K820x#14Complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Allianz 
Insurance Plc, as the insurer,  have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, 
Ill only refer to Allianz in this decision, rather than any other business. 
Background
Miss B bought  the policy  in 1994,  at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Bs store card application  had a section for PPI. It gave an overview  of what the policy 
was for and what it cost,  then gave the option to take PPI by ticking  a box and filling in some 
details, or to leave it by leaving  the section blank. The box for PPI was ticked  and Miss B 
filled in her name and date of birth to apply  for the policy. And she signed  the application to 
confirm her choices. So I think  that Allianz made  Miss B aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer remembered  doing so as the years  went on.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss B, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. They did have to give Miss B enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Allianz  gave Miss B about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Miss B chose to take out the policy,  which indicates 
she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And it 
looks like it couldve  been useful for Miss B in case she was off sick or lost her job.
While I understand Miss Bs friends or family mightve been willing to help, there was always 
the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And the PPI meant  she wouldnt have to 
ask anyone else to pay her store card if she fell on difficult times. Compared  to similar 
policies, this one offered  a relatively  higher benefit  at a lower  price. And it was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Miss B could  cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont 
think that better information about  the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN27685442Lastly, Miss B mentioned  there was a point  where  she might have been able to claim on the 
policy, but didnt.  It may still be possible for Miss B to make  a back-dated claim if she was 
eligible to claim and didnt. If shed like to do that, Miss B should get back in touch with 
Allianz. And if there  are issues with the back-dated claim, Miss B may be able to bring that to 
our service  as a separate  case  to this one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about the sale of this 
PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2768544