K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is a beneficiary of a group, private  medical  insurance with BUPA Insurance Limited. 
She complains that it declined her claim for robotic rehabilitation treatment. 
 
background
In March or April 2018, Mrs H had a stroke.  The date isnt entirely  clear  to me as one of the 
doctors treating  Mrs H refers to March 2018 but Mrs H refers to April 2018. I understand that 
Mrs H started  rehabilitation  treatment  in hospital, was discharged to community  
physiotherapy in May 2018 but then suffered seizures in June  and August 2018,  which  
delayed her rehabilitation. 
In September  2018, one of the doctors treating  Mrs H wrote  a letter in support of her wish to 
have privately funded,  stroke rehabilitation. BUPA authorised a total of 25 manual 
physiotherapy sessions starting in September 2018.  
In November 2018, Mr H met with a provider of specialist, robotic rehabilitation and had 
some preparatory work. Mrs H says that the provider applied  to BUPA  for intensive 
treatment costing £6,000. The provider couldnt fit Mrs H in for treatment until May 2019. 
Mrs H says that she called BUPA in November or December 2018 and it told her that it 
would call her back and let her know about  her claim but it didnt do so.
In May 2019, BUPA declined  her claim.  It said that Mrs Hs membership guide provides that 
it may pay for eligible treatment for rehabilitation in certain circumstances, which  dont arise  
here.  
Mrs H says that the provider gave her three  days of treatment and she wants the further  18 
days of treatment she agreed to. She says that shes too tired to have  treatment every  day 
and that a 42 day period for treatment  is unreasonable. Mrs H says that her therapy will be a 
year and a month after her stroke, not indefinitely. 
Mrs H says that she paid a non-refundable deposit  of £2,995  to the provider.  She says that 
the policy says that shell  get full funding , so she expects to get the full funding of £6,000.
Mrs H complains about BUPAs service, lack of compassion and its membership booklet. 
She wants BUPA to fund the specialist, robotic  treatment.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had acted 
unfairly in declining Mrs Hs claim.  Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator.  She said,  in 
summary:
She couldnt have  started rehabilitation within 42 days of her first treatment,  as she 
wasnt well enough  at that point.
Shed  previously had a contract with the same, specialist company  in a different 
location and BUPA  funded that.
Theres a year to get well after a stroke and she wasnt well enough to start 
rehabilitation before the beginning of 2019.
Ref: DRN21226492She asked BUPA  for permission for the rehabilitation over the phone  and it said that 
it would  get back  to her.
The specialist rehabilitation is very sought after and short of places, so she paid a 
deposit to secure a place. 
The membership certificate says paid  in full and that should  mean  what it says. 
She rang BUPA before booking the course with the rehabilitation specialists. She 
rang BUPA in February  and May 2019.
As there was no agreement between the parties, Mrs Hs complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont  doubt was and remains a very worrying  time 
into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. 
But Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of Mrs Hs complaint. 
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs H has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed  submissions to support the complaint.  Ive read all this carefully and 
taken it all into consideration when making my decision. However, I trust that she will not 
take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issue, that is, 
whether BUPA treated  her unfairly  in declining her claim.     
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the Mrs Hs membership, the relevant part of 
which says: 
Exclusion 9 Convalescence, rehabilitation  []
[]
Exception: We may, at our discretion,  pay for eligible treatment  for rehabilitation. By 
rehabilitation, we mean treatment which is aimed at restoring health or mobility or to allow 
you to live an independent life, such as after a stroke. We will only consider cases  where the 
rehabilitation;
is an integral part of in-patient treatment
starts  within 42 days from and including the date you first received that in-patient 
treatment, and
takes place  in a recognised facility.
You must have our written agreement before the rehabilitation starts and we need full 
clinical details from your consultant  before  we can give our decision. If we agree we pay 
for up to a maximum of 21 consecutive  days rehabilitation.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN21226493Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that BUPA  treated her unfairly.  I 
say that because:
The reference in Mrs Hs membership  certificate  to consultations and therapies  being 
paid in full doesnt mean that BUPA is required to authorise any and all claims. 
Mrs Hs claim is subject to her memberships terms and conditions.
BUPA has a discretion in relation to rehabilitation  treatment. I dont think  it acted  
unfairly in refusing  to exercise its discretion  in Mrs Hs favour. Thats because its 
conditions for considering rehabilitation treatment werent met here.
The robotic rehabilitation  treatment Mrs H wanted wasnt integral to her in-patient  
treatment. I understand that Mrs H was discharged from in-patient care several  
months before she sought the help of the specialist provider. 
The robotic rehabilitation  wasnt  set to start within 42 days  of Mrs H first receiving
in-patient treatment. I appreciate that Mrs H says she wasnt well enough  to start
the robotic rehabilitation treatment earlier and that the provider couldnt fit her in until 
well passed  that time limit. I dont think that means that BUPA  is at fault in failing to 
extend the time limit. 
BUPA says that it doesnt recognise the facility Mrs H asked for treatment at. Mrs H 
says that BUPA  funded  the same, specialist company in a different location.  I dont 
think that alters the outcome here because Mrs Hs claim doesnt meet BUPAs other 
conditions for considering rehabilitation treatment. 
Mrs H says that she found BUPAs membership  booklet confusing. I think that the 
provision in relation  to rehabilitation  treatment is clear.
BUPA has provided information about its contact  with Mrs H. Based on what  Ive 
seen, BUPAs records dont  support Mrs Hs recollection that it didnt return her call 
when she asked  for the rehabilitation over the phone. And its records dont show that 
Mrs H called BUPA about this before  May 2019. So, I cant  say, on balance,  that 
BUPA delayed in responding  to Mrs Hs request for specialist,  robotic rehabilitation.  
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but, for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont uphold  the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2122649