K822xComplaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background 
Mrs D was contacted  by a company, Ill refer to it as H, which  supplied and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a meeting,  Mrs D agreed  to enter into a contract  with H for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system. To fund this, she also agreed to enter into a 10 year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mrs D made  a claim under section 75 (s75)  of the CCA. She said that she had been told by 
H that the solar  panel system  would be self-funded  and that her monthly loan repayments 
would be off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT)  income. But this hadnt happened. Instead, the 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher.
Mrs D had also been unable to register for the FIT income and this had significantly affected 
the financial benefits she had been  able to receive  from her solar panel  system.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook agreed  that the benefits of the solar panel  system had 
been misrepresented  to Mrs D. To put things  right it had calculated the potential savings to 
her from the panels over the term of the loan. It then offered to restructure  the loan so that 
she would  pay no more  than this. When it did this, it took into account that Mrs D wasnt  in 
receipt of FIT payments.
Mrs D didnt accept the offer from Shawbrook and referred her complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked into what had happened. He felt that the offer from Shawbrook  
was fair. Shawbrook also offered £100 for any trouble and upset caused  which  the 
investigator thought  was fair.
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators view of her complaint. In summary, she said that the 
credit agreement that had been  completed was a joint application but only had her 
information on and raised concerns about  the affordability of the loan. To put things  right she 
wanted the solar  panels removed from her home and to have all the payments she had 
made returned to her.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook  or Mrs D dispute that H misrepresented  the benefits  of the solar panel 
system. As a result, this decision  will only deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ref: DRN28610272Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  for Shawbrook to arrange  for the 
solar panels  to be removed from Mrs Ds home and refund all the payments she has made  
towards her home. Im not satisfied  that this would  be fair or proportionate. Rather I think the 
fair outcome here is to put Mrs D in a position  where  the solar panels  are self-funding over 
the term of the loan,  as she had been led to believe. By allowing her to keep the solar  panel 
system, Im satisfied  that she will benefit from lower electricity bills moving forward.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology has also been 
shared with Mrs D and is based on the actual performance and estimated  future  
performance of her solar  panel system.
Mrs D has explained to Shawbrook and this service that she was unable to register her solar 
panel system to receive the FIT payments. When Shawbrook has calculated the total 
benefits that Mrs D is expected to receive  over the term of the loan it hasnt included  any FIT 
benefits. This is in line with what I would expect, as I wouldnt consider it fair for Shawbrook 
to take account  of a benefit  that Mrs D hasnt been and will not be in receipt of when 
calculating fair compensation.
Having considered the assumptions that Shawbrook has used to calculate  its offer to Mrs D, 
Im satisfied that they provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating  fair compensation.
Mrs D has said that the loan application should have been a joint application, but it only has 
her details and signature and therefore  it wasnt set up correctly.
Shawbrook has provided this service with a copy of the loan application and subsequent 
credit agreement and a copy of this has been shared with Mrs D. The loan application  form 
is called  a joint application. Ive noted that it only contains Mrs Ds details and she is the 
only person to have  signed it. She is also the only person named on the credit agreement.
Taking this into account, whilst I can appreciate that Mrs D may have thought  it was a joint 
application, I cant conclude that Shawbrook have  incorrectly set up the loan agreement.  
Mrs D has said that the loan wouldnt have been affordable based on her income alone. Ive 
considered the information that was provided on the loan application, including  Mrs D 
income and any outgoings, as well as the underwriting criteria that Shawbrook used.
The information from the underwriter shows that Mrs D had a good payment history and that 
there was no indication that the loan was unaffordable. 
Taking everything I have  discussed above  into account, Im satisfied that the offer from 
Shawbrook to make Mrs Ds solar panel  system self-funding over the term of the original 
loan is fair.
Shawbrook has calculated that by making the solar  panel  system  self-funding,  Mrs D has 
been paying more than she should  have done  each month. It has given her the following 
three options as to how she would like the overpayments to be used:
1.the overpayments are used to clear the outstanding balance of the loan and the 
remaining amount  is refunded  to Mrs D,
2.any overpayments are returned  to Mrs D and she continues to make her current 
monthly loan repayment resulting in her loan finishing  early, or;
Ref: DRN286102733.any overpayments are returned  to Mrs D and she pays a new,  lower  monthly  
repayment until the end of the loan term. 
If Mrs D accepts my decision, she should  indicate  on the acceptance form which  option she 
wishes to accept.
Im satisfied that Mrs D will have  experienced some trouble and upset when she realised she 
was unable to register her panels  for FIT payments and that her system wasnt self-funding 
and consequently Ill make an award  of £100 for this.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
(a)allow Mrs D to keep the solar panel system,
(b)estimate the potential  savings to Mrs D over the 10 year term of the loan and rework  
it so she pays no more  than this. Where possible, it should use Mrs Ds electricity 
bills to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of the settlement,
(d)allow Mrs D to decide how shed  like her overpayments to be used, using the three 
options described above, and;
(e)pay Mrs D £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2861027