K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made  on the 
parts and garage elements of his roadside  assistance insurance policy.  He wants  it to cover 
his repair  costs.
background
A rear light on Mr Cs car wasnt working,  so he made a claim for its repair.  But Acromas 
declined the claim  as it said lamps werent covered under the policy. 
Mr C disagreed as he said the fault was with the circuit board for the LED lighting. He didnt 
think this was excluded  under the policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
lamp exclusion  would  reasonably apply to any form of lighting, including LED.  She thought 
the circuit  board and the LED light array were  integral and so Acromas had reasonably  
declined cover under the exclusion.
Mr C replied that he thought Acromas  was unfairly avoiding the claim. He thought lamps 
wouldnt include LED lighting.  He thought Acromas should pay for the repair  as the circuit  
board had failed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Cs policy states  that lamps  are excluded from cover. Acromas said this 
would apply to any sort of lighting, whether a traditional bulb or an LED cluster.  I think  thats 
fair and reasonable as I wouldnt expect a policy to provide exhaustive definitions  of terms 
and I think the common  understanding of lamps would apply.  
Acromas said it declined  the claim as the actual fault was with the circuit board that was 
integral with the LED cluster. It said the part couldnt be bought  separately.  It said the claim 
was excluded as a repair would require purchase of the entire light cluster.
Mr C thought this was unfair as he thought all LED units were  sealed units with integral 
circuit boards. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. But I think that as the circuit board is within the lighting 
unit, then its reasonable to regard it as part of the lighting system. This would then fall within 
the definition of a lamp. And therefore I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for Acromas 
to apply the exclusion and decline the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN27089542Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2708954