K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  with how The Governor and Company  of the Bank  of Ireland 
(Bank of Ireland) handled their request to extend their mortgage term and switch to a new 
interest rate product.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage with Bank  of Ireland in July 2007  (having ported their 
existing deal across  from a previous mortgage with the bank). They  borrowed £114,250 on 
an interest only basis, over a term of 13 years  and five months.
In 2018 and with the term approaching  its end, Mr R contacted Bank of Ireland with a view to 
extending it and taking out a new fixed rate deal. They wanted to keep their whole  mortgage  
on an interest only basis, but the bank declined that request   and required part of the 
balance to be switched  to a repayment basis.
In January 2019, Bank of Ireland issued  Mr and Mrs R a new mortgage offer. This said that 
the term would run for a further nine years. Interest would  be charged at a new fixed  rate of 
3.59% until 31 October 2023. And while  the majority of the remaining mortgage  balance 
(quoted as £113,645)  would remain on an interest only basis,  £10,000 would operate  on 
repayment terms.
Mr and Mrs R went ahead  with the changes,  but raised a complaint. They  said the offer 
wasnt in line with the discussions theyd had with Bank of Ireland  in particular, theyd  
wanted the whole mortgage to remain on an interest only basis in order  to keep their 
payments down. They were also concerned with some of the figures  quoted by 
Bank of Ireland  within the mortgage  paperwork, which  seemed  to suggest that overpayments 
theyd made  hadnt  been  taken into account.
Bank of Ireland  said it had only been  willing to extend the mortgage term on the basis that 
part of the balance was switched to a repayment  basis. And it said it had advised Mr R of 
that during the application.  While accepting that some of the figures quoted  in the initial  
paperwork had been incorrect,  it said they had been corrected in subsequent  
documentation. This, it said, was due to human error  for which it offered Mr and Mrs R £50 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and referred  their concerns to us. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint,  but she didnt think Bank of Ireland  needed to do anything  further.  
Having listened  to recordings of Mr Rs calls with the bank, she found that it had explained 
that it wasnt willing to extend the mortgage  on purely interest  only terms  and that Mr R 
had agreed to convert part of the balance  to repayment. Those terms had then been  clearly 
explained in an illustration and, subsequently,  the new mortgage offer. While there  had been  
a mistake within the original illustration, she thought this had been  quickly rectified  so she 
thought the £50 already  offered by the bank was fair compensation for any trouble caused.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators  view. Mr R maintained that hed not been  made  
aware of the need to switch part of the mortgage  to a repayment  basis at the outset  
contrary to what was said in one of the banks letters  and that this had only been revealed 
when the application was assessed. So he asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN24511792my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Rs complaint last month.  Id reached the 
same conclusions overall as our investigator, in that I thought  Bank of Ireland had made a 
fair offer to settle  the complaint. Bu as my reasons were slightly different, I gave both parties 
the chance to respond with any final comments or further evidence  before I issued a final 
decision.
On the lending decision, I said:
Very broadly speaking,  it was up to Bank  of Ireland to decide the terms on which it was 
willing to extend  the term of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. The bank wasnt  obliged just to 
agree whatever they asked for  but Id expect it to have  given  the request fair 
consideration. So Ive thought about whether it did so.
In this respect, Ive reviewed how Bank  of Ireland  assessed Mr and Mrs Rs original 
request that the mortgage remain solely on interest only terms. I can see that it 
declined the application in line with its own lending  criteria,  as it was entitled  to do. So I 
think its treating Mr and Mrs R fairly   in line with how it treats its other  customers in 
similar circumstances.
The current  regulations allow  lenders  some  flexibility in applying its usual affordability 
assessments to requests like Mr and Mrs Rs (where an interest only term is being 
extended). So had it been in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests to keep  the mortgage solely 
on interest only terms, then I might well have expected Bank  of Ireland to have offered 
that. But I dont  think thats the case here.  I understand that Mr and Mrs R are planning 
to sell the property  and use the proceeds  to repay the mortgage  when  the term ends. 
By repaying  some of the capital over the coming  years, theyre reducing the risks that 
strategy entails (such  as a fall in the value of the property). I think  thats sensible, 
particularly given the level of equity they have  and as they can afford to do so 
(especially as its still less than what they were  paying previously). So I dont think it 
wouldve been better for them  to have kept things as they were. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think Bank of Ireland did anything wrong in declining  
Mr and Mrs Rs request  to extend the mortgage on the existing interest only terms. 
On how Bank of Ireland communicated its decision to Mr and Mrs R, I said:
Mr R is unhappy that in its letter of 30 November 2018, Bank of Ireland said that 
changing from an interest only to a part repayment basis was discussed during the call 
on 17 September.
Ive listened to a recording  of that call. The possibility of switching to a part and part 
basis was discussed,  but only in general terms. Mr R made  it clear  that his preference 
was to keep the whole mortgage on an interest  only basis, but that he and Mrs R 
would consider a part and part mortgage  if that wasnt possible. The application  
proceeded on the full interest  only basis.
Ref: DRN24511793Thats how Bank of Ireland  summarised the call in the letter  in question:
Changing from a full Interest  Only basis to part interest only part 
repayment was also discussed but you made  it clear  that a full 
Interest Only basis was how you wished to proceed.
I think that was accurate   so I dont think Bank of Ireland did anything  wrong here.  
The application did initially  proceed  on a full interest  only basis, and thats  how the 
bank described  it. Its underwriting department subsequently declined  that request,  as it 
was entitled to for the reasons Ive explained above.
More widely, Ive heard from subsequent call recordings  that the bank confirmed its 
position on requiring  part of the mortgage to be switched  to a repayment  basis  to Mr R 
over the phone. As he agreed  to that (albeit  reluctantly), paperwork was issued on that 
basis. Mr and Mrs R were then sent an illustration and offer that set out the terms on 
which Bank of Ireland  was willing to extend the term and switch their rate. 
So Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs R accurate information about  the 
terms of the new arrangement, enabling them to make an informed decision as to how 
to proceed.
And on errors within the paperwork, I said:
Mr and Mrs R were also understandably concerned to note that their mortgage  
balance was quoted incorrectly in the mortgage  illustration dated 5 December 2018, 
where it was said to be £114,247.
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs R wouldve been concerned initially to find that the 
balance was higher than it shouldve  been   particularly as this seemed  to correlate to 
the amount of the overpayments theyd  been  making over the years. Fortunately 
though, that was quickly identified as an error   and rectified. A further illustration   
produced the following month  contained the correct balance  of £113,645, as did the 
subsequent mortgage offer a few days later.
Bank of Ireland  has already  offered  Mr and Mrs R £50 to make  up for any upset they 
were caused. I think thats fair.
Theres nothing to suggest that the overpayments werent correctly  applied at the time; 
this appears to have  been a purely administrative error when the new mortgage 
documentation was produced. Bank of Ireland has said this was down to human  error. 
Ive no reason to doubt that, and I dont think any more information  about what 
happened would lead me to a different conclusion.
Bank of Ireland  accepted  my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs R didnt respond.
Ref: DRN24511794my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having  sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So this decision 
confirms those findings, as set out above.
my final decision
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland has already made an offer to pay £50 to 
settle this complaint, which  I think is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland should pay Mr and Mrs R £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2451179