K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid his travel  
insurance claim following  an accident abroad. 
background
Mr A took out a policy provided by ERGO, online via a price comparison website.
Unfortunately, Mr A had an accident while on holiday and contacted ERGO to make  a claim.
ERGO said the claim wasnt covered because Mr A hadnt told it about his pre-existing
medical condition  when he bought the policy and, if he had, it wouldnt have offered him
cover.
Mr A responded to ERGO  to say he declared he had a pre-existing medical  condition  (which
he has had since birth)  during the online sales process but, because of the answers he gave
to the follow-up questions, he wasnt asked to complete a full medical  screening  to declare
his specific condition. Mr A said hed answered no to a follow-up question about  specialist
consultations in the past two years because  the only consultation hed had related to an
application for a government  payment.
ERGO said Mr A hadnt made an accurate representation when buying his policy  so the
claim wasnt covered and, unhappy, Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr A had failed to take reasonable care when answering the
questions asked at the time the policy was sold. So, she recommended that ERGO should
accept Mr As claim and pay him £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he
experienced. ERGO  didnt agree.
Mr A has since provided additional information about the consultation he had in relation to
the government  payment.  ERGO has seen and commented on this information.
I made  a provisional decision  about  this complaint. In it, I said;
The principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) are designed to make  sure both insurers  and consumers get an appropriate 
remedy if a consumer makes a misrepresentation when buying  insurance.
ERGO is declining this claim on the basis that Mr A made a misrepresentation when he
bought the policy. So, I think its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set out in CIDRA
to the circumstances of this case.
CIDRA applies only where there has been what is called a qualifying  misrepresentation. A
qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which the insurer asks about, and the insurer  would have acted differently
if the consumer  hadnt  misrepresented those facts.
Ref: DRN28244132A factor to be taken into account in deciding whether or not a consumer has taken
reasonable care includes the clarity  and specificity of questions the consumer is asked.
Mr A was asked:
Do you or anyone in your party have, or have you or anyone  in your party had any
pre-existing medical conditions?
Mr A says he answered yes to this question.
The answer to the next question Mr A was asked determined whether or not he was taken
through a medical screening to declare his specific pre-existing medical condition. This
question said:
Have you or anyone  in your party been prescribed medication, received  treatment  or
had a consultation with a doctor or hospital specialist for any medical  condition  in the
past 2 years?
Mr A answered no and was therefore able to go ahead and buy the insurance  policy.  If Mr A
had answered  yes to the above question hed have been taken to a screen  asking further
questions about  his specific medical  condition.  On answering these further questions, Mr A
then wouldnt have  been offered this insurance policy with ERGO.
So, what  I need to decide is whether I think Mr A failed to take reasonable care when
answering the question in the way he did.
The consultation in dispute involves an appointment, including a bone density scan, which
Mr A had with a specialist  nurse around  five months  before  buying  the policy.
Leaving this consultation aside, Mr A says he manages his own lifestyle  as it relates to his
pre-existing medical condition. Mr A says he has not seen a doctor about this medical
condition since 2015. And there is no mention in his medical records of any consultations
with his doctor about this condition in the two years before  the policy was bought.
Based on this evidence,  Mr As underlying  medical  condition seems to me to have been
stable in the two years  before he bought the policy. I think  this is further supported  by the
specialist nurses comments that Mr A told her ...since a rib fracture in 2015, he has been
generally well with no reports of any new fractures.
The appointment with the specialist nurse was arranged in relation  to an application made by
Mr A for a government payment; an application which Mr A has now evidenced. ERGO has
said Mr A wouldnt have  needed this consultation were  it not for his underlying  medical
condition. But I dont  think its reasonable to conclude the consultation was for the purpose 
either wholly or in part - of monitoring or reviewing  Mr As health.  Im satisfied, based  on the
evidence Ive seen,  that the consultation was arranged purely  for the purpose  of Mr As
application for a government  payment.
Ref: DRN28244133The standard of care required  under  CIDRA is that of a reasonable consumer. Ive taken into
account everything Mr A has said, the content  of the medical records available to me and the
circumstances under which Im satisfied  the consultation with the specialist nurse  was
arranged. Having done so, I dont think a reasonable consumer would  have realised this
consultation was something ERGO would have wanted to know about.
ERGO says given the severity of Mr As condition, it would be clear  to a layperson that he
ought to have declared it. But Mr A wasnt asked at the point  of sale whether he used a
mobility aid. And under  the sales process  he was taken through, Mr A also wasnt asked
what his specific condition  was or how long hed had the condition  for  he was asked about
consultations in the last two years and thats  the question which  Ive considered.
ERGO has commented that Mr A was having ongoing reviews for his medical condition
every two years. I understand the specialist nurse stated Mr A had become lost to follow-up
following his review appointment in 2015  and went on to note plans  to review Mr A again in
two years time with repeat bone  density measurements. But theres no mention  in Mr As
medical records of any review in between  2015  and the consultation with the specialist nurse
in 2018. So, I dont think the evidence  which Ive seen  shows  Mr A was having ongoing
reviews at two-year intervals.
This means  I dont  think Mr A made  a qualifying misrepresentation  under CIDRA, so I dont
think its fair or reasonable for ERGO to refuse  to pay his claim.
I think Mr A has experienced upset  and stress as a result of ERGOs decision to turn down
his claim.  So, I intend to recommend that ERGO should pay him compensation to reflect 
this.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and said he had nothing further to add. ERGO  
said it strongly disagreed  with my provisional  decision  for reasons  it had previously set out 
by email.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already considered and addressed the arguments raised  by ERGO in the email it has 
referred to. So, as neither party had provided  any additional evidence nor made  any new 
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
Ref: DRN28244134my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint.
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG must;
accept Mr As claim subject to any applicable  policy limits and/or excesses;
pay Mr A interest at 8% simple per annum on any payments  which  are owed to him,
from the date Mr A paid any relevant bills until the date payment is made1;
pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If ERGO Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much it has taken  off. It should also give Mr A a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2824413