K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF),  has not been of 
satisfactory quality and was mis-sold to him.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BPF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BPF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr P. The car here 
was around seven and a half years  old and had already completed about 61,000 miles. I 
think a reasonable  person would expect  some wear and tear.
Mr P had a short term right to reject  the car if anything was wrong with it when he took 
receipt and he reported  that in the first thirty days  as he did here. Im persuaded that there  
was something wrong with this car as Ive seen an email sent the day after Mr P took receipt  
of the car that explains that the fog light warning  lamp was illuminated.  Im aware that the 
MOT and inspection of the car was delayed, and that the business  didnt see this failure, but 
it would  make no sense  for Mr P to report a fault after hed collected the car and for it not to 
be present. The dealership accepted  that they hadnt MOTd the car and the MOT  has never  
been renewed. So, I think its most likely  there was a fault with the car when it was supplied 
to Mr P. He should therefore have been allowed  to reject the car when he first asked BPF in 
November 2018.
Ref: DRN21126392Ive reviewed the MOT records and can see that Mr P hasnt  had the cars MOT renewed 
and it expired in April 2019. He provided  proof that hed barely  completed  any mileage in the 
car when  he responded to our adjudicators questions in June 2019. Its clear he wont have 
been able to complete any further mileage  as the car is not MOTd. So, I think  BPF should 
refund all the finance instalments hes paid as I cant see hes not had much, if any, use of 
the vehicle hes been financing. BPF should  add interest to this refund as Mr P has been  
deprived of any instalments hes paid towards  the agreement.
BPF should also refund Mr Ps deposit and interest  should also be added to this refund for 
the same  reasons.
I think its clear  that Mr P has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to return the 
car to the dealership; its clear  the MOT wasnt completed when it should have been  and 
there were unacceptable delays arranging it when one had been  promised  from inception.  In 
those circumstances  I think  BPF should  compensate  Mr P for his experiences  and I think  
£250 is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement at no further cost to Mr P;
collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
refund  Mr Ps deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
refund  all finance instalments Mr P has paid and add 8% simple interest per year to 
that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr P £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove the agreement from Mr Ps credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112639