K822xcomplaint
Ms G complains that Police Mutual Assurance Society Limited  (PMAS) provided incorrect 
information to her that prevented her from cancelling her mortgage  protection policy. 
background 
Ms G took out her policy  in 1996, as a condition of a mortgage she was taking out at that 
time. (Ms G has made a complaint about  the mortgage provider imposing  the condition,  
which has been dealt  with separately). 
Ms G paid off the mortgage in 1999.  Some years later in 2004 she approached PMAS to 
cancel the associated life policy. She was incorrectly told that as the policy  was assigned 
she would  need  to contact the mortgage provider to do so. This was incorrect  as only a 
notice of interest  not an assignment  had been  recorded and this wouldnt have 
prevented PMAS from cancelling the policy. 
The policy wasnt cancelled and Ms G approached  PMAS again in 2007. At this point she 
was told she would  have  to put in writing a request to cancel. Theres no record of this 
happening and it was not until 2018 that Mrs G cancelled the policy, following which she 
made her complaint  to PMAS. 
PMAS apologised  for misinforming Ms G in 2004.  It offered her a refund of the premiums 
shed continued  to pay, plus interest, up to the point in 2007 when it felt she was given 
correct information  and couldve cancelled the policy. It offered a total sum of £350 to also 
include an amount  to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Ms G didnt accept this, as she felt all the premiums, up to the point of cancellation in 2018  
should be refunded. She referred the complaint to this service.   
Our investigator was satisfied that Ms G had been  misinformed in 2004,  so effectively denied 
the opportunity  to cancel the policy. But he felt that in 2007  PMAS had provided the correct 
information  that Ms G  was required to put the request  in writing  and so it wasnt  fair to 
expect PMAS to refund  the premiums shed  paid beyond that point. So he felt that PMAS 
offer was fair  although he confirmed  that the interest to be added to the premium  refunds 
for the period 2004 to 2007 should be at a rate of 8% simple, not the 4% PMAS had 
suggested. PMAS  agreed  to that change. 
Ms G didnt accept the investigators view. She felt it couldnt be shown that she hadnt 
written to PMAS after the 2007 call. And she also didnt  accept  that she ought to have 
continued to be aware of the premiums continuing  to be taken from her account, as they 
wouldve been effectively  hidden with a large number of other deductions that were taken for 
other insurances, etc, over the same  period.  She felt that the fact that shed received no 
further contact from PMAS following the 2007 call supported her position that the policy  had 
been cancelled,  or that it was at least reasonable for her to think  that it had been. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28707692Its not disputed  that PMAS made  an error when Ms G called in 2004 to cancel the policy.  As 
noted, it gave  advice relating to an assigned policy, as opposed to one where there was 
simply a notice of interest. PMAS  has accepted  its error and offered to make  a refund of 
premiums to Ms G. 
What remains in dispute is whether that refund should be up until the point that it appears 
PMAS gave her correct instructions  in 2007  or until 2018 when the policy was eventually 
cancelled.
Having looked  at the evidence I think its reasonable that PMAS has limited the refund of 
premiums to the period to 2007. While  theres no recording of the phone call at that time, the 
note on PMAS computer  system said Mem looking to cancel  XN plan - she will write in to 
request this."
I accept this is a very brief note and, as such, open to some interpretation. But I think  its 
reasonable to conclude,  on balance,  that it was intended to record  that Ms G had made 
contact and was told that she would have  to write in to cancel the policy. 
PMAS has confirmed that cancellations  prior to 2010 did have  to be put in writing,  so in my 
view it would appear that Ms G was, more likely than not, correctly  informed. So, from that 
point on the responsibility to cancel the policy fell to Ms G. 
I note what Ms G has said about  the possibility that she actually did write in to PMAS and the 
letter was maybe  lost. But without clear evidence  that this took place, such as a copy of the 
letter, I dont think it would  be fair to conclude that was the most likely circumstance. 
Ive noted also what Ms G has said about  there  being no further communication from PMAS  
after 2007, leading  her to conclude that the policy had been cancelled.  But, as the 
investigator noted, there is usually no ongoing  communication from businesses in respect  of 
term assurance policies  like this, as  unlike a bank account or similar  nothing  changes 
during the course of the term. 
Also, Ms G wouldve been aware  that shed received no confirmation of cancellation from 
PMAS following the 2007, which wouldve been  usual practice. I accept that given that the 
monthly policy premium was a relatively small monthly amount, taken alongside  several 
other deductions, that Ms G may not have noticed its continued payment. But I nevertheless 
think that its reasonable to expect her to have double-checked that cancellation had 
definitely occurred  after her call in 2007, particularly  given  the issues  of 2004.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2870769