K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a Total Mortgage Protection Policy  (TMPP)  
by Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs M took some  further  borrowing on their Halifax  mortgage, which theyd  
originally taken out in 2000. This new borrowing brought  their total mortgage  balance up to 
just over £116,000.  This was on a part interest-only, part repayment basis  with the interest  
only element  around £28,000  protected by some endowment policies. 
The TMPP recommended  as a result  of the new borrowing provided life cover  for a term of 
22 years  on a level term basis  just over £10,000  for Mr M and just over £66,000 for Mrs M.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs M moved  their mortgage to a new provider. But the TMPP continued up 
until recently. Halifaxs failure to cancel  the policy in 2010 forms part of the complaint.
Halifax didnt hold either aspect of the complaint. It felt the recommendation of the TMPP 
was broadly suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs. It also noted that theyd  been  made  aware in 
2010 that the cover would continue unless action  was taken.  
Our investigator also felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He did note a couple of potential  
issues with the recommendation;  that level term assurance (LTA) rather  than more  
appropriate decreasing term assurance  (DTA) had been sold and that the term of the TMPP 
was a year shorter that the mortgage  term. But overall, he felt that Mr and Mrs M had 
probably paid less for the cover than if it had better matched the mortgage, primarily 
because the sums assured were low in comparison with the borrowing. In effect, theyd  been  
underinsured. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They reiterated  their concerns that the policy  had been mis-sold, 
highlighting that theyd been led to believe  that they had to take it out in order for the 
mortgage application to be successful. They felt that insufficient  consideration had been 
given to other cover and protection  they held and the financial support they couldve been 
given in the event of either of their deaths. 
As no agreement could be reached, the maters been referred to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M maintain they were told they had to take out the TMPP in 
order to be granted  the additional  borrowing. While I note their recollections, theres no 
documentary evidence  to support this and Halifax have confirmed that the TMPP wouldnt 
have been a condition of lending. 
It may be that the adviser  was very persuasive  about the benefits of protecting  the borrowing 
 it is, after all, a prudent  course of action  but, on balance, I dont think I can make a 
finding that Mr and Mrs M were misled  by Halifax in this respect.
Ref: DRN25177982Turning to the general suitability of the policy,  its not unusual  to make  a recommendation of 
dedicated cover for a mortgage, even when  other  types of cover  or protection   employment 
benefits, potential  family  support, etc  exist at the time of the advice. 
This type of alternative protection is rarely considered appropriate to rely upon because  it 
cant be guaranteed to remain  in place for what can be a lengthy mortgage term. I note what 
Mr M has said about the stability of his employment and related protections. But 
nevertheless, no-one can know with certainty what the position might  be after 20 or more 
years. 
In any event, the differing levels of cover recommended  to Mr and Mrs M suggests that 
some sort of consideration was given to existing provision.  It may be that they had some  
policies already in place.  There were  certainly the endowment policies supporting the 
interest-only part of the mortgage. So theres  every chance some other policies had been put 
in place earlier that the adviser felt would appropriately service the purpose of protecting,  in 
part, the new borrowing. 
In respect of the issues highlighted  by the investigator  the LTA/DTA issue  and the slightly 
too short term  I can see that there is the potential  here for Mr and Mrs M to have paid too 
much. It seems  likely that a DTA wouldve been  cheaper. But, that said,  premiums for a 
longer term policy  wouldve been a bit higher.  In all, I dont think theres sufficient  evidence  to 
support a finding, on balance, that Halifax acted incorrectly. There  may have been aspects 
of the advice that couldve been recommended differently or better. But I dont think  this can 
be concluded with sufficient certainty.
On the matter of the TMPP not being  cancelled in 2010, letters  sent by Halifax in May and 
June of that year made clear that although the mortgage had been paid off the policy would  
continue. The June letter  expressly  said If you want to end this plan you must contact us in 
writing or on the telephone number above. The letters were correctly  addressed  so I think 
its fair to conclude, on balance, that they were  received by Mr and Mrs M. And, as such, I 
dont think I can hold Halifax  responsible for the policy  continuing on after 2010.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2517798