K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with a 
number of different  loans  between 2006 and 2009. Mr K says Glasgow Credit Union Ltd  
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen some of the paperwork  that was completed around the time of each  sale.    
In particular, the demands and needs  form from each sale. On this document,  Mr K 
has signed for each  PPI policy to accept the recommendation that Glasgow Credit  
Union Ltd was making. So Im satisfied that Mr K consented to taking out each policy.
Ive also considered if Mr K would  reasonably  have  been aware that he had a choice 
about PPI. As an example, for the November  2008  sale, Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ks 
loan agreement. On this document  there  are Yes. and No. options for PPI. 
Unfortunately the way the document has been  scanned, the margins of the document 
are missing,  so I cant safely say if there was an option to indicate by ticking or 
crossing next to the required option for PPI. 
But I can safely say that the November 2008  loan agreement presented  PPI as 
optional. Mr K has then signed the separate Demands and needs statement to 
agree to take PPI, I think its more likely than not that he indicated  that he wanted PPI 
Although Mr K has said that he was told that he wouldnt get the borrowing unless he 
took PPI, Ive not seen strong  evidence  to support what hes said.  Ive also noted 
what Mr K has said about being bullied into taking PPI. 
But pressure can be subjective  and what feels like pressure to one person may not to 
another. As this was a sale where Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd were making a 
recommendation to take PPI, I think its possible that the adviser said that Mr K 
should take PPI. But this is very different to them saying that he had to take PPI.
On balance, based on what Ive seen for each sale, I think  that its more likely  than 
not that Glasgow  Credit  Union Ltd presented the PPI as optional  before getting       
Mr Ks consent to take it out.
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd recommended the PPI to Mr K so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for him. Mr K has told us about a pre-existing medical condition 
(PEMC) that he had at the time of each sale. 
This policy excluded  PEMCs. But based on what Mr K has told us about  his PEMC, 
that he doesnt take medication to manage it and hasnt had time of work because  of 
it, I dont  think that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr K.
Ref: DRN23577082I think that the chances of Mr K needing to claim for the PEMC  were relatively low 
and that hed still want to be covered for all the other  conditions that might mean he 
was unwell and unable to work for potentially  a lot longer
Based on what Ive seen  and been  told about  his circumstances around the time 
these policies were  sold, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was 
suitable and the policy was right for Mr K. 
For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Glasgow Credit Union Ltd gave Mr K about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover and I dont 
think that Mr K has lost out because of anything that Glasgow  Credit  Union Ltd did 
wrong. 
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said - including what hes said about our adjudicator  
basing their entire decision  on the level of commission. 
To be clear, in this particular case Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has told us that the commission 
for Mr Ks relevant policies policy was less than half of what  he paid for each premium. 
Weve looked  at how Glasgow Credit Union  Ltd has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ks commission  was less than half the cost of the 
policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr K back 
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
However, this is only one of the considerations that Ive made  when coming to my decision. 
As Ive outlined - for the reasons above, I dont think that this policy was mis-sold.  I think  its 
more likely than not that Mr K agreed to take PPI - understanding that he had a choice. 
Although Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd may not have done everything exactly  as they should  
have, I dont think that Mr K has been  treated unfairly or lost out as result. 
So these points dont  change my decision.  My decision  deals  with the six loans  taken out 
between April 2006 and April 2009 and not any before  or after this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
Ref: DRN23577083ombudsman
Ref: DRN2357708