K820x#14complaint
Mr N says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a single premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy with a loan.
background
In 2000 Mr N took out a loan over a 36-month term with HSBC.  Its unclear as to how the 
sale took place  but, at the same time, it sold him a single premium  PPI policy. The cost of 
the premium was added  to the loan and attracted  interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr N disagreed,  so the case  
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ns case. 
HSBC had to explain  to Mr N that the PPI was optional and get his agreement  to take it. I 
cant say for sure what happened since HSBC doesnt have much  information from the time 
of the sale. Although I dont find that surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. 
Instead, HSBCs provided sample  documents it says are the same  or similar to the ones 
Mr N would have seen  around the time of the sale regardless of how it took place. These  
include a sample  CREDITOR PROTECTION DECLARATION  which asked the customer to 
sign separately to confirm theyd decided to take PPI. I think its likely the documents  Mr N 
would have seen  were the same  as the sample or similar.
Overall, I think HSBC  would have made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional  and that hed 
have agreed to take it out before it was added.
Ive assessed  this complaint on the basis HSBC  recommended  PPI to Mr N. That meant  it 
should have looked into whether its recommendation was suitable  for him. I dont know  if 
HSBC did that but I think the recommendation was suitable in any case because:
From  what Ive seen of his circumstances,  Mr N was eligible for the policy.  And he 
wasnt affected by the main policy exclusions  or restrictions. 
The policy would have paid the loan repayments  for up to 12 months if Mr N had lost 
his job. And it would potentially have paid disability  benefits  up to the end of the loan. 
Mr N wouldnt  have received enhanced  sick pay or redundancy  pay from his 
employer and didnt  have any other  means  of making his repayments if he wasnt  
working. So I think the policy offered him valuable protection.
The policy didnt offer a proportional  refund  of the premium if the loan was cancelled  
early. That meant  that the policy was relatively  inflexible, but theres nothing  to show  
me Mr N was likely  to repay the loan early when he took it out. So I dont think  this 
feature meant the policy was unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN23100102HSBC also had to give Mr N enough information  for him to decide if the policy was suitable. 
Its not clear exactly what information  HSBC  gave Mr N, or how well that was explained. But, 
even if HSBC didnt  tell Mr N everything  it should  have,  for the same  reasons I think  the PPI 
was right for him, I dont think better information  would have stopped him from buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Ns lost out because of how HSBC sold him 
the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2310010