K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained about Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI). It 
provided an insurance backed guarantee they were given when they had a solid roof 
conservatory installed at their home.
 
background
Mr and Mrs N had an installation completed and were given documents stating the roof and 
any replaced glazing were  guaranteed. When they had problems with the roof and the trader  
had ceased trading they contacted the insurer. They were  told that solid roofs  werent 
covered. That the cover  was only applicable to UPVC roofs and their component  parts. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy.  They  felt the policy had been  mis-sold and that GPI should 
have checked  that their installation met the terms of the guarantee provided. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. He noted the terms 
of the cover  and explained it wasnt up to GPI to check each  installation  it offered cover for. It 
was up to the installer to give GPI the correct information. He explained that GPI hadnt sold 
the guarantee on an advised basis.
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy. They asked for an ombudsmans opinion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this causes  Mr and Mrs N, Im not minded to uphold their complaint. 
GPI sells guarantees to installers. These guarantees are then passed on by the installer to 
their client.  And GPI is entitled to rely on what the installer tells it about  the cover  it is looking 
to obtain. It doesnt  have  to check that out  just like a home insurer  wouldnt visit a 
policyholders home  to check what they had said they wanted cover for. 
Further, GPI is correct in what it says about  the cover. The cover  is for UPVC conservatory  
roofs. Not those of solid construction. So, the fault that Mr and Mrs N have with their solid 
roof isnt something  that the guarantee provided by GPI offers cover against. Therefore,  Im 
satisfied that GPIs decline of Mr and Mrs Ns claim is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Guarantee Protection 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2208306