K820x#14complaint
Ms E says Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading  as Legal and General, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms E bought the policy  in 1998 at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in a meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms E for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £400 a month towards Ms Es mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £24.75  a month.  
At the time,  Ms E was employed  as a clerical officer. She has told us she was entitled  to sick 
pay and redundancy pay from her employer. She also says she had around £5,000 in 
savings. Ms E has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  
Ms Es representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Es representative says:
Legal and General  failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms E wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Es 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Legal and General 
should have told Ms E about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Legal and General should  
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms E and 
the impact they would have had on her chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN23723092Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Es. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Legal and General. That means 
the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer  Credit  Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Legal and General at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code 
Ref: DRN23723093and these other publications  into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Es case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Legal and General was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Ms Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Legal and General  gave advice, whether it advised Ms E with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Legal and General gave Ms E sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information 
to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms E, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms E suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms E and Legal  
and General, Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms E know she had a choice?
Legal and General had to make it clear  that the PPI policy  was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Es mortgage application  form.  In this there is a section for PPI which  
has been completed to show that Ms E wanted to take out PPI and the level of cover she 
required. But there is nothing here to suggest Ms E had to take out PPI in order  to be 
approved for the mortgage. Ms E signed this application form - so I think  this reflected what  
she wanted at the time. 
Ref: DRN23723094Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms E knew  the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Legal and General provide advice?
Both Legal and General and Ms E agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Legal  and General had to advise Ms E with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Legal and General took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Ms E. The adviser  had information about some of Ms Es financial  
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But some information was recorded  to try 
and establish  whether  Ms E had a need for the policy  by asking questions about her wider 
circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means  I dont think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Legal  and General did all it should  
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms E given her circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Legal  and General  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Legal and General did all it should have done to make  sure the 
policy was suitable  for Ms E, I do think its more  likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms E met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Ms E had a need for the policy  she was solely responsible for the mortgage  
payments and it seems  likely  Ms Es finances  would be put under strain if she were 
not working  even  allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits she was 
entitled to. The policy would have helped Ms E manage the consequences were she 
unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms E.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms E. There was 
nothing about  Ms Es employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Ms Es 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Legal and General gave Ms E 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable her to understand 
what Legal and General  was recommending  to her and make  an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN23723095the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms E was given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms E would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Legal and General gave 
sufficient information  about the exclusions or limitations before Ms E agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms E Im not persuaded Legal and 
General did enough to present information about  the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Legal and General gave Ms E all of 
the information she needed  about  the policy to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Es representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Es. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Es representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms E about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Es representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms E has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Legal and General ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Legal and Generals  shortcomings have on Ms E? To what extent did 
Ms E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Legal  and General didnt do all it should have done  when  it sold this policy to 
Ms E. So I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Ref: DRN23723096Ms E suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or not 
Ms E would  have still taken out the policy, had Legal and General done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Legal and General took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Ms E, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms E has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Legal and General had explained 
things properly, Ms E would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Ms E says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms E had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Legal and General advised her that there was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Es circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Ms E was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms E thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to a condition which  Ms E had, knew of on the 
start date or occurs within 30 days of the policy, or , a condition  which  Ms E received 
treatment or advice for or consulted a Doctor about in the 12 months before the start 
date;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN23723097I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms E pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms E from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Es circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms E was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ms E wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms E might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms E 
from taking out the policy,  Ms E, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
To make a disability claim, Ms E needed to be totally unable  to do her normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  she would have thought shed  been  able to 
make a successful claim if she was still working.
Legal and General may not have told Ms E that any claim she made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what she expected  and might  have  hoped  for 
 but 12 months  is likely to have  been a longer period than Ms E would have received full 
sick pay for and her statutory redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms E would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms E be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Ms Es sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms E would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms E was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms E 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Es representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN23723098That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms E would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms E 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms E in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Legal and General should pay Ms E compensation, as that 
would put her in a better position  than she would have been in if everything  had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms E thinks  Legal  and General misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Legal and Generals statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason 
why Legal and General failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or 
didnt say in the information  it provided  but because the overall information Legal and 
General gave Ms E, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair 
and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1998 when providing information  about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Es representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Legal and General negligently misrepresented  the contract to Ms E and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Legal and General had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms E in a better  position  than if everything 
had happened  as it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN23723099my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2372309