K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim made against his 
home insurance policy.
background
In 2015, a heating engineer, carrying out a regular service at Mr Ls home, caused a 
significant amount  (several hundred litres) of oil to escape into the ground around Mr Ls 
home and annexed property. Mr L made  a claim against his home insurance policy  with AXA 
for the damage  caused to his property. However,  the engineers insurer,  which  I will refer to 
as D in this decision for ease, has accepted Mr Ls claim and has been  dealing with the 
repairs to Mr Ls home  rather than AXA.
On 10 March 2017 an ombudsman from this service  issued a final decision on the handling 
of that matter to that date. She said that AXA should put things right in a variety of ways 
including taking on liability  for finishing the repairs and/or liability  for completed work (carried 
out by D).
Following the final decision, Mr L and AXA agreed that D would continue to manage  the 
repairs to the property for ease, which included D making some  cash payments to Mr L in 
respect of certain parts of his claim. But Mr L is unhappy with this and how his insurers  have 
handled various new aspects of his claim.  This decision relates only to the issues  that have 
arisen after the previous final decision was issued.
Mr Ls outstanding  concerns  relate  mainly to the method  of repair  and outstanding works,  
contamination to his land, reimbursement for his expenses  and damaged contents and the 
premiums AXA has quoted to continue insuring  the property.
On 23 December 2020 I issued a provisional  decision  upholding the complaint in part. In it I 
said that I didnt  think all the issues Mr L had raised  were necessary steps in order to 
complete the works to his property. However,  I did agree that the claim wasnt  handled well 
by AXA and that there were several  things  it needed to do in order to get things back on 
track.
AXA responded to my provisional decision to say that it didnt believe I had taken account of 
the challenges it had encountered in taking on the claim  without access to Ds file and it said 
that Mr L hadnt substantiated that the additional  losses he was trying to claim for were over 
and above those already  paid by D. But it also stated that it was willing to accept what I had 
said. Mr L responded to say he agreed with parts of the decision but highlighted several  
areas he didnt agree  with.
So the complaint has been passed  back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN21623432For clarity,  this decision relates  only to issues that have occurred after the previous  final 
decision in 2017.  I will not be commenting on or considering any issues  which have already 
been considered under  the previous  complaint.
In this complaint,  there are several  issues where there  are conflicting opinions  about  what 
has happened. Where thats the case,  Ive based my conclusions on what  I believe  to be the 
most likely thing to have happened. Mr L has also raised concerns about whether we should 
have informed him to provide additional evidence to AXA in support of his claim. But this 
service wouldnt handle  the claim on behalf  of either  party or tell Mr L what evidence to 
provide to AXA  our role is to review  whats  happened  and reach a decision on the 
complaint that we believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I outlined that I thought both parties could have done more to 
progress the claim  faster  than they have.  I said that AXA should  have done more to 
investigate the issues Mr L raised  in 2018 and establish the condition of the property at that 
stage. And I thought  that Mr L could have  done more to ensure he was assisting with the 
ongoing claim  for example by providing AXA with the contamination report  hed had carried 
out and entering  into correspondence with D when it contacted him. 
Both parties  responded to my decision to say they disagreed with this. AXA didnt think Id 
taken account  of how difficult taking on liability for the claim had been  for it, given that D 
wasnt forthcoming with its claims file. And Mr L didnt agree that he hadnt  co-operated  with 
AXA and D during the claim.
However after reviewing  the information I have on file and the responses received from AXA 
and Mr L, I remain of the opinion that both parties could have done more  to progress the 
claim faster than they did.
Mr L made AXA aware that he had concerns about  the property in 2018  and Im aware it 
contacted D in relation to this. However,  when it became  apparent that D wasnt going  to be 
cooperative, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for AXA to take proactive steps to 
identify the extent of the outstanding  issues  and consider what next steps were  required to 
get Mr L back into his home as soon as possible.  And I think  its failure to take proactive 
steps caused a delay.
However, I also have to consider Mr Ls actions. It is for Mr L to evidence that he has a claim 
under his policy and provide evidence of his losses. While Mr L was corresponding with AXA 
and D both directly and through a solicitor  at different points  during  the claim, I think there 
were times where he was asked for information  which he didnt provide  and that then 
caused a delay to the progress of his claim. For example AXA asked him to provide a 
spreadsheet with a list of outstanding issues  in order for it to ensure they had been 
considered and address, but that information  wasnt forthcoming.
Mr L has raised a number of issues as part of his complaint, and I have addressed  several of 
these below. However, due to the number of issues  Mr L has raised,  I have focussed  on 
what I believe to be the central issues in this complaint.
Underpinning
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN21623433In order to rectify the damage caused  to Mr Ls property, around a third of the property was 
underpinned and a radon barrier was installed. Mr L says hes seen reports  that suggest the 
partial underpinning of the property  may give rise to a small risk of differential movement, 
which would mean  that he may have to make  a further subsidence claim should this happen  
in the future. Mr L has pointed to a report which suggests that an exoskeleton around the 
entire property would be the best method of repair and would prevent any issues  in the 
future. However,  as I understand it, this would  be a costly option.
I am not an expert and must rely on the evidence I have to decide  what  I believe to be a fair 
outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. AXA has acknowledged that it is difficult to 
put Mr L back into exactly the same position  he was in before the oil leak due to the issues 
involved in this claim. But the report suggests the risk of differential movement is small and 
there is currently no evidence of any movement to the property, so I dont think  AXA needs 
to take any further  action  at this time.
Mr L has suggested that there has already  been  movement and that there is new cracking in 
the property. But I havent seen any evidence  that the cracking  to the property is new and 
one of the reports on file suggests  the cracking may have been present  prior to the 
commencement of the works. So taking that into account, Im not satisfied there is enough  
evidence to show that there is new cracking to the property which  warrants  further 
investigation.
Mr L has also raised concerns about the radon barrier that was installed,  which  he says will 
cause additional  movement and will cause  water to breech the flint plinth and ultimately 
cause damp  in the property. But the engineer has commented that maintaining the 
vegetation around the property will be sufficient to reduce this risk and the pre-condition 
survey had also noted that the property was showing signs  of damp  prior to the oil leak. So 
without evidence that the radon barrier  has caused a damp issue,  I dont  think  AXA needs  to 
take any action  in regard to this at this time.
D has previously offered to monitor the property for a period  of nine months, however that 
period has now lapsed,  and I am not aware of any new cracking or damp that AXA needs to 
investigate. So while I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about this, I havent seen any 
evidence that the methods used to repair the property werent suitable or that there are 
outstanding issued with these that mean AXA needs  to take further  action at this time. 
Should Mr L have further concerns about these issues in the future  then he would need to 
speak to AXA about the possibility of raising a new claim  and allow  it to investigate  whether 
the issue is linked to the repairs carried out by D.
Mr L has also raised concerns that he believes shuttering  should have been installed under 
the annexed part of the property due to the risk of contaminate at a depth of lower  than one 
meter. But I havent  seen any independent evidence which  suggests this is necessary in the 
circumstances. So while I appreciate Mr L has concerns about the works carried  out to his 
property, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think AXA needs to take any further action  
in respect of shuttering the annexed  building.
Mr L has responded with some concerns  about  the use of the word small in my provisional  
decision and also stating  that AXA has a responsibility to return him to the same position  he 
was in prior to the claim, regardless of the cost to AXA. I have  considered Mr Ls comments  
in this regard.
Ref: DRN21623434Mr L is correct  that the reports  dont  quantify  the risk. However I have considered  the 
comments made by the experts in the relevant reports, which  suggest  that while there is 
potential for there to be differential movement as only part of the property is underpinned, 
there is no evidence  that this has occurred. 
Both the building  control inspector and the structural engineers  are satisfied that the works 
carried out are sufficient and that there  is no evidence the rest of the property needs 
underpinning. And while I would expect AXA to take reasonable steps to put Mr L back  into 
the position he would have been  in, had the incident not occurred,  that wont  be possible 
here due to the extensive works carried out to the property. So I have considered  whether  
the steps taken  are fair and reasonable  in the circumstances and based on the reports Ive 
seen and the lack of independent evidence of any movement to date, I remain of the opinion 
that AXA doesnt need to take any further steps to underpin the entire  property.
Mr L has also commented on the cost aspect of these works. But while  I have mentioned 
that it would  be a costly option, that doesnt appear  to be the reason that AXA arent 
underpinning the rest of the property and isnt the reason  for me not upholding this part of his 
complaint. AXA has confirmed that the reason it isnt underpinning the rest of the property is 
that it doesnt believe its necessary and for the reasons outlined above,  I dont think  its 
decision to decline to carry out further  underpinning is unreasonable.
current contamination
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr L has recently provided  new evidence  that there may still be oil contamination to the 
land, which  conflicts with previous reports carried out that suggested the contamination was 
clear. AXA doesnt  appear  to have had the opportunity to consider this prior to this service 
reviewing Mr Ls complaint. But it has now agreed to review this and take any necessary 
action to rectify it, if there  is outstanding  contamination. I think  this is a fair resolution at this 
time and will also assist  AXA in deciding whether it is appropriate for Mr L to move  back to 
the property or whether further  alternative accommodation needs to be arranged while this is 
rectified  however Mr L will need to allow AXA and its agents access to his property in order 
for this to progress.
Mr L responded to this point to say that it has been some time since  any of the parties 
involved have commissioned a report on property contamination.  And he said that he 
disputes that he declined a report from AXA. But my provisional decision doesnt comment  
on Mr Ls past actions  in relation to this  only that he will need  to allow  AXA to carry out the 
tests in the future. And Mr L would also like me to comment  on whether AXA has protracted  
the management of the claim  however this is something I have considered  under the 
heading of compensation.
So nothing Mr L has said has changed  my thoughts on this element of his complaint  and I 
remain of the opinion that AXA should  do as it has already agreed to and carry out further 
investigations to establish whether there is any residual  contamination on the land.
Mr L has also commented on shuttering around  works under the Annex.  However  as these 
are works that would only need to be considered if it was found that there  is still 
contamination on the land, I think it would be premature for me to make any direction in 
regard to this issue.  If AXA finds that there is contamination  on the land, then I would  expect 
it to consider the appropriate next steps  at that stage.
Ref: DRN21623435alternative accommodation
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr L has raised several concerns about his alternative accommodation  costs  not being 
paid. In contrast,  AXA and D believe that Mr L has been paid more than he is entitled to 
under the terms  of his policy.
While Mr Ls policy does limit the amount he can claim for alternative  accommodation,  some  
of the costs in this case have been incurred as the result of poor claims handling  and 
therefore, I think a fair and reasonable outcome here would be for these  costs  to be 
considered over and above the policy limit.
Mr L originally rented  a reasonably priced  property, however when this came up for renewal 
the lease was for 12 months. So Mr L decided to find an alternative property with more  
favourable leasing  terms in anticipation of the works being completed. The second  property 
cost £2,600 per month and Mr L ended up being there for significantly longer than expected 
due to the ongoing works. However  it would seem that Mr L was only being reimbursed 
£2,000 per month for this as D considered the cost higher  than were  necessary. However  I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr L was informed of this, despite raising concerns several 
times.
Had Mr L been informed,  I think its likely  he would  have  considered  finding  more cost-
effective accommodation   but as he wasnt told, he was deprived of the opportunity to do 
this. So I think a fair resolution would be for AXA to reimburse the additional amount that 
hasnt already been reimbursed for this property for the duration  he was staying  there. Mr L 
also says he hasnt  been reimbursed for the additional costs of mileage due to living away  
from the property. It is for Mr L to provide evidence of his losses  in this respect  and I 
understand D has already made  a payment towards  this. However if Mr L believes  the 
payment should  be increased then he should explain his reasons to AXA.  I have seen that 
Mr L has provided a rough calculation for the amount of mileage he is claiming for but I 
havent seen any explanation as to why it was necessary  for both him and his wife to make 
daily trips to property, so Mr L would  need  to explain the mileage  costs  he is claiming for and 
how these were incurred.
Should Mr L provide  further information  or evidence to substantiate his claim then I would 
then expect AXA to consider these  and whether the payment  should  be increased. However, 
I havent seen  any compelling evidence showing that Mr L is out of pocked for the mileage 
travelled while he was in alternative accommodation at this stage.
Mr L appears to have been  told around  May 2018 that his property was habitable. However, 
Ive seen correspondence after that date referring  to Mr Ls property not having  electricity 
and there  being  several outstanding issues within  the property.  Taking this and the 
contamination on the property into account, I dont think its unreasonable  for Mr L to have 
had concerns about the safety  of the property  and for him to have reservations about  moving  
his family  into it  and I think AXA should  have done more to address those  concerns  as Ive 
explained above. However, as Ive also explained above, I have considered that Mr L has 
delayed the claim   and therefore  the time taken to move back  into his property.
Ref: DRN21623436So taking all of these  issues  into account, I think a fair way to resolve matters would be for 
AXA to cover 50% of the additional expenses  Mr L has incurred as a result  of living in 
alternative accommodation since September 2018.
As I understand it, Mr L has been staying in his fathers property in an annexed building  on 
the land since  that time.  So I havent seen that Mr L has been paying  any rental costs during 
this period. Mr Ls father was originally living there and presumably paying most, if not all, 
the bills for the property.  But Mr Ls father  was later moved out due to his care requirements. 
It isnt clear whether  Mr L took on payment of essential bills for that property after his father  
had moved out. But if he did, then AXA should  reimburse 50% of these costs.
However Mr L will need to evidence these losses and they should be limited  to essential 
household bills that have been incurred over and above the costs  Mr L would have  incurred 
had he been living in his home  for example  if he has had to make two council tax 
payments each month.
Mr L has also raised concerns that he hasnt been able to rent his property out during this 
period so has lost out on rental  income. But I cant see this is an issue he has raised with 
AXA, so it doesnt  seem it has been  considered. If Mr L would like AXA to consider these 
costs then he should raise  them separately with AXA. As with any claim, he would be 
expected to provide evidence of his losses  (not just a breakdown of the amount he believes 
he has lost out on).
And Mr L has said that he installed a site office  while the works have been ongoing and 
believes that AXA should remove this. However I cant see that this is an issue that Mr L 
ever raised with AXA or that it agreed to pay these costs. In the first instance, Mr L would 
need to raise this issue with AXA and allow it to consider whether this cost is covered  under 
the policy.
Mr Ls response to my findings  on alternative  accommodation was that he felt there was 
inequity in my provisional decision. In summary  he says its unfair that I have only penalised 
AXA £1,500  for its failures but have  penalised  him 50% of his alternative accommodation 
expenditure. However we dont penalise either party and these  amounts are in relation to 
different elements of the complaint. The £1,500 compensation  isnt a penalty and is to reflect  
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to him as a result of AXAs  actions. The alternative  
accommodation costs  are based on what I believe to be a fair and reasonable reflection of 
the delays caused by AXA, which have  led to Mr L incurring further alternative 
accommodation costs.
As Mr L is aware, D has already paid an amount for alternative accommodation and AXA 
believes he has already  been paid an amount totalling at least  the full policy limit for the 
section of cover. However, I dont think AXA did everything it shouldve  to progress the 
claim, which has caused delays in getting Mr Ls property back to a habitable state. And 
therefore I think it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to make  a contribution to the costs 
Mr L has incurred over and above the policy limit.
However, I also have to take into account that Mr L has contributed to this delay  as I have 
explained above. I appreciate that Mr L doesnt  agree on this point  however  from the 
correspondence I have  seen, I think there  were  times where  Mr L also delayed matters  and 
didnt provide AXA with information it had reasonably requested,  such  as a spreadsheet of 
all the outstanding costs and evidence  of those so it could consider these and finalise the 
claim.
Ref: DRN21623437I do appreciate that Mr L and his family  were  in a difficult situation and that Mr L may not 
have always been  in a position  to reply straight away.  But it is for Mr L to show he has a 
claim under the policy and evidence his losses. And as I think  Mr L hasnt always provided  
AXA with the information it needed  to progress the claim, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask AXA to cover the costs that were  being incurred while it wasnt able to 
progress the claim.  
So taking all of that into account, I remain of the opinion that AXA should cover 50% of the 
additional expenses  Mr L incurred as a result  of living in alternative  accommodation  since 
September 2018.
Mr L responded to provide further details about  the mileage costs he says he incurred and 
the reasons for this. However these will need to be raised directly with AXA to consider, 
along with any evidence Mr L has for these  costs. As a payment has already been made by 
D for some of these  costs, I would then expect AXA to consider whether any additional 
payment is due.
Mr L has also raised that he believes AXA is liable for paying the rent at his alternative 
accommodation while living with his father  at an agreed market  rate, regardless of its 
ownership. However Mr Ls policy states that it will cover additional costs of alternative 
accommodation and as these costs are over and above his policy limit, I have considered  
what I believe to be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances.  And having  done so, I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask AXA to pay costs that werent incurred by Mr L for living in his 
fathers property while  he was also living there.  Mr L hasnt provided sufficient evidence of 
additional costs  during  that period, so Im not satisfied that he has evidenced  that he is out of 
pocket for that period.  
However, if Mr L provides  AXA with evidence of having paid additional  costs  for the period 
when Mr Ls father was living at his property with Mr Ls family  then I would  expect AXA to 
consider them or consider whether a daily allowance should  be given to assist  with Mr Ls 
living costs.  However it would be for Mr L to evidence those costs to AXA in the first 
instance.
I have also considered Mr Ls comments regarding rental income  for his annex, which he 
feels AXA should be liable for. However  as Mr L has acknowledged, his policy doesnt cover 
loss of rental income, so I dont see any reason to ask AXA to take on responsibility  for those 
losses as Mr L has no cover  for them under his policy.
Mr L has also stated that he raised the office  removal costs with one of AXAs  agents  and 
hasnt received a response. I note that Mr L would like AXA to cover  these costs, however I 
cant see that it has considered this point or provided a formal response  to this part of the 
claim. So Mr L will need to provide AXA with evidence  of any office removal  costs, such as 
quotes or invoices.  AXA should then consider these costs and provide Mr L with a response.
Lastly, Mr L has stated that he hasnt  been  reimbursed for his moving costs. I can see this 
issue was addressed in the previous final decision  for previous  moving  costs,  so I wont  be 
revisiting that issue again here. But if there are any further moving  costs  after the previous 
decision, for example when Mr L and his family  moved into his fathers property then AXA 
should now consider these.
Storage costs
Ref: DRN21623438In my provisional decision,  I said:
It is my understanding that D agreed to pay for storage costs  until earlier this year, following 
which these costs went unpaid and Mr L was pursued for them. Mr L says he was unable  to 
move his belongings back to the property  as the works were  incomplete and there was a 
vermin infestation. Having  spoken to AXA it seems  it has agreed to pay these costs to 
prevent Mr Ls belongings being  destroyed  but that Mr L hasnt taken it up on that offer.
AXA should  continue paying the storage  costs  until it has established  whether  the property is 
habitable in the opinion  of its specialist. Once  the property is confirmed to be habitable as 
discussed below,  I have seen that D has offered to pay reasonable moving costs. However if 
it fails to do this then AXA should  step in and pay any reasonable costs  incurred in retrieving 
the items.
Both Mr L and AXA appear  to have accepted my findings on this matter,  so I see no reason 
to change my findings and wont  comment on this aspect  of the complaint further.
Legal costs
In my provisional decision,  I said:
D suggested Mr L correspond with it via a solicitor and Mr L says some of these costs  
havent been reimbursed.
Mr L does have legal expenses cover under his policy,  however this part of his cover isnt 
provided by AXA. And I cant  see that AXA has ever agreed to reimburse  Mr L for any legal 
fees hes incurred  or asked Mr L to instruct a solicitor to deal with his claim. So while  I 
understand that D may have asked  Mr L to use a solicitor, I dont think these  costs  are 
covered under the policy with AXA and I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible for 
costs incurred that it didnt agree to.
Mr L has later instructed his own legal  representative. As it was his choice to do that, I dont 
think AXA needs to reimburse any of those  costs.
Mr L has replied with a further point  that he has incurred legal costs  in defence of action 
taken by D in relation  to his storage costs. Mr L states that there is a causal link between  
AXAs actions in failing to provide a habitable  home and Mr L having to incur legal costs to 
defend his position.
However as I outlined in my provisional decision, Mr Ls legal expenses  cover isnt with AXA 
and it didnt require  him to use legal representation to liaise with it  those were  the actions 
of D. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask AXA to pay for any legal  costs  Mr 
L has incurred in dealing with D.
I am aware  D asked  Mr L to correspond using a solicitor, however as that wasnt  AXAs  
decision, I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to hold AXA responsible for those costs.
Sign-off documents
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN21623439Mr L has repeatedly asked to see copies of these and, while  he has been  sent excerpts of 
the report, he hasnt been  sent the full report.  I understand that the full report was over 200 
pages in length and that it was carried out by D, but Mr L has genuine concerns about the 
safety of his property  and is simply asking for some  reassurance that his property is now 
safe for his family to move  back into.
This claim  has been handled  poorly,  particularly by D. But as AXAs  customer, I would 
expect it to work with Mr L to ensure that his concerns  are answered and that his mind is put 
at ease as much as possible. And I dont  think asking  for a copy  of the sign-off  documents  is 
unreasonable given the significant size of the claim and background to it. So if AXA is unable  
to provide Mr L with any further information  relating to the sign-off  of this work then I would 
expect it to arrange its own report so it can satisfy both itself and Mr L that the works  have  
been carried out to a reasonable standard as far as it can tell.
Mr L has requested as built reports but I dont  think  its reasonable to ask AXA to provide 
these in order to satisfy the claim.  I say this because AXA didnt carry out the works  and I 
havent seen any evidence to show that this report is necessary in order to show that the 
works have  been  completed to the required standard. So I dont think it needs to provide 
additional reports that arent  directly relevant to whether the repairs have been completed to 
a reasonable standard.
Mr L responded stating  that AXA should  have obtained the as built report from D and as it 
has failed to do this, it should now arrange  a non-intrusive ground  survey to produce  a report  
on construction and the location of site services. I have considered  Mr Ls comments  in 
regard to this, however  I havent been provided  with any evidence  to show  that this is a 
necessary requirement  to evidence that the works  have  been completed to the standard  
required, so I wont  be asking AXA to carry out this survey at its own cost. However, as AXA 
has already agreed  to have a report carried out in order to progress the claim, Mr L can 
speak to AXA directly  about whether it would be possible to include this information, which  
AXA may be able to provide at its own discretion.
Mr L has requested that if a further report is required to provide sign off documentation, that 
this is carried out by the original agent who carried out the pre-work  property inspection. But 
that would  be for AXA and Mr L to discuss and agree on as this isnt something AXA has had 
the opportunity  to consider at this point. And as I cant guarantee the suitability or availability 
of any particular agent, I wont be directing AXA to appoint this particular agent.
Outstanding work and contents
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr L says there  are wires exposed in the kitchen, a heavy radiator hasnt been fixed  back to 
the wall and there is currently a rodent infestation in the property, all of which  are preventing 
him moving  his family back into their home.
I havent seen  any evidence that AXA has taken  any action to rectify  these issues  despite 
having been aware of them for some  time now. Mr L was told he could move back into his 
property in May 2018, but these issues have  prevented him from doing that. While  these 
may seem like minor  issues,  Mr L has made AXA aware of his financial troubles as a result  
of this claim so I would expect AXA to take action and ensure that these works are carried  
out to Mr Ls property as soon as possible. I have commented on how AXA should put this 
Ref: DRN216234310right below. AXA should also arrange for exterminators to visit the property shortly before the 
property is ready for Mr L to inhabit.
Mr L also says the infestation  of vermin  has caused  damage to contents in the property and 
that hasnt been dealt  with. AXA hasnt considered this as D has been  managing  the claim 
and its unclear what items were left in the property that have been damaged or why these 
were not placed  in storage. Mr L will need to provide  evidence  of his losses. Should he do 
that, AXA should reconsider this issue. However at this time, Mr L hasnt provided AXA with 
enough information for it to assess this part of his claim.
In order to ensure  that the outstanding issues are rectified,  I think AXA should arrange for an 
independent expert  to carry  out a site visit as explained below. AXA should then carry out 
and works  or reimburse any items as suggested by the independent expert.  The investigator 
suggested that this should  be done within 14 days of this complaint being  settled,  but Im 
aware this may not be possible due to current events. However Mr L has made me aware 
that he is likely to have  to sell the annexed  property that he and his family are residing  in, so 
he is likely  to be made homeless soon.  As such, AXA should pay for the costs  of alternative 
accommodation incurred  and evidenced  by Mr L until any outstanding issues with the 
building identified by the expert have been rectified.
Mr L has mainly  agreed with the provisional  decision but has raised  some  additional points.  
He says that it was a contractor who pointed out that there is a rodent problem. And he also 
says that the property  has suffered  from a damp  issue due to the lack of a damp-proof 
membrane and that he would like me to also recommend  that the damaged  contents  is 
removed and a deep clean executed.
However these comments dont change my findings  on the outstanding work and contents. I 
say this because  I have recommended that an inspection is carried  out. And, as AXA hasnt 
yet received the report on the extent of the outstanding damage, I cant comment  on what 
should happen as the result of that report.  However if the report  identifies  that items need  to 
be removed and that a deep  clean is necessary then I would expect AXA to take these items 
into account. Mr L says he has documented his losses so I would suggest  that he provides 
that information to both AXA and the independent expert to consider.
Mr L has also raised concerns about the number  of contractors who have entered his 
property and approached D about this, who he says agreed to replace  door and window 
locks. While I can appreciate that Mr L is concerned about the security of his property, I 
havent seen anything to confirm whether it would be necessary to change  all the locks on 
the property or whether just door locks would  be sufficient. So, as AXA doesnt appear  have  
reached a decision  on this point, I think it should reconsider whether it can cover the cost of 
replacement locks and if it is unsure, request  that the independent expert include this in their 
report.
Increased premiums
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr L has raised concerns about  the premium and noted that his premiums are likely  to be 
higher for a period of 10 years following the claim so he has stated that AXA should cover  
this difference.  However, I havent seen  any evidence  that this is something that would be 
covered under the terms of the policy with AXA, so it follows that I dont think AXA needs to 
make a payment  for this.
Ref: DRN216234311However I note that Mr L has said he was unable to afford to renew his policy in July 2018  
due to the amount of money he was owed as a result of this claim  and from the notes I 
have, it seems that Mr L was owed  a significant amount and shortly after was reimbursed 
around £25,000. Because if this, I think a fair and reasonable  outcome here would be to 
allow Mr L, if he chooses to  and upon payment of backdated premiums   to reinstate  the 
previous policy  from July 2018  and treat it as though its never  lapsed.
For any increases in premium, Mr L would  like AXA to provide him with documentation that 
clearly identifies the reasons for the increased  risk. However, information about  how AXA 
assesses risk would  generally be considered to be commercially sensitive information so I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to tell AXA to disclose  it. 
However, if Mr L requires this information in the course of pursuing  action against third 
parties then he can speak to AXA directly  and I would  expect  it to consider whether there is 
any information it can share with him, even if this is in general terms, about  the reasons for 
any increase in his premiums. However  I wont be making any directions on this matter.
Compensation 
In my provisional decision I said:
The events of the last few years and the fact that, in Mr Ls opinion,  the property remains  
unfinished, has undoubtedly caused a significant  amount of distress and inconvenience. I 
realise that this claim has been challenging for AXA as it hasnt  always been aware of what  
is happening due to the fact that D has been handling it  and that it has had to rely on both 
Mr L and D to provide  it with information, which hasnt always  been forthcoming.
But even taking those  challenges into account, I think AXA should have handled this claim 
better than it has. There appears to have been  no ownership of the outstanding  issues  and I 
havent seen any evidence that it has seriously considered or acted on any of Mr Ls 
concerns. Mr L is clearly experiencing financial troubles and finding  dealing with D 
challenging and I think AXA could have  done more to assist with that so I think  AXA should 
pay him £1,500  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience it has caused  him through 
its poor handling of this claim since March 2017.
I realise that Mr L believes this payment should be considerably higher than this  and I do 
sympathise with his situation. But I also have to take into account that many of the issues 
have been caused by D, rather  than AXA. I have also considered the time Mr L has spent on 
this claim,  however  I must  consider that the claim itself was the fault of the third-party  and I 
am only considering  whether AXA could have  done more since  March 2017   and the impact 
of them  not having handled  things as well as they should  have  done.
For clarity,  I have considered all the events starting after the last decision and up to the date 
of this decision when  considering the compensation I believe should be awarded.
Mr L has responded to say that AXAs actions have caused significant distress throughout 
the handling of the claim  and shared information about how it has affected his mental  health,  
which I have considered. He says that the magnitude of the award  against  AXA is simply of 
the wrong order of magnitude and sends  the wrong message to the insurance  industry. 
However when awarding compensation, I must consider the distress and inconvenience 
Ref: DRN216234312caused to Mr L. Our role isnt to regulate or punish  businesses and we dont award 
compensation in order  to send messages to the financial industry more widely.
The compensation suggested  is significant  compensation, which  I believe reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs poor claim handling. As Mr L has stated, AXA 
should have done more  to progress the claim and I acknowledge that he has had to spend a 
significant amount  of time on dealing with the claim. However I also have to consider that 
some of this time was due to the claim itself, which wasnt caused by AXA and due to the 
actions of D, who seem to have delayed matters  for all the parties on occasion.  
So taking everything into account, I remain of the opinion that AXA should pay Mr L a total of 
£1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of its 
actions and failure to manage the claim appropriately since  the previous decision from this 
service.
interest payments
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr L would like me to consider adding interest  payments to the alternative accommodation 
costs and legal costs that have already been  paid and also those that are outstanding. As 
Ive explained,  I havent reconsidered anything that was considered  as part of the previous 
decision and had the previous ombudsman intended to add an interest  award then she 
would have done so  therefore I wont be awarding  retrospective interest.  And many of the 
previous payments were made by D so any delays in paying them would  have been  due to 
its error,  rather  than AXAs error  so I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to pay interest on 
those payments.
However I have considered interest payments on the amounts awarded  below  where I 
believe Mr L has been deprived of funds for a period of time.
Neither party has raised any concerns in relation to this part of my provisional decision,  so I 
see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached  in my provisional decision.
Putting things  right
This claim  has been ongoing  for a long time,  but it seems both parties would like to progress 
the matter so Mr L can move back into his home.  However there remains  a significant 
dispute over whether the property is habitable.
In order to put things  right, AXA should arrange  for an independent expert to carry out a site 
visit and assess whether there are any outstanding issues that prevent the property from 
being habitable. It should pick a minimum of two experts  and ask Mr L to pick which one he 
would like to carry out the site visit. The expert should comment on:
whether the property  is habitable
whether there are any outstanding  structural issues
whether there is any significant outstanding work  that needs to take place in the 
property
Ref: DRN216234313And AXA should also instruct a relevant expert to carry out tests to confirm whether there is 
contamination to Mr Ls home  and if there is, whether it is harmful  and whether  it is a new 
issue or part of the original claim.
In addition to the above,  I think AXA should  put things right by:
Reimbursing the extra costs  of around  £600  per month for the period  Mr L was living  
in the second alternative  accommodation.  AXA is entitled to deduct any amounts that 
have already been paid in respect of this item.
Paying Mr L 50% of the essential costs incurred as a result of not residing  in his own 
property since September 2018.
AXA should pay simple interest  at 8% a year on the two amounts above  from the 
date each payment  was made  by Mr L until the date of settlement *.
On receipt of evidence of his losses, AXA should reconsider Mr Ls claims for 
mileage costs, office removal costs, moving  costs, lock replacement  costs and Mr Ls 
contents that were  damaged by vermin.  It should write to Mr L with its decision on 
these matters once  they have been reconsidered.
Send  Mr L any further sign-off documentation  it is able to, or alternatively arrange a 
report to comment on whether the works  to the property have been carried  out to a 
reasonable standard.
Arrange for exterminators  to visit the property shortly before the property is ready for 
Mr L to inhabit  or reimburse Mr L his reasonable costs in appointing his own 
contractor for this.
Pay for the costs  of alternative accommodation incurred and evidenced by Mr L until 
any outstanding  issues with the building  identified by the expert have been rectified. 
Allow Mr L, if he chooses to  and upon payment of backdated premiums   to 
reinstate the previous policy from July 2018 and treat it as though  its never lapsed.
Pay Mr L £1,500  compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience its handling 
of the claim has caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN216234314my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2021.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2162343