K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about Cofunds  Limited. She is unhappy that a payment that was 
intended as a pension contribution to her Cofunds  platform was held in a cash account 
outside her pension. This led to difficulties and delays when she transferred her funds  in 
2017.
background
In December 2016 Mrs As adviser sent a cheque for £8,000  to Cofunds. This was intended  
to be an employee pension contribution. The covering letter said Please note that at this 
time, the funds should be retained in cash. Cofunds held the funds in a cash  account 
outside the pension wrapper and no tax relief was claimed.
On the 22 December 2016 Cofunds wrote to Mrs A confirming full details of your recent 
transaction within your Cofunds Cash Account..  It showed a cash deposit of £8,000  dated  
21 December 2016.
Mrs A has said that this was intended to be an employee contribution  to her pension and 
was to be held in cash as she intended  to transfer her pension  away from Cofunds in early 
2017. Mrs A subsequently completed  an in specie  transfer of the investments she held in her 
Cofunds pension  to a SIPP, but there  was a five month delay in transferring  the cash  fund 
from the December  2016 contribution.
When Mrs A complained, Cofunds said that the covering letter sent with the cheque made 
no indication  that it was to go into the pension. So the money was deposited into the 
Cofunds Cash Account  which was outside the pension wrapper.
Mrs A said that she had not held anything other than a SIPP with Cofunds  and so she felt a 
query should have  been  raised about how the money should be applied rather  than an 
assumption that it wasnt for her pension.
The new SIPP  provider requested an in specie pension transfer in July 2017 and the stocks 
were transferred. But as the £8,000 payment  wasnt held in the pension  wrapper, it wasnt 
transferred at the same time. The final cash  balance  was only transferred in late 
December 2017.  The balance had reduced because of charges payable  between January 
and August 2017.
Mrs A complained to Cofunds but it didnt  uphold the complaint and so Mrs A referred the 
complaint to this service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and decided that it should be upheld.  He was 
satisfied that the payment in December  2016 was intended to be applied to the pension and 
held within  the pension wrapper. He noted that the letter from the adviser could  have been  
more explicit but it was accepted that if payment instructions were received which  were  
unclear then the adviser would be contacted. The adjudicator noted that at the time of the 
payment Mrs A only held investments within the pension wrapper and he noted  that Mrs A 
said that no previous  payments made to the platform had been held outside  the pension  
wrapper.
So the adjudicator didnt  think  Cofunds  was acting reasonably  when it applied  the payment  
outside the pension wrapper without  seeking  clarification. Had it checked, it would have 
Ref: DRN29679862found out that the contribution was to be applied  to the pension. Then tax relief  would have  
been obtained and the cash funds would have been transferred across  to the new SIPP in 
July 2017 rather  than December 2017.
The adjudicator set out how redress should  be calculated.
Cofunds didnt  agree. It said,  in summary:
The deposit made in December 2016 was received with just a cover letter from the 
adviser and there was no Employee  Pension  Contribution Request  Form.  Even if 
Mrs A wanted the money to be held in cash within the pension  wrapper, this form 
would have been required.  It is standard practise  throughout  the pension  industry  for 
these forms to be completed.
Mrs A has held a Cofunds Cash Account since 2015 when an initial  cash  deposit was 
made.
The adjudicator considered this response  but he didnt  change his view.  He said that the key 
issue was what should reasonably have  been  done  when  the cheque  for £8,000 was 
received. It had been accepted that if instructions received were unclear the adviser would 
be contacted.  The covering letter only said the funds should be held in cash. At that time 
Mrs A held no funds in her cash account  which was outside the SIPP but did hold cash  funds 
within the SIPP. So the covering letter made  it clear that the funds should be held in cash  but 
didnt say which account it should  be held in. The instruction was unclear and should have 
been questioned. Had it been questioned,  the funds would have been applied to the SIPP  
account and tax relief  claimed.
As no agreement has been reached the case was referred to me for decision.
I made  a provisional decision  as I didnt agree with the adjudicator.  I said;
The cash  deposit Mrs A made  in December 2016 was apparently  intended as an 
employee contribution  to her pension. But the covering letter made no reference to 
that. The adjudicator noted that the covering letter could have been clearer.  My view 
is that it should have been clearer. It would have been  quite simple to give greater 
clarity and set out that the payment was an employee pension contribution.
Im not satisfied that there was any ambiguity  in the instruction given - that the funds 
be held in cash - which  should have triggered any enquiry  by Cofunds. I think it was 
entitled to accept the payment as a cash deposit and hold it outside the pension 
wrapper. I dont  think it was acting unreasonably  in doing that. My understanding  is 
that there had been no earlier employee contributions  paid in this way and treated 
differently. So there was no history of similar  contributions which could have 
prompted some enquiry.
So Im not currently satisfied that Cofunds  is responsible for any losses  arising from 
the delay in transferring the pension.  With regard to the tax relief, my understanding  
is that tax relief can be carried forward in certain  circumstances,  and so its not 
certain that Mrs A need suffer any loss of tax relief in any event. She may wish to 
seek advice about that.  
Mrs A responded to the provisional decision and explained that the complaint wasnt about 
tax relief. She also asked  her advisers to comment. They  said,  in summary,  Cofunds had no 
authority to open  a cash account and this problem arose out of a culmination in errors. The 
SIPP account reference had been clearly stated at the top of the letter.
Ref: DRN29679863Cofunds responded to these comments and offered some further evidence. It said that it had 
written to Mrs A confirming the cash deposit in December 2016, but it now said that letter  
had been returned by the post office. It said that a cash account had been  opened as a 
result of issues surrounding an earlier effort to make an employer contribution  in 2015 when 
the correct forms hadnt been completed. The contribution had been held in cash  until that 
was resolved. It also said that statements  sent to Mrs A before December 2016 referred to a 
cash account.
Mrs As advisers commented further.  They questioned why there  was a delay in opening the 
cash account in 2015. The delay suggests funds could have been held in a suspense 
account. They also asked  why the returned  correspondence hadnt been resent and pointed 
out that Cofunds hadnt passed  on a complete form of authority from the new provider on 
transfer. Had it done so, this may have highlighted the issue  of the tax refund. 
Ive reconsidered  the case in light of these further  submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  the parties have 
said in response  to my provisional decision but Ive read everything.  Having done that, Ive 
not changed my provisional conclusions and I confirm them here. I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Its perhaps unfortunate that Cofunds didnt arrange  to resend the correspondence  that was 
returned undelivered, or copy it to the adviser.  It seems that it was returned as a result of a 
failed effort to redirect the letter whilst  Mrs A was on an extended holiday. It did reach her 
address and if it had been resent  it may not have come to her immediate attention  if she was 
away for an extended period. But I dont think that is critical to the outcome of this complaint.
Its now apparent that there had been  an earlier employer  contribution.  Difficulties  
surrounding that contribution, and the forms necessary to complete it, seem  to be what  led to 
Mrs As cash  account being opened.  Even  if the creation of the cash account was due to a 
culmination of errors by Cofunds (and Im not necessarily  satisfied  that it was), I dont think  
that has any direct bearing  on the outcome of this complaint.  The fact is that there was a 
cash account and it was identified on earlier statements.  So Mrs A, and/or her advisers, 
ought to have known about  it.
Im satisfied that the covering letter  with the contribution could  and should  have  been  clearer 
in identifying that this was a pension contribution. I dont  think there was such an ambiguity 
that should have put Cofunds on notice to make enquiry. It wasnt  acting  unreasonably  when  
it allocated the funds to a cash  account  and not to the pension.
So I see no reason  to change my provisional  decision. For these reasons and for the 
reasons in my provisional decision, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN29679864my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2967986