K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that b2b Loans  & Mortgages Ltd (b2b) mis-sold them a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007 when they applied for a joint 
loan.
background
Mr and Mrs M complain  their loan had PPI attached which  they did not want or need. They 
said they were sold the insurance over the telephone; the woman selling the PPI was very 
firm and insisted they needed it. Mr and Mrs M initially  complained to the lender who told 
them the PPI was sold by a broker called  b2b. So Mr and Mrs M complained to b2b.
B2b said it did not sell the PPI with the loan;  the loan was sold by a male member  of its staff 
in a face to face meeting  and PPI was not added to the loan when he met Mr and Mrs M. So 
it concluded it did not sell the PPI to them.
Our adjudicator thought the PPI had been  sold by b2b and so it was responsible for looking 
at the mis-sale complaint.  b2b disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter 
to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I thought b2b was 
not responsible  for selling the PPI in this case. A copy  of my provisional decision was sent to 
both parties and we invited  them  to comment.  B2b had no further comments to make. 
Mr and Mrs M made the following points which they had raised before:
They are convinced  the lender sold them the PPI;
They spoke to a woman who insisted they had to have the PPI to get the loan;
They had never dealt with b2b.
Our adjudicator had explained the lender  had no record of any contact with Mr and Mrs M 
between the dates of the loan application and the completion of the loan. So our adjudicator  
did explain  she did not have enough evidence to show  the lender sold the PPI. And as 
Mr and Mrs M were  so sure they had been sold PPI by a female, it wasnt  possible b2b had 
sold it as the loan was sold by a male. As these points have already been  considered,  I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M have  put forward any new evidence for me to look at, so I see no reason 
to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether b2b is responsible for the sale of the policy. If I 
decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  think 
b2b was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs M, then Im not able to say that 
b2b did anything wrong. This means  I cannot  uphold the mis-sale complaint against b2b.
Ref: DRN20614972In this case, I am going to say b2b is not responsible for the PPI sale so I will not be 
upholding the mis-sale  complaint against it. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, so I will 
explain why.
B2b told us it did not sell the loan with the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. It confirmed that a male  
member of staff sold them the loan and it produced a copy of the loan application which  was 
signed by Mr and Mrs M on 13 April 2007. The form is headed  with the b2b company 
branding. At the top of the application form, it has a section covering payment protection 
insurance. It has two tick boxes asking the consumer to select either Single cover or 
Double  cover. On Mr and Mrs Ms form, neither box has been  ticked   so at this stage, it 
does not look like Mr and Mrs M selected  PPI when they met with b2b on 13 April. 
I have also seen a copy of the final loan agreement which Mr and Mrs M signed around one 
week later on 21 April.  This agreement is headed  with the lenders company branding.  This 
form also has a PPI section. It has a tick box which says: I wish to purchase Payment 
Protection Insurance and this box has been ticked. Below that it says:  I understand that I 
am purchasing the product ticked above  on credit  provided by you and that the terms 
relating to the credit for the product can be found in the Key Financial Information,  Other  
Financial Information  and Key Information elements referring to the PPP loanin this 
Agreement. Mr and Mrs M have signed  below that to confirm  they are buying PPI. There  is 
another tick box below  that which confirms Mr and Mrs M selected  Single Life, Accident, 
Sickness and Involuntary Unemployment cover. So I think it is more likely that 
Mr and Mrs M decided  to buy the PPI around  21 April.
I could see no indication  on the loan application  that b2b gave any sign that Mr and Mrs M 
might be interested  in buying PPI. I dont  know how the policy  was sold to Mr and Mrs M  
but they told us it was a telephone  sale by a female representative who insisted  they needed 
PPI. So I cannot  see any evidence which shows b2b was involved in that part of the PPI sale 
process as it said it sent a male staff member  to talk to Mr and Mrs M about their loan 
application. It follows that I do not think b2b is responsible for the PPI sale.   
As I think  b2b wasnt responsible for the PPI sale, it follows that it also wasnt responsible  for 
carrying out the sale properly. So Im not going to uphold  this PPI mis-sale complaint  against 
b2b. I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but this Service cannot take this complaint any 
further against b2b.
my final decision
My final decision is that b2b Loans  & Mortgages  Ltd is not responsible for looking at this PPI 
mis-sale complaint and I do not uphold this complaint against  b2b Loans  & Mortgages Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2061497