K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) for how it handled 
reducing and withdrawing  her overdraft facility. She has encountered  difficulties with her 
credit and has incurred  charges  as a result. She wants Nationwide to refund the charges and 
acknowledge that it has made errors. 
background
Mrs D held a credit card and current account with Nationwide. She had an overdraft facility 
on her current  account with a limit of £500 and a credit card with a limit of around £2100.
In November 2018, Nationwide wrote to Mrs D advising her that it intended to withdraw  her 
overdraft facility on 27 December 2018,  as she was at or near her limit. 
Mrs D contacted Nationwide  in early December. She offered to repay the overdraft at £50 
per month. 
Nationwide responded advising that it could offer Mrs D an overdraft facility which reduced in 
limit by £50 per month.  It explained that Mrs D would need to make payments and provide 
details of her income and expenditure. 
Mrs D responded to this message on 26 December, which was a bank  holiday.  She said that 
she wanted to accept the reducing overdraft facility.  
Nationwide then withdrew the overdraft  on 27 December,  before Mrs Ds message could be 
processed and responded to. 
Nationwide tried to call Mrs D on 31 December, but were unable to reach  her.
Nationwide then reinstated a reducing  overdraft  at the beginning of January 2019.
Nationwide advised  Mrs D that she needed  to provide evidence of her income and 
expenditure, and that the first payment was due by 28 January. 
Mrs D provided  her income and expenditure details,  and Nationwide  accepted these.  
Nationwide confirmed that the repayment agreement would be in place until June 2019. 
Mrs D then did not make her repayment  by 28 January, although  she made a payment a few 
days later.  
Nationwide wrote to Mrs D saying that the agreement  had failed. It therefore  required her to 
repay the whole  of her overdraft. 
Nationwide then sent further notices  in February 2019, including a default notice. This 
required Mrs D to repay the overdraft by mid March 2019. 
Nationwide subsequently restricted Mrs Ds account and transferred the debt to a debt 
recovery agent. This meant that payments into Mrs Ds account could not be transferred to 
her credit card. Mrs D incurred arrears on her credit  card. 
Ref: DRN28231092Mrs D submitted a complaint to Nationwide in January  2019.  Nationwide sent its final 
response to this complaint in March. It set out that it did not consider that Nationwide  had 
done anything  wrong in withdrawing the overdraft and returning payments when there  were  
insufficient funds.  
Mrs D was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into Mrs Ds complaint and has set out his view to the 
parties. This was that Nationwide had acted  in line with its terms and conditions,  and the 
agreements that were reached. He therefore  did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mrs D did not accept  this view and set out that she felt that Nationwide had been grossly  
unfair to her. She therefore wanted an ombudsman decision on her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mrs Ds frustration at the decisions taken by Nationwide  in this case.  
She was clearly making efforts  to reduce her overdraft and did take steps to agree this with 
Nationwide, so it must have been very upsetting to find that the overdraft was being 
withdrawn and the account restricted  when  Mrs D was doing what  she could to reduce the 
debt. 
I do, however,  have  to look at whether the business acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. Nationwide has set out in its terms and conditions  that it had the right to 
bring an overdraft to an end, even without notice, but that it would give notice where 
possible. 
In this situation, Nationwide was entitled to bring the overdraft to an end, and it gave 
reasonable notice of its intention to do so. It was unfortunate that the date Nationwide set  
for its intention to withdraw  the overdraft was immediately  after a bank holiday so that even  
when Mrs D tried to contact Nationwide within the timeframe, she was unable  to reach 
someone until after the deadline had expired  and the overdraft had been withdrawn.  
However, Nationwide was clear about the dates  involved, and it sent a message to Mrs D in 
response to her 26 December message saying that the message would be responded to 
within 5 days.  
Nationwide then did try to contact Mrs D within that time, and then offered to reinstate the 
overdraft, on a reducing basis. I think this was reasonable.  
The communications from Nationwide were  clear that Mrs D was required to provide income 
and expenditure  information in order for any arrangement to last for more  than a month, and 
she responded to this by sending in her details. 
Those same communications made it clear that Mrs D needed to make her payment by a 
specific date, in order for the arrangement  to be met. 
Mrs D did not make that repayment in time,  and so I think  it was reasonable of Nationwide  to 
consider the arrangement had failed,  and to proceed  with enforcing the overdraft. 
Ref: DRN28231093Nationwide then sent correspondence  asking Mrs D to get in touch, and explaining the 
default action  that would be taken  if Mrs D did not settle the debt or make arrangements. 
Nationwides evidence  is that Mrs D did not get in touch. 
On that basis, I agree  with the view reached by the investigator  that, although the action 
might seem unfair or disproportionate to Mrs D, Nationwide has acted in line with its 
published material and in accordance with the agreements it has made with Mrs D. 
As a result, and whilst I recognise  that Mrs D will be disappointed, I do not uphold Mrs Ds 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823109