K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the early redemption charge (ERC)  raised  by Barclays Bank UK  
PLC on mortgages he had with the bank. Mr T would like the ERCs to be refunded  with 
interest.
background
Mr T and his wife had a mortgage with Barclays in 2002 and took out a new mortgage  when 
they moved house in 2004.  Barclays charged an ERC when Mr T redeemed  his first 
mortgage. Our adjudicator said that we couldnt consider a complaint about  this as Mr T 
brought the complaint outside the time within which we could consider the complaint.
Mr T and his wife took out a fixed rate mortgage product with Barclays in 2006. The interest 
rate was fixed at 4.67%  for 10 Years and Mr and Mrs T would have to pay an ERC if they 
redeemed the mortgage within that period.  Mr T redeemed  the mortgage  in 2014 and 
Barclays charged an ERC of £12,227.55. Mr T says that throughout the term of the 
mortgage he was paying significantly above  Bank  of England  base rate and the charge  was 
unreasonable in comparison to the cost involved.  Mr T also says that when he wanted to 
transfer the mortgage to his sole name as he was involved in a marriage  break up that he 
was told he couldnt.  Mr T at that time was working  abroad and was told that he could 
transfer with Barclays  but would  need  to open a Barclays International account which had 
minimum balance requirements.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he felt that 
Barclays was entitled to charge the ERC. Mr T disagrees and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am dealing  here with the ERC charged in 2014.  Our rules do not allow us to consider  all 
complaints and our adjudicator has indicated that because of the time limits that apply to 
complaints we cannot consider the ERC in 2004.There are two issues here. One is whether 
Mr T should have been able to transfer his mortgage  in 2014 and the other  is whether  he 
should have to pay the ERC. At that time Mr T had a UK residential mortgage but was 
working and living abroad.  Mr T appears to have had a conversation  with a member of 
Barclays staff and was told that he couldnt transfer his mortgage.  Mr T says that Barclays 
told him they couldnt help him because  he was working overseas. Unfortunately, Barclays 
has no record of this conversation and Im told that the Barclays  adviser who spoke to Mr T 
has left the company.
If Mr T wanted  to transfer at that time, he would have to apply to Barclays  for a new 
mortgage in his own name. Barclays  has shown  me its residency requirements  that applied  
in 2014 which indicate that if Mr T wasnt returning  to live permanently in the UK within  six 
months it couldnt offer him a mortgage  but he would have to apply through Barclays 
International as its customer. Mr T makes the point that he paid tax in the UK at that time but 
the lending criteria werent based  on tax residency. 
Ref: DRN21926142Mr T told us that he intended  to return to live permanently in the UK at a future date although 
he didnt indicate  whether  that was to be within  six months. I believe its likely that Mr T and 
the Barclays adviser had a discussion  about  Mr Ts residency intentions in 2014 and 
concluded that Mr T wasnt going  to return to return to  live permanently in the UK within  six 
months. I note that Mr T doesnt appear to have appealed this conclusion at the time.  It 
seems that the adviser suggested  as an alternative  - which appears in the lending criteria  - 
that Mr T apply through Barclays International.
Barclays and Mr T have  provided me with emails from about this time which  indicate that 
they were working  to open an account through Barclays International and then make a 
mortgage application. It seems that as a precondition of making the mortgage application 
that Barclays International required  a deposit which Mr T didnt make.  I note that in his email 
to us of 13 June 2019 that Mr T says that its factually incorrect to say that he didnt deposit  
the amount required. But the evidence Ive seen indicates that this money wasnt deposited.  
Mr T makes a separate point that Barclays didnt process the application in a timely matter. 
But the emails  supplied dont indicate that Barclays caused any unreasonable delay.   
Mr Ts ability to transfer his mortgage  into his sole name depended on his satisfying Barclays 
lending conditions at the time he applied for the transfer. Mr T was unable  to do so. But, I 
cant say that Barclays  acted unreasonably in following its lending criteria. Mr T got a 
mortgage elsewhere and redeemed his existing mortgage which meant that he had to pay 
the ERC.  Mr T says that Barclays refused to allow him to transfer the mortgage so that it 
benefited from the ERC. But it does seem that there  was a process  available  to Mr T through 
Barclays International to get a mortgage. This was different than when he applied  for a 
mortgage before but was in line with Barclays  lending  criteria at the time.
The other issue relates to the fairness  of the ERC. Mr T and his wife got a ten year fixed rate 
product on their mortgage in 2006. As is usual with such products, it had an ERC which 
became due when  they redeemed the mortgage in October 2014. We accept that a lender 
can charge an ERC if it represents a genuine  pre-estimate of the costs to lender of 
mortgages being redeemed early. Mr T makes the point that interest rates of course fell after 
2006 but the estimate would have  proceeded the general fall in interest rates.  The 
calculation of the ERC is commercially sensitive information but Im satisfied from what  
Barclays provided to us that Barclays calculated this ERC fairly. So, for the above  reasons I 
do not uphold  this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2192614