K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank  PLC (trading as Barclaycard) gave it 
misleading information about the increase in its merchant services charges.
background
M had a longstanding merchant services  agreement with Barclaycard. In January 2018 
Barclaycard wrote to M saying that it was changing  the charges from 1 April 2018. And that it 
estimated that M would pay an additional  £65 per month. But M says that the charges  in 
April 2018 were £323.97 higher than they would have been. It wants this difference  and that 
in future  months  refunded. Barclaycard did not agree. It offered M a different pricing plan and 
paid £150 to reflect what had happened.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  be upheld and M be paid a further  £300  to 
reflect the increase in charges in April and May 2018. She said that:
-Barclaycard was entitled  to increase the charges in line with the agreement and gave 
M more than the required period of notice.
-Its letter should have  set out exactly how much  the increase would be so that M 
could have made an informed choice.
-M relied on the statement by Barclaycard  that based on our calculations, your 
monthly charges  will increase by £65 a month.
-Taking account of this expected  increase the charges in April and May 2018 were 
£300 in total higher than stated. This should  be paid to M.
Barclaycard did not agree. It said it was impossible  to give accurate figures as these 
depended on the volume and type of transactions. As it said in the letter to M, its estimate 
was based on a comparison of new and old charges if applied to the period  September  2016 
to August  2017.  The letter referred  to where  M could also get more information. It provided a 
spreadsheet for this service showing that the estimate for that period was correctly  
calculated as some charges had reduced. M was free to end the agreement  at any time and 
the director had told it in December 2017 that shed been talking to a different provider. The 
account was closed by the end of June 2018.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 5 February 2019. I set out below what  I said:
an accurate estimate?
I said Id reviewed the spreadsheet evidence provided by Barclaycard.  I agreed that this 
shows that on a like for like basis charges in the period  September  2016 to August  2017 
would have been an average of about  £65 higher per month  with the new rates. I considered  
that Barclaycard  was trying to be helpful  in giving this figure and in highlighting an already 
significant increase  in charges to M. I accepted it provided this in good faith and I wanted  to 
avoid the suggestion that it should  not have alerted M to this at all. It might  otherwise have 
attracted criticism  for not doing so. In my view it couldnt though  be expected to provide an 
accurate figure. It does  not know the detail of the business plans for M and what the mix 
and volume of transactions would be. The only accurate figure is available after the event.
Ref: DRN28420482understanding the increases?
As the actual figures were  clearly  very different I needed to consider carefully  the reasons 
why this was the case  and how the estimate was presented to M.
For M the significant change was the one in which visa debit card charges went  from a per 
transaction flat cost (of £1.25) to a percentage of the value (of 0.30%). In April 2018 this 
largely accounted for an increase in charges on the new basis  of over £300 and there was a 
like for like increase in May 2018  for the same  reasons (although  this was a lower  one than 
in April 2018). I took into account that the April 2018 figures included a particularly high level 
of visa debit transactions compared  to previous  averages.  In itself this volume increase 
seemed to account for some £200  of the increase in charges that month. 
Barclaycard could only base its calculation on the mix of type and volume of transactions 
seen in the past to produce  a figure  that was right. Although  I accepted it said in the letter  
how the figures were  calculated and the assumptions used  it still compressed  this increase 
into one figure in the headline box. And it did not give a line by line comparison of the 
change in charges  either. The explanation  of the basis and nature of the increase was 
especially relevant  to M for the reasons  Id given. 
I took into account that M was clearly considering  an alternative provider in December 2017.  
So its reasonable to think it had already paid quite  close  attention  to the nature of charges. 
And its a business  with a sizeable turnover. So I thought it could be expected  to consider 
the impact of the increase  in charges itself. 
a financial loss?
Based on what Id said above  M had some loss of expectation due to the way the figure was 
presented. I didnt consider it had a financial loss. To find that it had Id need to think  that 
Barclaycard had made a commitment that charges would be limited to £65 higher or had 
made an error in increasing and applying them. It did not do either.  And in addition  to that M 
would also have needed to provide evidence comparing what  it paid to what it would have 
elsewhere. I bore in mind  that it had a better  understanding of its likely business  volumes  
and mix of transactions than Barclaycard did - and as Id said those volumes caused a very 
significant part of the increase.
I said that in my provisional  view I was not persuaded that Barclaycard as a result  is fairly 
responsible for a financial loss payment. However,  I did think that its information for M could 
have been clearer  and that it is responsible for this and an element of inconvenience.  But I 
thought that the compensation of £150  reflected  this. That means  that I am not upholding the 
complaint. I asked for any comments or further evidence before  I made  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M made a number of points saying that it did not agree with my provisional decision.  It asked 
to see the information this service had about  the estimated increased in charges. This was 
provided for M in the layout wed seen and the deadline for comments  from M extended.  M 
said that this should  have  included other  time periods too and wanted me to consider this. M 
maintained that the letter  from Barclaycard should have said that based on the fluctuations  in 
Ref: DRN28420483turnover it was unable  to give an indication of the change in charges. M did not think  that 
quoting charges was helpful. It was also unhappy at the time Barclaycard had taken to 
respond to this service.  M had to chase  this matter up at a significant cost and so to say it 
had not suffered financial loss was missing the point. M said it had been misled because  it 
had not received accurate  figures.  If it had the correct information  then it would  have been  
alerted to the need to check  costs  further  with other providers.
Barclaycard agreed  with my provisional decision. It wanted to emphasis that its letter about 
the charges to M said that the overall  cost would depend on the type of transactions and 
how these are processed. The letter  went on to say that this estimate was based on the 
historic transaction  profile and may not be the actual charges.  Barclaycard said that the letter  
should be considered and read in its entirety. It said that it had responded to the requests for 
information from this service in a timely  way and was not expected to provide further 
information to M after the complaint had been referred to us.
Ive considered these  points. I dont have a basis to say that Barclaycard ought to have  used 
a different time period  in its calculation. And even if it had I dont think that would necessarily 
have addressed the issues here.
Barclaycard alerted M to a change in its rates. It was able to alter these with the required 
notice under the terms and conditions. I think it was reasonable for M to consider the impact 
of the change whether or not any estimate  had been made. Here Barclaycard told M of its 
calculation that, on a like for like basis charges would increase by £65 a month.  It explained 
how that calculation  was produced. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to give this figure 
and in my view its intention was to be helpful not to mislead. I think  that any expectation  that 
this could be an accurate  figure is not a reasonable one. 
I analysed in my provisional decision whether I thought that Barclays could be responsible 
for any financial loss linked to this information. M has not provided any further evidence to 
show that it had a direct financial loss from this. A separate  point M raises is the time spent 
in bringing the complaint. We rarely make an award for that time and I dont consider that is 
appropriate here given my assessment  of the complaint.  This service has requested addition 
information to investigate the issues M raised and its been carefully analysed. I remain  of 
the view that the compensation  Barclaycard has already offered fairly reflects  the impact of 
what happened. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard)  need do no more than its already offered to and which is to pay M 
£150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2842048