K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly paid a claim against 
his motor insurance policy and didn't inform him.
Reference to Haven includes its agents.
background
Mr As car bumped into the back of another. He told Haven  about it. When he was about to 
renew his policy  he found out that Haven had paid a claim from the other  driver and that this 
had made  his premium  increase.
Mr A wasn't happy with Havens action so he brought  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  
didn't think  Haven had done  anything wrong. Mr A didn't agree so his complaints been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr A doesn't deny  that his car bumped  into a car in front of him. So he would be held at fault 
for the accident.  But he doesn't  think the other car was damaged so thinks  Haven shouldnt 
have paid the claim against his policy.
Mr As shown  us and Haven pictures  of the car straight after the accident. And theres  no 
clear sign of any damage in those  pictures. So I can understand why he thinks  there was 
nothing to repair. But an independent engineer examined the other  car and produced a 
report detailing what damage  had been caused in the incident and the costs to repair  that. 
And he appended pictures of the other car in support of his findings.  And the damage 
identified and the repairs required seem consistent with damage from a low speed  bump.
It might help if I explain that, as I understand it, the impact zones of modern  cars are 
designed to absorb much of the force of impacts to minimise  injuries to pedestrians  and 
others. And the plastic  panels will rebound  immediately after impact. That means that, on the 
outside, the bodywork may appear  not to be damaged at all, but further investigation can 
reveal damage which is not immediately apparent. So that could explain why there was no 
obvious damage in the pictures  Mr A took but the car still needed  repair. And given  that an 
independent engineer provided a report of damage consistent with a low speed impact,  I 
think it was reasonable  for Haven to pay that claim.
Mr As also said that Haven didn't tell him about  the claim. I've seen that at the outset  Haven 
wrote to Mr A to confirm  that he would be held at fault if the other  driver made a claim. Then,  
roughly two months later it wrote to him again  and told him that it was in dispute with the 
other drivers  representatives over the amount  of the claim. It added that if the other drivers 
representatives contacted Mr A directly he should  pass any requests for information on to 
Haven. Mr A said that he didn't receive  that letter. I don't doubt thats the case. But the letter 
is correctly addressed so I can't say that Mr A didn't  receive it because of anything Haven 
did wrong. I think it would  have been helpful if Haven had also told Mr A once it had settled 
the claim.  But it had previously told him he would be held at fault for any claim. And then told 
Ref: DRN27934802him it was disputing the amount of a claim. And it couldnt have known  that he didn't receive  
that letter. So I think it did enough to keep him informed.
Mr A is also upset that the claim has caused  his premium to increase.  But its usual for 
insurers to consider that a driver with a recent fault claim  on their driving history is a higher 
risk than drivers  without  such  a claim against them. And most insurers  will reflect  that 
increased risk with an increased premium. Thats whats happened in this case.  So I don't 
think Havens done anything wrong.
Also, it seems that Mr A may be unhappy that the incident has been recorded  on a shared 
insurance database. It might help if I explain that insurers  share driving claims and incident 
information on a common database: the claims and underwriting  exchange (CUE). And 
insurers will record  the details of every  incident,  even where no claim is made.  Mr A told 
Haven about the incident shortly after it happened, so Haven would have, quite  correctly,  
recorded the incident on CUE at that point. Then, after it received and then settled the claim, 
it would  have also correctly updated  CUE with that information. Thats something that 
insurers are supposed  to do. So I don't think it did anything wrong in updating CUE.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2793480