K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that Cofunds  Limited  (trading as Aegon) failed to address problems that 
arose after a switch of trading platforms around May 2018.  He says the problems caused 
him a financial loss.
background
The issues  raised  in Mr Gs complaint are as follows:
His previous login details were  supposed to continue to work but they did not, that it 
took over a week for the new login details  to arrive, that when they arrived  they too 
did not work and that it took another  8 working  days to resolve the problem.
He says he faced  a direct debit  (DD)  problem whereby  he was required to set up a 
new DD mandate on the understanding that the previous mandate was void. In the 
interim and in order to meet  charges that had to be met before the mandate was set 
up he made a manual  payment, that payment was taken  but a duplicate  payment 
was also taken from the DD mandate and was never refunded.
The new platform lacks the facilities that the previous platform  had and this has 
affected his monitoring  of investments and his trading.  He estimates he has lost 
around 1% per month  of his portfolio value as a result of this.
Aegon was unresponsive to his complaint, it responded late and did so outside its 
four weeks time limit. 
Aegon arranged  for a compensation payment of £200 to Mr G for the trouble and upset 
caused to him. It apologised  for the problems he had encountered, it noted  that they were 
unacceptable and it summarised its internal efforts to address the problems. Mr G did not 
consider this outcome to be sufficient and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint  and concluded  that it should  not be upheld because  
Aegon had done enough  to address  it. In the main,  he said:
Aegons offer of £200 is reasonable in the circumstances  of the case and is in line 
with what this service would have suggested if Aegon  had not made the offer.  The 
login related problems were  widespread  at the time and lasted around two weeks.  
The double payment he made  in May was a mistake and the second payment was 
not refunded,  but the June payment  was not taken by Aegon  so this had the effect of 
correcting the double payment. The DD continued as normal  from July and no further 
problems appear to have occurred since. Aegon  acknowledged  Mr Gs complaint 
within five working  days of receipt and it issued an interim  response (with notice of 
referral rights) within eight weeks of the complaint, the former was done within its 
response policy and the latter was done  within the regulators time limit. The final 
response was issued four days after the eight  weeks time limit.
Mr Gs claim for financial loss is speculative and not supported by evidence  of a 
measurable loss. The change  in platforms could have been  welcomed by some and 
not by others,  but this service  will not determine how a firm elects to present its 
platform and Aegon  does  not appear  to have applied the change  in breach of any 
contract or regulation.
Mr G disagreed with this outcome. He said his loss could  be measured on the basis of 
investment switches he would have performed on the previous platform  which  he has not 
performed on the new platform. He also said that Aegons interim response was received 
beyond the eight weeks time limit and that he believed it was considering a request  to waive  
Ref: DRN24922302its charges between September and December  2018 in recognition of the problems he faced 
 but that had not been done. 
The investigator did not change his view,  he noted that the interim  response was issued 
within the time limit, that evidence suggests  the new platform  did not prevent Mr G from 
conducting investment  switches  and that he had not seen evidence that Aegon  agreed to 
waive its charges. The matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as expressed by the investigator  for broadly the same  reasons he gave. 
Aegons final response letter says it had arranged  for the £200 payment to be made to Mr G. 
The implication is that the payment has been  made  and on that basis I consider that Mr G 
has received a fair payment  for the trouble and upset caused to him by the problems he 
faced with the login and DD issues. 
Aegon conceded those issues and it apologised for them. It also provided what  appears  to 
be a reasonable  summary of the corrective action it was taking to address those issues.  I 
consider that £200 is broadly consistent  with the sort of payment this service would arrive at 
for compensation in the circumstances of the trouble and upset that Mr G faced. The login 
problems were resolved  between two to three weeks  after they arose and the DD problem 
was corrected by applying the second May payment  to the charges in June (when  no new 
payment was taken). I accept that the problems were inconvenient for Mr G but the £200 
payment addresses  that reasonably. I have not seen evidence  that Aegon  agreed to waive 
the charges between September  and December 2018.
As the investigator  explained, available evidence shows that Aegon acknowledged  Mr Gs 
complaint within  its policy  time limit and that it issued its interim response within the 
regulators time limit. The latter said it needed  more time and it included notice of his referral 
right, so it complied with regulations in this respect. I appreciate that Mr G says he received 
it days after the date on the response but Aegons compliance in this respect is established 
by the response  having been sent within the eight weeks  time limit.
In his complaint  to Aegon, Mr G expressed  his dislike  of the new platform and summarised 
the performance information facilities  in the previous platform which he preferred and which 
were different in the new platform. However,  he also said  Yes I can now drill down into 
fund performance but it is a much more involved process than the old one.  The investigator 
commented that Mr Gs issue with the new platform appeared,  mainly,  to be that he did/does 
not like it. I consider this quote supports the comment and this would not be a reasonable 
basis for compensation.
With regards to the alleged financial loss, the quote above is also relevant. Further  to the 
investigators conclusion  that there is no evidence to show  Mr G was prevented  from 
switching investments in the new platform  with which  I agree  the quote above also 
suggests it remained possible  for him to monitor or manage his investments as he previously 
did, albeit with facilities in the new platform which he considered to be more involved. 
Overall, I do not consider  that he has established a case for financial loss. In addition, there 
does not appear  to be evidence of an actual  not speculative  loss.
Ref: DRN24922303my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 27 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2492230