K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) is unfairly  chasing her for payments on a loan. She wants  it to stop until her 
complaint about  the quality of the goods  purchased with the loan is settled.
background
Miss R tells us that in 2017 she took out a loan with BPF for a kitchen. She says the kitchen 
was to be supplied  and fitted  by a company Ill refer to as W. She says the kitchen wasnt  
fitted properly  and now needs  to be rebuilt. She says W fraudulently  claimed the payment 
from BPF.  She doesnt think she should  have to pay as she feels the finance  agreement is 
void due to Ws breach of contract.  She wants BPF to stop chasing her for payments until 
her complaint against W is settled.  
BPF told us that Miss R had originally complained in April 2018 about the flooring. It said the 
finance agreement  related  to the supply and installation of the kitchen units  only.  And the 
flooring had been completed as part of supplementary  works which  didnt form part of that 
agreement. It said it had then received a further complaint in September 2018 alleging faults  
with the installation. This had included incorrect units being installed and missing  items. It 
said that Miss R hadnt supplied  full details of these. And it stated that Miss R had signed  a 
completion form indicating  she was satisfied with the installation of the kitchen. BPF said the 
finance agreement  was activated  in accordance  with the terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said it had been  
agreed with Miss R that the issues regarding the quality of the goods would be considered 
by the Furniture  Ombudsman. So this service would  only be looking at BPFs actions in 
relation to the loan account.  Our investigator  found that the agreement  required Miss R to 
start making  payments 12 months after BPF had paid W. She said that BPF had made 
arrangements to pay W in July 2017. And BPF had collected the first direct debit payment 
from Miss R in October 2017. She accepted that Miss R had complained about the quality of 
the goods but by then BPF had already made  the payment to W. And she thought  it was 
entitled to activate the agreement and collect repayments.
Miss R didnt agree with this outcome and maintains it was fraudulent for W to claim 
payment from BPF. As its not been  possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been  
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss R had suffered such disappointment over the installation of a new 
kitchen. Ordinarily, this should be a relatively  straightforward matter but sadly thats not the 
case here.
I think its unfortunate that Im not able to look at the entire circumstances as I feel that 
wouldve been in Miss Rs best interests. But I understand why she wanted  to have her 
complaint about  W dealt  with separately. And this service didnt have jurisdiction over W as it 
wasnt the supplier  of a regulated finance  agreement.
Ref: DRN23660612In this complaint  Im not able to make any decision regarding the quality of the goods 
supplied or the way in which they were  fitted.  But I need briefly  to touch on this aspect of the 
complaint. Its Miss Rs contention  that as - in her view - W was in breach of contract, that 
makes her finance agreement void. Accordingly, she says, she shouldnt  be liable for 
payments.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015 and the Consumer  Credit Act of 1974(CCA). Im 
unable to agree with Miss R that any breach of contract by W - its not for me to decide if 
there was such a breach - would mean  the finance  agreement was void.  Still less do I agree 
with her assertion  that the decision  by BPF to make payment to W was the result of 
fraudulent conduct.
Theres a difference  between  a contract that is void and one which  is voidable . Unless the 
parties agreed, it would  need  a court to declare a contract was void. And whilst its possible  
that a party  to a contract  can claim theyre  entitled  to repudiate  the contract due to a breach 
by another party to it (voidable) the issue here is that the alleged  breach of contract was by 
W not BPF.
Its possible that in certain  circumstances  BPF might  be liable for a breach of contract  by W. 
If Id been able to look at all aspects of this complaint Id have been able to consider section 
75 of the CCA. This states  that where certain types  of credit are used  and theres been a 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation - the consumer  has a like claim  against  the 
supplier of finance (BPF) as they would against  the supplier of goods and services (W). 
Section 75 can apply to fixed sum loans which is the type of finance  agreement in this case.  
But as Im unable  to look at whether the goods  supplied were of satisfactory  quality I cant 
make a decision on this point.
Miss Rs finance agreement was in the form of a fixed sum loan agreement. The loan 
financed the supply and fitting  of Miss Rs kitchen.  It didnt  cover any supplementary works. 
Ive seen a report  which suggests that due to the defective installation of flooring the whole 
kitchen might need to be replaced. But as the supply and fitting of flooring wasnt  part of the 
regulated finance  agreement, thats not something I can look at in this complaint against  
BPF.
The finance  agreement contained a Buy Now Pay Later clause. Briefly  summarised,  this 
allowed Miss R to pay back  the loan in full within twelve months  - without interest being 
added. If she didnt choose  to do so, BPF would then start taking monthly  repayments, with 
interest, for the duration of the loan which was 72 months. Payments were due to commence 
12 months after the date BPF paid W. The account statement shows only one direct debit 
being paid in October 2018.
Ive seen a certificate  of completion which appears  to have been signed by Miss R in 
October 2017. And whilst  I accept  Miss R may have felt under some pressure to sign this I 
nonetheless think  BPF was entitled  to take this at face value and act upon it. It took the first 
direct debit twelve months after it paid W and that was in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
Ref: DRN23660613In summary,  whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation in which  Miss R finds 
herself Im not of the opinion  that BPF has done  anything wrong. It paid W on receipt  of 
information that the installation had been  completed  - as it was obliged  to do. It then sought  
repayment from Miss R after 12 months from the date of the payment to W. When  she 
stopped payments I think it was reasonable for BPF to seek to enforce the terms of the 
agreement.
Whilst I know it will come as disappointment to Miss R, Im not upholding this complaint. But 
I want to emphasise that my decision refers only to BPFs handling of the payments and 
arrears in relation  to the fixed sum loan agreement. Ive made no decision on any aspects 
relating to the quality of the goods  and services  supplied by W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2366061