K820x#14Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC wont  refund a payment he says he 
didnt make.
Background
Mr L is disputing an online payment for electrical goods. The goods were purchased on 11 
January 2019  using  Mr Ls debit card details. The total amount in dispute is £90.56 and a 
foreign exchange  fee of £2.49. Mr L raised a fraud complaint with Tesco.  He said he never 
placed the order and he asked for a refund.
Tesco decided not to refund him. It said it had contacted the merchant who confirmed that 
the goods were  delivered to his home address and signed for. It concluded that it was more  
likely than not that Mr L had made the disputed  payment and closed his account.
As Mr L didnt agree  with Tescos decision, he asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold  it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the payment had been made fraudulently.  
Mr L didnt accept the investigators  opinion and so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
In short,  Tesco is required to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction.  The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017  (the PSRs 2017).  But 
the bank can hold Mr L liable for any disputed transactions  if the evidence  suggests that its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
Mr L says he didnt  make the disputed  payment  and he wants  a refund. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think  he authorised the payment.
Tescos records  show  that the payment was made online with Mr Ls debit card details. The 
person who made the payment would have entered the long card number, the expiry date 
and the three-digit security  number in order for this payment to go through. Im satisfied, 
therefore, that his genuine  card details were  used.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  Tesco  
to hold him liable.  So, I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr L authorised the payment.
Ref: DRN21987302From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Tesco  to conclude that Mr L made  the 
disputed payment himself.  This is because:
Tesco said the payment was made with a new debit card, 8 days after it had 
despatched it to his home address. 
On his own admission, there was no-one  else who had access  to his debit card.  Mr L 
had never reported his card as lost or stolen. He had used it for later transactions.  He 
said he kept his card in his wallet.  And he always kept his wallet  on him, in his 
pocket, even when  he changed his clothes.  Mr L confirmed that he lived with his dad. 
There was no-one  else at home. 
Tesco contacted  the merchant who confirmed  that the goods were delivered  to Mr Ls 
home address  and signed for. I agree its unlikely a fraudster  would ask for goods to 
be delivered to Mr Ls home  address. 
Tesco said Mr L has made  13 chargeback claims since September 2018  for goods 
not received totalling  at least £779.74.  Tesco  has provided evidence which shows 
that some of those  goods were delivered to Mr Ls home address and signed for.
Ive seen from the file that we asked Mr L to provide  more details about how he makes  
online purchases, for example which device  he uses and whether they are password 
protected. We also asked  him how a third party  could have got hold of his card details. 
However, Mr L hasnt provided this information.
On balance, taking  everything into account,  I think its more  likely than not that Mr L placed 
the order. I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Tesco to refuse a refund of the 
disputed payment on the basis  it was authorised by Mr L.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr L, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2198730