K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  (AXA) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
in dealing with her claim under her health insurance.  She wants it to settle her outstanding 
hospital bill.
background
Miss H is the beneficiary of an AXA group  private medical insurance scheme taken out by 
her employer. In April 2018, she made a claim and was referred to a consultant. Various 
tests were carried out. Miss H was later given a bill for about £950;  she thought that this was 
because some of the tests werent covered under the insurance policy. Miss H said that she 
wasnt aware that the tests werent covered by the policy  and she wouldnt have agreed to 
the tests if she had known. 
Miss H complained to AXA. It said there was a cap on outpatient costs which Miss H had 
exceeded. AXA noted that the policys terms and conditions said that the limit was £1,000 a 
year and that it applied  to consultations and diagnostic tests; this was in the handbook given 
to Miss H. And AXA said that when Miss H called it in April to arrange the initial referral to 
the consultant,  she was told about the limit. It said that it didnt know what  treatment or tests 
Miss H agreed to undertake, which was why it told her about the limit in advance  when the 
referral was made. It also said that it only knew the costs when the bills were received. AXA 
said Miss H had to pay the hospital bill.
Miss H complained to us. The investigators view was that AXA had applied the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy,  and had told Miss H about  the cap when she first called 
(as well as setting the limit out in the written documents). She said that AXA couldnt update 
Miss H about how much  of the allowance was left until it was invoiced and when they were 
received, it did update  Miss H. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Miss H disagreed. She said if AXA didnt know the costs, it was unreasonable to expect her 
to know. The investigator said Miss H couldve asked the hospital at the time. Miss H said 
that AXA didnt  tell her to check the costs and that it was up to her to ensure that she stayed 
within the allowance.  Miss H also said she shouldve been  told of the costs  in advance. The 
investigator said that AXA was an insurer, and it was a matter for the consultant what  tests  
were carried  out. She noted AXA updated Miss H about the costs in a timely way once it 
knew. Miss H said she thought once the limit was reached,  the treatment would stop and 
said she had another bill from the hospital.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  
Ref: DRN24631562The terms and conditions  of the policy (which are also set out in Miss Hs employers 
handbook) say that only up to £1,000 a year will be paid by AXA in respect of outpatient 
treatment including  outpatient consultations and diagnostic tests.  Insurers  are able to set out 
the rules about  what they will and wont pay for, provided these are set out clearly in the 
policy. I think AXA has set out its rules clearly in Miss Hs case. Miss H has said that the 
handbook also says AXA will confirm if the treatment is covered; I think that it did so during 
the call with her in April 2018.
Ive listened to the call between Miss H and AXA before she went to the hospital and its 
explained to Miss H that the consultation and treatment are covered by the policy,  but theres  
a cap of £1,000.  Miss H says ok, so its reasonable for AXA to believe  Miss H understood. 
Miss H says that she shouldve been told in advance that she was going to exceed the cap, 
but there was no way AXA couldve  known  what tests a consultant would recommend before 
the consultation happened. And it wasnt  notified  of the costs until afterwards when it 
received the invoices, and it promptly updated Miss H about those costs. AXA mentioned  the 
cap when it spoke to Miss H and I dont  think it could reasonably  be expected  to do more.  
Its worth  nothing  that AXA doesnt  set the costs  charged by the hospital. If Miss H feels that 
she shouldve been told about the actual costs in advance, that is a matter between  her and 
the hospital, not AXA who didnt  provide  the actual medical care. AXA has paid the 
maximum available benefit  under the policy to the hospital.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 
22 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2463156