K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Sytner Group  Ltd misled her about  an agreement she entered  into to 
buy a car.
background
In 2015 Miss D ordered a new car from Sytner  with finance provided by a third party. 
However Sytner made a mistake and ordered a more expensive model than had been 
agreed. Miss D says that it offered to let her have the car at the same  cost as the model she 
had ordered. Recently she has discovered  that although the monthly  payments remained as 
agreed she owes more  on the car than she expected.
She complained to Sytner, but it rejected her complaint and said she had signed  the 
agreement which set out the price.  Miss D brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommend  it be upheld.
She noted the difference in price was some £2,400 and she didnt  think Miss D would have 
agreed to pay for Sytners mistake. She said that Miss D had a history  of buying cars from 
Sytner and changing them before the agreement  came  to an end. Miss D said she replaced 
cars before they needed a MOT. On each  occasion  it appears  that she had agreed a trade in 
value for her old vehicle  and the outstanding finance amount was then rolled into her new 
agreement. So on each occasion there appeared to be an outstanding amount of finance  
payable from the old agreement.
However, there was now a possibility she may be provided with a car by her employer and 
so she was looking at the options  for getting rid of the current car and discovered that she 
had negative equity  of some £3,000.
The investigator thought it possible that the balloon payment  may have  been  adjusted so 
that it was higher, in order to keep the monthly payments around the same amount. 
However, she believed  that although the higher value of the vehicle had been included in the 
finance agreement, this may not have been  obvious  if the agreement  had run to term or if 
she had traded in in the same way as previously. 
The investigator concluded it seemed most  likely there had been a misrepresentation of the 
finance agreement. That said she considered the more expensive  model  would most likely  
be worth  more now. She had referred to valuations of both cars and could see that the initial 
difference in price was matched by the estimated  valuations of the vehicles now.  The effect 
would be that she would  receive  more  for the car when  she trades it in, than if she had been  
sold the car she wanted.
The investigator thought this would  offset  the increase in price. However, even though  she 
may not have lost out in the overall cost the investigator said she would have paid more 
interest on the agreement, as the cost of the vehicle was higher.  She thought it appropriate 
for Sytner  to cover this increased interest cost which she estimated to be £600  as of March  
2019.
Miss D said she thought she should  get the extra  £2,400 back and Sytner carried out more  
detailed calculations. It looked at Miss Ds history  of buying cars and the agreement she 
signed in 2015. It calculated the actual difference in cost was £2,080.19  and that at the flat 
Ref: DRN27429132rate interest of 3.43%  on the agreement came  to £214 over three  years. It offered to make  a 
good will payment  of £250.
The investigator thought a fairer  offer would be to pay the amount of additional interest on 
the £2080  over the term of the agreement, or when the vehicle is handed  back, whichever 
was sooner. And to pay statutory interest  on this amount as Miss D has been  out of pocket.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where necessary and / or appropriate, I 
reach my decision on a balance of probabilities   that is, what I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances.
Although we dont  have  full details of what was agreed  between  Miss D and the salesman I 
think it is sufficiently clear  that the wrong car was ordered and she ended  up with a more 
expensive model.  Like the investigator  I find it hard to conclude  that she would have 
accepted the increased cost without some  accommodation from Sytner. 
It is clear that she believes she wouldnt have to pay the additional  cost,  but I find it difficult 
to believe that the dealer would take the hit for over £2,000. Nevertheless I believe there was 
some understanding that Miss D wouldnt pay the full amount of the extra cost.
Having looked  at her history of car buying I can see that there  is a pattern of negative  equity 
being rolled in to the next deal and if that had continued then I suspect that would have 
happened with the current car. However, as she has apparently changed her car buying 
regime there is a possibility that the negative equity might crystallise. I gather that Miss D will 
have paid off 50% of the cost in a few months in which case  she can voluntarily  terminate 
the agreement  with nothing more to pay. 
I also find myself in agreement with the investigator  that as the car she bought  was with 
more than the one ordered then the resale  value is also greater and so it is difficult to 
quantify any significant loss. 
However, I am satisfied  that she has lost out in respect of the interest  payments  she has 
made and I agree the excess should be refunded  plus interest.  
Ref: DRN27429133my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Sytner Group Ltd to repay  the 
amount of additional  interest paid by Miss D on the £2080 over the term of the agreement,  or 
when the vehicle is handed  back, whichever is sooner. And to pay statutory  interest at 8% 
simple on the refunded  interest from the dates paid until it is repaid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2742913