K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes being helped with his 
complaint by his representatives.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr Z under a hire purchase agreement with Startline that he 
signed in November 2017. The car was more than six and a half years old and its mileage 
was shown as being 86,570 miles. The car broke down when Mr Z was driving  it on the 
motorway about three months later and hes been told that the car isnt repairable. The car 
had to be recovered and its mileage when  it broke  down was 89,389  miles. Mr Z complained 
to the dealer and Startline then arranged for the car to be inspected  by an independent  
expert. He wasnt satisfied with Startlines response so he arranged for the car to be 
inspected by a garage and he then complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that she 
didnt have sufficient  evidence to show that an oil pump fault existed at the point of sale  
and she thought that it was more likely that the fault occurred in the course of Mr Zs use of 
the car.
Mr Zs representative   on his behalf  - has asked for this complaint  to be considered by an 
ombudsman. The representative says, in summary,  that:
the independent expert jumped to a conclusion for which  there was no physical 
evidence in corroboration;
under  the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  if a car doesnt conform  with the requirement 
to be of satisfactory quality within six months of delivery, the non-conformity is 
presumed to have been extant  or in embryonic form at the point of sale;
Startline has provided no evidence which displaces that presumption so the matters  
complained of are taken to have been  present;  and
its unreasonable to find against  Mr Z.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr Z for the difficulties  
that hes been caused as a result of his car breaking down on the motorway - which mustve 
been a distressing experience.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve  complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Although we do take account  of applicable  law and regulations,  we also 
consider the overall situation. So its possible that a court would reach a different outcome to 
the decision that we make.
Theres no dispute that the car broke down about three months after it had been supplied to 
Mr Z  or that hed been able to use the car during that time to drive more  than 2,800 miles 
in it.
Mr Z complained to the dealer  about  the car after it had broken down and the dealer  
forwarded Mr Zs complaint to Startline. Less than two weeks after the car had broken down, 
Ref: DRN29379262Startline arranged for the car to be inspected  by an independent expert. The experts report  
says:
 the vehicle passed an MOT in and around  the date of purchase  with a similar 
mileage, taking this into account the vehicles overall  general  condition and the fact 
there was no definitive proof presented at this time of the inspection  to confirm the 
current issues were present at the point of sale or in development at that point leads 
us to conclusion  that the vehicle was fit for purpose  and of satisfactory  quality for its 
age and reported mileage, the current issues and having developed after the date of 
purchase as a result of in-service general  wear rather than a material failure.
Mr Z then arranged  for the car to be inspected by a garage and in April 2018  it said:
 our findings are that in our opinion, the oil pump has ceased working, and due to 
there being no oil pressure and the engine not being  lubricated, the engine has 
become beyond economical  repair.
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that there was a fault with the 
cars oil pump - or that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  when  it was supplied to Mr Z. 
Mr Z had been able to use the car for nearly three  months and the car had driven more than 
2,800 miles since it was supplied to Mr Z. And I consider it to be more likely than not that, if 
the oil pump  had been faulty when the car was supplied to Mr Z, it wouldve failed sooner 
than it did and that Mr Z wouldnt have been  able to drive more  than 2,800  miles in the car. 
So I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances to say that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Z. And I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require Startline to take the car back, refund to Mr Z the money 
that hes paid for the car or to cancel  his agreement. Nor do I find that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Startline to pay any compensation to Mr Z - or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint. 
Ref: DRN29379263my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2937926