K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that St Andrews Insurance  Plc cancelled a joint life assurance policy  he had 
with his ex-wife.
background
Mr D took out a joint life assurance policy with his now ex-wife  in 2006. In 2008 Mr D went  
into a Halifax branch and asked that he have no further financial connection  with his ex-wife.
St Andrews  says it received a phone call at this time asking for the policy to be cancelled. 
But Mr D says he didnt ask to do this and so the policy shouldnt have been  cancelled.
Our investigator said St Andrews had acted reasonably  in cancelling  the policy.  Mr D didnt 
agree, so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think St Andrews has acted reasonably in cancelling  the policy.  Ill explain 
why below.
Mr D has been clear  throughout  his complaint that he didnt ask for the joint life assurance  
policy to be cancelled when he went  into the Halifax branch. He thinks  the staff member he 
spoke to may have  misinterpreted his request to be financially disconnected from his ex-wife  
as a request to cancel the policy. But the evidence I have from St Andrews doesnt support 
this.
St Andrews  has sent us copies of its internal records relating to the policy. These show  a 
phone call saying Mr D wants to cancel the policy as he has set up a new one. The notes 
are relatively detailed with questions back  and forth and suggest the person speaking  was 
clear that Mr D wanted to cancel the policy. St Andrews  records also show  a new policy in 
Mr Ds sole name was set up around  a week earlier.
St Andrews  has also sent us a copy of a letter sent to Mr D saying the policy  had been 
cancelled. And St Andrews records show the monthly premium for Mr Ds new policy was 
significantly less than the policy for the joint policy. If Mr D hadnt wanted  the policy 
cancelled, I think its reasonable to expect  him to have  queried this either when he received 
this letter  or when the amount of his monthly  payment changed.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Mr D did ask to cancel the joint policy 
and so I think St Andrews  has acted  reasonably  in doing so.
Mr D has mentioned several administration errors that St Andrews has made and incorrect 
information it has given  him. But, despite  these, I still think  the evidence I have suggests its 
likely Mr D did ask to cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN24920132my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  by 7 December 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2492013