complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  policy  taken out in 2004 Mr and Mrs M
say that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the MPPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mr and Mrs Ms complaint explaining that Id come 
to a different outcome  to our adjudicator.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found  in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  confirmed that my provisional decision had been received, 
but that there was nothing else to add to the complaint  so I see no reason to depart  from 
my provisional findings.
my decision
I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  by 4 November 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
K820x#14
Ref: DRN2667455provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy taken out in 2004. Mr 
and Mrs M say that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the policy.
The mortgage  was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr M.
background
When this service first looked at the complaint, our adjudicator thought that it should be upheld.  
Santander challenged  this, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the MPPI  wasnt mis-sold.  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, especially 
as theyve waited so long for their complaint to be resolved, so Ill explain the reasons for this below.
Mr and Mrs M say that they werent  aware  of the MPPI  policy, and that they wouldnt have taken it 
out.
When our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Ms compliant, they felt that it should be upheld.  In broad  
terms they said that Santander hadnt done  enough to show that the MPPI  was an optional product, or 
given Mr and Mrs M a choice in taking out the policy.
Santander disagreed with this  it said that although  it didnt have the paperwork from the time Mr and 
Mrs M applied  for their mortgage and MPPI policy, it did have  a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr M 
shortly after the MPPI policy had been  set up.
Its not unusual for a business not to be able to provide  paperwork from an event that took place so 
long ago  and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely. From Mr and Mrs Ms 
submissions, they dont  recall much from the sale either, but this isnt surprising given 15 years has 
passed since.  So I have to base my decision on the information I do have, and having  done so, I think 
its more likely  that Mr and Mrs M were given  a choice  in taking out the MPPI.
Santander has provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr M in July 2004.  The letter is correctly 
addressed. I can see that this letter  thanks  Mr M for choosing to take out MPPI  and sets out the cost 
and benefit of the policy chosen. It also confirms  that the first three months of cover would be free  
and that payment would then be taken by direct debit from the nominated  bank account.
Had Mr and Mrs M not known anything about MPPI before receiving  this letter, I think  they wouldve  
questioned why they received it. And on balance I think that Santander did make it clear that there 
was a choice in taking out the policy, and that they chose  to do so.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for them
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had 
a need for the cover.
Its possible the information  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was
Ref: DRN2667455K820x#14affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - but these points  dont change my 
decision, and I currently dont plan on upholding  the complaint.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued 
some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy  
 more  than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an 
unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should  
pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were  added to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 2006 explained  that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit  agreements taken out on or after 6 April 
2007, or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008.
Santander has given  me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was taken out in 2004 
and ended in 2006. So based  on what Ive said above,  I dont think  the unfair relationship provisions  
in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules  and guidance made  by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So Santander doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M, and Santander UK Plc can provide anything further for me to consider  by
3 October 2019, after which  Ill issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2667455