K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ls unhappy that she couldnt  see a payment  on her online banking  even  though 
Barclays Bank UK PLC could do so.
background
Mrs L says a £100 payment made  into her account didnt show when she logged onto online 
banking. But when  she called  Barclays it said the payment had been credited to her account. 
Barclays said in its final response that the payment had been credited to Mrs Ls account  on 
1 April 2019. And no bank error had occurred. Various searches are available to a customer 
within online  banking. One is for recent transactions, a second  is for all transactions and 
theres also a scroll down for more transactions further down the page. The printouts Mrs L 
has supplied  dont  cover  the full days transactions  on that date. There  were more  credits 
and payments on that day than are shown on the printouts. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
The printouts  Mrs L has supplied to show what she could see when she logged  onto 
online banking dont  show an overview of the credits  made  into her account. For 
example, the print outs show only five credits  to the account when the full statements 
show eighteen. One of them was the £100  credit  Mrs L refers to.
Theres no indication of any error occurring on Barclays  part. And when Mrs L called 
some days  later she was advised  the £100  credit  was in her account and it wouldve 
been available to her to use. He will not be asking Barclays to do any more.
Barclays has recently confirmed there  was no issue with its online banking  service on 1 April 
2019.
Mrs L remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise how frustrating it wouldve been for Mrs L if she couldnt see a particular payment 
being credited  into her account when she logged onto online banking.  But Ive seen  nothing  
to suggest that this was a result of an error  by Barclays or caused by an issue  with its online 
service on 1 April 2019.  Barclays also confirmed receipt of the payment when she 
subsequently called.
Mrs L asked Barclays for £25 compensation. But as I dont think  on balance  that any issue  
was caused by an error by Barclays or fault in its online systems, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably require it to pay her this, or any, amount of compensation as shed like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN28044372my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2804437