K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to Miss S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  Barclays sold Miss S the 
policy when she applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Miss S has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Barclays made Miss S aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this so many  
years later.  I have  seen  a copy of the credit card application which Miss S signed. On 
it I can see there is a tick, in the PPI section of the form, saying Miss S wanted  PPI. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Ss 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But I dont  think, in her circumstances, full information about costs and benefits 
would have affected whether she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Miss S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN23653782my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2365378