K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains on behalf  of his mother,  Mrs G that a car Mrs G acquired through a Hire 
Purchase Agreement with Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse) cant  be repaired under 
warranty as the documentation Mrs G was given at the point of sale isnt acceptable. Also 
Mrs G feels the car was potentially faulty  at the point of sale. She would like the costs of 
repairs  £8,464.09 - to be covered.
background
Mr W says Mrs G took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement on 25 November 2017 but the car 
was primarily  for Mr Ws use. Mr W said he had no problems until 7 January 2019 when the 
engine started rattling the engine warning light came  on and the oil pressure was low.
Mr W says he took the car back to the dealership and was advised  it needed  repairs  totalling 
£8,000. He says the repairs can be done under warranty  but the dealership is refusing to do 
this. He says he has been told the dealership  cant rely on handwritten details of services.  
And the car hadnt been serviced in accordance  with manufacturers recommendations. 
Mr W says he hasnt exceeded 60,000 miles and the interval between servicing was only on 
month longer  than recommended  guidelines. And that recommended guidelines are just that 
 recommendations  not absolutes. He is also not happy he didnt know the car was an ex 
rental car.
He feels if the service information given at the point of sale isnt sufficient for the warranty to 
be used that the supplying  dealership is at fault and should cover the cost of repairs.
Black Horse  said the car had been  fully serviced  prior to the point  of sale  the last service 
being on 24 October 2017. The car hadnt then been  serviced according to manufacturers 
guidelines which may have resulted in the present problem.  It didnt  feel there was any 
evidence of a fault present or developing at the point of sale for which it was liable. It said it 
had checked with the dealership that was clear it advertised all cars as possible ex-fleet or 
multiple use vehicles.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt  feel there was any evidence of a fault 
at the point of sale. And found the car hadnt been  serviced in accordance with 
manufacturers guidelines.
Black Horse  accepted this view but Mr W on behalf  of Mrs G didnt.  
Mr W said he didnt  feel our adjudicator had looked at how the car had been  sold or what 
happened prior to the point of sale. He is unhappy  he cant use the warranty.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view. She explained  given the 
mileage and the time Mr W had used  the car with no problems there was no evidence of a 
fault present or developing at the point of sale. She didnt feel the fact the car was an ex 
rental vehicle had a detrimental effect on the timing tensioner which  was the problem that 
had been identified. 
She was satisfied the car was sold with a full service  history  and reiterated  the car hadnt 
been serviced in accordance with manufacturers  guidelines. 
Ref: DRN22806212Finally she said the warranty was a separate issue and Mr W would need  to speak to the 
warranty company. She was still of the view that Black Horse hadnt  done anything wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W feels strongly about this and I do understand why. Mrs Gs car is now off the road 
needing £8,000 of repairs which is a significant  sum of money.
I think there are two issues here   firstly is there any evidence  of a problem present or 
developing at the point of sale and secondly the problem   Mrs  G is having with the warranty.
I realise that Mr W and Mrs G are going to be disappointed but unfortunately as our 
adjudicator has correctly advised we cant consider  issues with the warranty.  This needs to 
be raised directly with the warranty company.
In terms of a fault developing or present at the point of sale.  We would broadly say that 
issues that arise within six months of getting  a vehicle might be considered  as present or 
developing at the point of sale. And in these cases we usually expect  the business to prove 
otherwise. With faults that develop after six months the onus is usually on the consumer to 
prove there was a problem at the point of sale.
Mrs G took out her Hire Purchase  Agreement on November  2017. The car was a used car  
approximately 15 months old and with a recorded mileage of 21,000 miles. 
Mr G has been very honest and told us there  were  no problems at all until 7 January  2019  
thats well over a year after Mrs G got the car. And over the time Mr G has had use of the car 
he has driven 23,000 miles.
I dont think there is any dispute that there  is now a problem with the car. I understand the 
timing tensioner has broken up and a warning light to say the oil life is 0%. But I am inclined 
to agree with our adjudicator that the problem is more  likely  due to general wear and tear. 
The fact the car was overdue a service  may not have helped either. 
I know Mr W has made the point that he and Mrs G didnt know the car was an ex rental car. 
The dealership has confirmed that it advertises all its cars with the information that some 
may be ex-fleet or multiple  use cars. So I think that information was available  at the point of 
sale. And I cant see there would have  been any reason to stop either  Mrs G or Mr W asking 
about the history  of the car before Mrs G took out the Hire Purchase  agreement.  
I dont feel the fact the car was an ex-rental  car explains why a problem has arisen  with the 
timing tensioner.
Unfortunately there is no evidence to show this problem was present or developing at the 
point of sale. If it had been I would have  expected  the problem to have manifested itself 
sooner. So I dont feel that I have any grounds  to ask Black Horse  to either cover the cost of 
the repairs or as an alternative to allow Mrs G to reject the car.
Ref: DRN22806213my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019
Bridget Makins
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN2280621