K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Gain Credit  LLC,  previously  Lending Stream,  lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mrs K six instalment loans between October 2016 and September 
2017. All the loans were repayable in six monthly instalments. Mrs K has repaid  all of the 
loans. A summary  of Mrs Ks lending with Lending Stream  is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of monthly  
repayments
at outsetdate repaid
17 Oct 2016
2012120 6 9 Nov 2016 
2016ctober 2012 223 Jan 2017 450 5 29 Jan 2017 
20172017ovember 21012
312 Jul 2017 
20172017August 2012 100 6 14 Jul 2017
414 Jul 2017 
October 2012250 6 6 Nov 2017
523 Sept 2017  
20September2
0172017100 6 6 Nov 2017
623 Sept 2017 60 6 16 Oct 2017
Mrs K says that these  loans made  her financial  position worse and she was borrowing from 
other short term lenders.  
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mrs Ks complaint. She thought that Lending Stream 
shouldnt have given  Mrs K the last two loans as her borrowing pattern suggested she was 
reliant on these loans. Lending Stream agreed  with the adjudicator  and offered to refund all 
interest and charges on the last two loans.
Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicator in relation to loan 4. She said:
Lending Stream gave  her this loan the same day as she repaid loan 3 and this 
should have raised  alarm bells as it was for a larger  amount.
She had also taken out another payday  loan at the relevant  time.
She has another complaint about a different payday lender which  has concluded that 
a loan shouldnt  have been given  to her at the same time as loan 4.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure
Ref: DRN23280392Mrs K could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mrs K could sustainably  repay  her loans, 
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular that the customer should be 
able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows
that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont  
be able to make their repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without  borrowing  further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint. Having  done  so, I agree with the 
adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
In relation to loans  one to three, given the loan amounts, the level of repayments and what  
was apparent about Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending  Stream  to ask Mrs K for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information  Mrs K provided  or 
the information Lending Stream  shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate for it start verifying what Mrs K was saying about her finances.  Mrs K hasnt 
disagreed with the adjudicator about  this so I will concentrate on loan 4.
In relation to loan four, it is correct that Mrs K took this out the same day as repaying loan 3. 
Loan 3 was taken out nearly  six months after loan 2 was repaid and was repaid within  two 
days when taking out loan 4. This pattern does not suggest that Mrs K couldnt afford to 
repay the loan but rather that she wanted to borrow a higher amount  than originally asked 
for.
Ref: DRN23280393I cant say that this in itself should have alerted Lending Stream  that Mrs K was potentially  in 
difficulty. There was nothing in her previous  borrowing history for loans 1 and 2 that would 
suggest that she was having difficulty managing  her money or that she wouldnt be able to 
repay the higher amount. I dont doubt  that Mrs K was in financial difficulty and had taken out 
other payday lending at the time. But I dont think that it as proportionate for Lending Stream  
to carry out the level of checking that would have established this.
   
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her complaint 
about loan 4. I appreciate that Mrs K feels that any lending to her at this point was 
irresponsible given  the decision in relation to her other complaint. But each  complaint  is 
different and what is required of each lender is dependent on a number of factors as I have 
outlined above.  
I think that at the point  of loans 5 and 6 which were taken out when  loan 4 was still running 
Lending Stream shouldve  taken  steps  to build a more detailed  picture of Mrs Ks financial 
situation. If it had done  so, I agree  with the adjudicator that it wouldnt have given Mrs K 
loans 5 and 6. By the point of loan 6 the overall  pattern  of Mrs Ks lending history with 
Lending Stream indicates that it should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Gain Credit  LLC should:
A. Add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mrs K towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, including any payments made to a third party  if applicable but 
not including  anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mrs K which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs K originally made  the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mrs K the total of A plus B.
D. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ks credit file for loan 5. The overall 
pattern of Mrs K's borrowing for loan six means  any information recorded about  it is adverse, 
so this loan should be removed from Mrs K's credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit  LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain  
Credit LLC must give Mrs K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2328039