K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complaint relates to a claim she made  on her home insurance policy with 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).  Mrs D was informed by the local water  supplier 
the water  main supplying  her home  was leaking  within the boundary  of her property. Mrs D is 
unhappy L&G wont reimburse her fully for the works  she had done.
background
Mrs D was told by the water authority she had a leak on the water supply to her home, which 
she was responsible for stopping. She called in a firm of engineers  to help her with the 
problem. 
The engineers said there was a leak on the incoming water supply pipe between the outside 
sluice valve (OSV) situated  in the lawn and the two inside sluice  valves  (ISV) which  were  
situation in the kitchen  and the downstairs toilet respectively. The engineering firm said to 
Mrs D it had been unable  to locate the leak using non-obstructive leak detection methods 
(no detail of what was done  is documented).  It went on to explain that in its experience the 
prudent and cost effective way to deal with the problem was to lay a new supply pipe. It 
indicated if the leak was beneath the floor inside the building, replacing the pipe was the only 
option.
The engineers went on to further  encourage Mrs D to replace the water pipe rather than 
repair it as it said her insurer  was likely  to want to do (as it would be cheaper) by telling her 
that such a repair would  blight her property  and could cause problems if she ever sold her 
home. It then quoted  her £1,250 plus VAT to lay a new water  supply pipe. 
Mrs D made  a claim to L&G, but informed  L&Gs  contractor  when it first called her that she 
wanted to have her own engineers do the works  which had already been recommended.
L&G asked its own contractor to consider  the details of the claim. It said,  based on the 
information Mrs Ds engineers had provided,  it couldnt establish what investigations  it 
undertook or where the leak was located.  As it was unaware of anything happening to the 
pipe, it was likely the leak was due to the pipe deteriorating over time.
The contractor went on to say that based on the information it had received from Mrs Ds 
engineers L&G was liable to find the leak and fix it if it was on the below ground water  
supply. If the leak was located inside  the property, however,  there was no trace and access 
cover for finding the leak. Only the repair would be covered. As such, the liability  would be 
capped at £810 (inclusive of VAT) because it would only repair  the pipe after the leak had 
been found.
L&G made an offer to Mrs D. It said it paid out a standard amount of £810 including VAT 
(less the excess) in cases where no evidence of the insured damage is submitted and the 
consumers contractor has proposed a new supply  pipe rather than a repair.  
One of our adjudicators considered Mrs Ds complaint.  She didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mrs D didnt accept her view and asked  for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
Ref: DRN21941812I considered the evidence  in this case and issued a provisional decision on 16 January  2019. 
In that document I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. Below  is an 
excerpt of that document. 
Mrs D was informed by the water authority that there was a leak on the mains  water pipe 
she was responsible for, which  provided  mains water to her home.  The leak was identified 
as being between an outside valve and one of two valves  inside her home.  The information 
from Mrs Ds engineers  shows that the pipe in question ran through her garden and into the 
house in the kitchen. It then spurred off and went  to two different  points  in the house, where 
the inside  valves  were located  one in the kitchen close  to the outside wall of the house and 
one in the downstairs toilet at the rear of the property.
This means  that the leak could  have  been either in the ground outside the home or under the 
floor within the home. Establishing where  the leak was, would determine which peril the 
claim would have to be dealt with under and what cover would be available  to Mrs D. 
If the leak was located  in the ground outside  of the building, the claim would have  needed to 
be made under the accidental breakage to underground pipes or cables servicing  the 
property. This cover  would provide for repairing the pipe and restoring any damage caused 
to the plot on which  Mrs Ds house  sat that had been caused by the repair.
However, if the leak was on the pipes inside the house Mrs D would not have been able to 
claim under this peril,  because it only covers pipes and cables outside the house. Once the 
pipe went beneath  the floor inside the house, damage to the pipe wouldnt usually be 
covered unless it fell under the accidental damage to buildings peril. Whilst these perils 
sound very similar, there are some differences. 
Mrs D didnt immediately call in her insurance  company, but rather  hired a firm of engineers 
to look into the matter. That firm states  it did some  testing to locate the leak, but no details 
have been supplied about what it did or what its findings were. It moved to suggest that the 
pipe simply be replaced  immediately. However, the insurer,  irrespective of the peril claimed 
under, would only ever have been liable to repair  the pipe under the terms of the policy.
Mrs Ds representative has made various  comments about this services  approach  to such 
claims. I would firstly  clarify that the approach he is referring to is that for claims made  under 
the peril covering pipes outside  the footprint of the house. In general, for such claims we 
consider that something physical must have happened to the pipe to have caused the leak.  
Where there is no clear physical  evidence  that the claim is excluded (for example because  a 
pipe has rusted through rather than been impacted  by something outside of itself) we would 
expect an insurer to accept the claim. However, this is for external pipes where knowing 
exactly what happened (simply  because it is outside) is difficult. 
Where the pipe is inside  the property, where the policyholder has control and knowledge  of 
what happens, we would  expect to see some  type of explanation of the cause of damage. 
The claim would then only be payable if the cause of the damage  fell under the definition of 
accidental damage   something physical happening that was sudden,  unexpected and 
unintentional  for example a nail being driven through  the pipe when flooring was being  
laid. In addition, as there  isnt trace  and access cover included in the buildings cover, any 
damage caused when finding  and accessing the leaking  pipe,  wouldnt  be covered by the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN21941813So the location of the leak is key to a claim  being  made on Mrs Ds policy. Her 
representative has made much of the fact that L&Gs contractors didnt attend the property. 
Technically, it is for a policyholder  to evidence that they have a valid claim. However, usually 
evidencing whether there  is a valid claim or not is a joint endeavour between  the 
policyholder and the insurer. 
In this case the insurers representative  didnt  attend  the property and complete 
investigations. I am not surprised in the circumstances  and I dont think  L&G or its contractor  
did anything wrong.  By the time L&G and its contractor were involved with the matter, Mrs D 
had already had her engineers out to assess the situation. She also immediately told the 
L&G contractors that she didnt want them involved in the repairs and was following the 
advice her engineers  had given. 
Mrs Ds engineers had documented that it had investigated the leak and having done so, 
recommended a course of action. Whilst the nature of the investigations werent  detailed  in 
the quote to Mrs D, there would be no reason to think that the engineer wouldnt provide 
more detail if asked.  As such, and not unreasonably, L&Gs  contractor concluded that it 
would be able to assess the claim based on the engineers investigations and findings. This 
isnt an unusual approach on smaller claims where  consumers have involved industry 
professionals before  the insurer has had the opportunity to become involved. 
Given the comments Mrs Ds engineers made about insurers and liability, it is clear that it 
has some  understanding  of insurance contracts  and the requirements of insurers in relation 
to claims.  As such, I am sure that it would have known that Mrs D would need to evidence  
where the leak was  inside or outside the house. It appears that by the time L&Gs 
contractors became aware  that Mrs Ds engineers wouldnt be providing information  about its 
investigations and finding, there was no alternative available as the works to re-route the 
water supply had been  completed. Once  the water  supply  had ceased  being supplied 
through the old pipe, identifying where  it had been leaking would have been difficult  if not 
impossible.
In addition, as Mrs D was intending to have  works  done that werent covered by the 
insurance policy, the insurer would only ever have  made a contribution.  Such a contribution 
would be determined based on the cost to L&G if its own contractors had done a repair.  If 
Mrs Ds engineers were more expensive in general and were doing more  work than L&G 
were liable for, Mrs D would always have had to pay the difference. 
As I have said above, once the works Mrs Ds engineers had proposed  were  complete, it 
was impossible to determine where  the leak was and what, if anything,  L&Gs liability  was. 
So L&G made a standard  offer that it makes  in all such situations.  Given  L&Gs liability  
hadnt been established, it didnt  need  to do this. It appears it does so on the basis that, but 
for the circumstances,  there is a reasonable possibility that it would have a liability for some  
sort of repairs. The offer made is £810 including VAT (less the policy  excess).  I consider that 
L&Gs offer is entirely reasonable in the circumstances where it is unclear whether there  is 
any liability  engaged  under the insurance  policy.
policy details 
Mrs Ds policy is a perils-based policy (one which pays out only when damage  is caused by 
specific events known  as perils) to which she added extended accidental  damage cover and 
home emergency cover.
Ref: DRN21941814Accidental Damage  is defined as Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical damage 
that can be seen. 
Accidental Breakage  is defined as Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical breakage 
that can be seen. 
Buildings is defined  as the home and its permanent fixtures. This includes  permanently 
connected drains, pipes and cables  for which the homeowner is responsible and which  are 
sited within the boundaries of the land belonging  to the home.
The terms and conditions  state the buildings are insured against loss or damage caused by 
various things, which  are usually described  as perils. Included  in the list of perils  is 
accidental breakage to underground  pipes or cables  serving  the buildings and accidental  
damage to buildings.
responses to provisional  decision
L&G accepted my decision and had no further evidence it wanted  considered.
Mrs Ds representative didnt accept  my provisional  decision.  It provided  its comments and 
those of Mrs Ds engineers.
The engineers provided comment on what it had done to establish  where  the water leak 
was. It said it had completed an extensive survey which involved examining the lawn to see 
if there were  any areas where water was coming  to the surface, as it would  expect to see if 
there was a water leak beneath the lawn. It saw none. As such, it marked  out the route of the 
water main  under the external hardstanding and internally in Mrs Ds home. Using a ground 
mic the engineer  listened for sounds of a leak every half-meter along the length of the pipe.  
He said that within the footprint of the property he heard the sound  of gushing water  beneath  
the building. No contemporaneous site visit report or notes have been provided  to support 
these recollections. 
The engineer then went on to say the pipe couldnt  be repaired in the circumstances. It said 
to dig through  the floor slab would contravene the Building Regulation Act and any pipe 
found couldnt be repaired by any means  as this action would contravene the Water 
Regulation Act 1990. Renewal in such circumstances would be the only option. 
The engineer asked me to apologise  for saying it encouraged Mrs D to replace the water  
pipe. It denied doing so and stated  it is factual and verifiable that having the water pipe 
repaired would be a blight  on her property. It provided no documentation  to support or verify 
its statement. 
The engineers commented L&G made a derisory offer without even visiting  the site. It went  
on to comment L&G had plenty of time to visit the property, but chose not to do so. It also 
offered to reconnect the leaking pipe so that L&Gs contractors could trace the leak.  
The engineers made  various comments about  the evidencing of the claim and interpretation 
of the policy  terms and conditions. It also said Mrs D had asked it to help her with the 
insurance claim and formulate a report for insurance  purposes.  It believed my intention in 
noting Mrs D had contacted it before L&G was an attempt to imply there was skulduggery 
afoot. That was not the case and Mrs D contacted it simply because she had searched for 
an appropriately qualified/authorised  expert on the internet.
Ref: DRN21941815Mrs Ds representative disagreed with my interpretation of the perils which could be relevant 
to the claim Mrs D made. However, it considers she has a valid claim whichever peril 
applies. It said that if more economic, Mrs D would have been  entitled to a replacement 
water supply, rather than a repair to the existing one and L&G had failed to evidence a repair  
could be done,  so it should  pay for the replacement. The representative  expressed  the 
opinion the reason the location  of the leak wasnt identified was because  Insurers and their 
suppliers were lackadaisical  and had no intention of attending  and sought  to 
unreasonably reduce  Insurers  outlay by not investigating  properly  themselves, desk topping 
the claim,  and applying  arbitrary notional costs. 
It was also raised that this services approach to cash settlements  is that where an insurer 
choses to cash settle, it cannot  calculate the settlement using its own suppliers rates. The 
relevant section of the insurance  policy was highlighted. It doesnt  consider L&G had the 
right under the policy terms  and conditions to make  the offer it did. It said there was no 
requirement under the policy for Mrs D to evidence the cause of the leak.  It went  on to 
explain the urgency  of resolving the water  leak. 
L&G was sent a copy of the engineers  further submissions in the event the comments about 
the investigations and the new statement that the leak was inside the footprint of the house, 
would alter its assessment of the claim and its offer.  It didnt. It stated  it was still unknown 
where the water leak had been. It also clarified  that the first of the Acts the engineer had 
referenced didnt relate to the repair of an existing water installation, but rather to the 
installation of a new one. 
As for a possible breach  in building regulations,  it said it couldnt comment as it hadnt been 
specified which section  of building regulations would be contravened.  It went  on to say the 
concept of no repair being allowed on an existing water installation  was not sensible and it 
was unreasonable to suggest total replacement was necessary in all cases.  Indeed, it noted 
water authorities completed localised repairs on their own and private  water  supplies. L&G 
reiterated that unless the location of the leak was known, it would have been impossible to 
know whether it could have been  repaired or not.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  the further  comments  
from the parties, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially comment in response  to Mrs Ds representatives comments  about the 
actions of L&G and Mrs Ds responsibility  under the policy. As I said in my provisional 
decision, technically under the terms of the insurance policy, it is Mrs Ds responsibility to 
evidence to her insurer  she has a valid claim.  That would go beyond supplying  just the 
notice from the water  authority confirming a leak on a pipe she is responsible for. However, 
good industry practice would usually dictate the burden was shared between her and her 
insurer. 
That said,  in a situation like this one, it wouldnt be unusual for an insurer  to rely on the 
investigations which had already been  carried out by Mrs Ds own engineers. It would 
reasonably be assumed  that in order to make a recommendation about what  works she 
should have done, her contractor would have investigated the situation thoroughly. In which 
case, an insurer would usually consider there  would be no point in replicating works already 
done. This isnt an unreasonable position. It would also be usual for the consumers experts  
Ref: DRN21941816to provide evidence  to the insurer to support the claim, which  I note the firm of engineers has 
said Mrs D asked it to do  to produce a report to support her claim.  I dont consider this 
approach to be lackadaisical nor that it demonstrates L&G wasnt willing  to deal with the 
claim. Indeed if that were the case,  I wouldnt have expected it to appoint  a contractor.
As for Mrs Ds representatives comments about  the rates L&Gs  offer was calculated  using; 
it is correct where an insurer decides  to settle  a claim in cash, it has to ensure the consumer 
has sufficient to complete  the repairs. However, in this case the insurer  didnt decide to settle 
the claim in cash.  It appointed a contractor,  but Mrs D had already  decided she wanted  her 
own engineers  to do the work. This would be considered the consumer asking for a cash  
settlement. In those  circumstances the insurer would be entitled to settle based  on the 
amount it would have  had to pay for the repair, whether that was based  on preferential rates 
or not. 
I have reviewed all of the comments about what could or couldnt  be done in relation to the 
leaking pipe.  It seems  implausible to me it would be a breach of building regulations  to dig 
into (and subsequently repair)  a floor slab. Indeed I have seen many  cases  where this has 
been necessary  and at no point has any concern been raised about breaches  in building 
regulations. Also, having read various documents regarding water installations in order to 
determine which account of the requirements  is correct, I think  it more  likely that L&Gs 
experts comments are. Those being  that the requirements Mrs Ds engineers are applying 
are those for installing new water supply  pipes rather than covering  repairs to existing ones. 
It does seem unlikely that a repair would not be allowed where possible.
So it remains that we have no contemporaneous  records from the time the leak was 
investigated to determine where the leak was and whether it could be repaired. It leads on 
from there; it is unknown whether if a repair could be done,  how much  it would  have cost and 
whether replacement would have been  more economical.
The situation  is that it is unknown what L&Gs liability actually  is, and its not realistically 
possible to establish  it at this point. For clarity, I dont consider the offer to reconnect  the old 
supply pipe is a practical solution to this question. As such,  I remain satisfied that L&Gs  
offer is reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept  or reject my decision 
before 20 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2194181