K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the way BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) treats the excess  on her 
policy and the impact this has on any treatments which have a benefit limit.
background
Miss S has a medical insurance policy with BUPA.  It has various  limitations including a £500 
limit for outpatient therapies each year. There is also a £500 policy excess which the 
claimant must pay towards any claims for eligible treatment.  
Miss S is unhappy with the way BUPA treats the excess on her policy and the impact this 
has on any treatments which have a benefit  limit.
She feels that BUPA are taking the excess into account and reducing her cover  on top of 
this. And she feels this causes her a financial loss and wasnt something that has been  
made clear to her.
Miss S complained to BUPA. It didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint explaining that the 
membership guide  is clear that the excess erodes the outpatient benefit limit. It gave an 
example - if a customer had a £500  allowance  for outpatient therapies and a £500 excess, 
then if the first claims it receives in a new policy year are for outpatient  therapies,  itd apply 
the excess to these claims.  If the value of the claims for outpatient  therapies  is equal to or 
greater than £500, and BUPA has applied the £500  excess to these claims, then the 
customer will have  used up the benefit  limit for therapies in that policy  year.
It also explained that where  an excess  had already been applied during  a policy  year to 
claims other  than outpatient  therapies, the excess wouldnt have eroded the outpatient 
therapies allowance.
Miss S was unhappy  with this and brought  her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and listened  to some of the calls Miss S had with BUPA. 
She felt the policy terms are clear that the excess would have an impact  on all benefits  
which have a limit. She was also satisfied BUPA has applied  the excess correctly in line with 
Miss Ss policy terms. She explained that Miss Ss membership  certificate  states that it 
should be read together with the membership guide. And because this sets out the details of 
her benefits,  she wouldnt  expect an advisor to cover every detail of the policy over the 
phone as the membership guide  is provided for that purpose. So, taking everything into 
account, she didnt  uphold his complaint.
Miss S didnt feel that the investigator had fully understood  her perspective.  She responded 
to say that, in November  2017, she had an x-ray. This cost just under £294.34. As this was 
below her excess, Miss S paid this in full. Miss S also has cover under her policy  for 
outpatient therapies, such as physiotherapy. But she says BUPA would only allow her to 
claim £205.66 towards outpatient therapies. 
So she feels that BUPA are taking the excess into account and reducing her cover on top of 
this. And she feels this causes her a financial loss and wasnt something that has been  
made clear to her.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN22359032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss S that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The membership certificate provides details of the level of cover, and shows that the 
limitation for outpatient  therapies is £500. It also clearly states that the excess payable is 
£500 and applies  each year for treatment costs for eligible treatment. 
The membership certificate also states  it must be read alongside the membership guide. 
Section E of the membership guide  refers to the policy  excess. 
E1  How an excess or co-insurance works  says Having an excess  means that you have 
to pay part of any eligible  treatment costs that would  otherwise be paid by us.  
E2 goes on to say when you claim for eligible  treatment costs  under a benefit that has a 
benefit limit your excess  amount will count  towards your total benefit  limit for that benefit . 
So I think this makes  it clear how the excess works and its impact on those policy  benefits 
which have a limit.
In the scenario Miss S has described, where  a claim is made for an x-ray under a part of the 
policy (irrespective of whether this part had a benefit limit) for £294.34 and Miss S pays this 
in full (her excess  being £500) and then made a claim for physiotherapy under the outpatient 
therapies section of her policy (which  has a benefit limit of £500), she would  need  to pay the 
first £205.66  of the claim for physiotherapy. Once  shes paid this, she will have  paid her full 
excess of £500  for the policy year.
This would reduce her benefit under the outpatient  therapies by the same amount - the £500 
benefit limit for outpatient therapies  would be reduced by £205.66. But, this would still leave 
her with a benefit  limit of £294.34  remaining for outpatient therapies  in the policy  year. And, 
in this particular  example,  any further eligible outpatient therapies treatment in that policy 
year up to £294.34 would be covered by BUPA in full.
To be clear, any claim - even where the excess covers the full cost of that claim - will always 
affect the limit (if there is one) of that particular area of the policy up to the total amount 
claimed. But it wont affect any other limits in the policy.
Bupa wouldnt, for example, bring  over the excess from the x-ray claim of £294.34 and 
reduce the benefit limit for outpatient therapies to £0. 
While I understand why Miss S would like me to see things  her way, I dont agree that I can 
say BUPA  has been unfair. It has applied, and says it will continue  to apply, the excess  in 
Ref: DRN22359033line with both the policy documentation  and according to the explanations given in its 
communications with Miss S.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2235903