K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited is responsible for poor service  in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
In November 2017 Mr M took out a British  Gas policy. It covered his central heating  boiler  
and controls. In November 2018 the policy automatically renewed. British Gas visited in 
January 2019.  Mr M complained that British Gas asked him to pay two excesses of £60.00 
each. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that 
British Gas acted unfairly. He didnt think British Gas was wrong to charge two excesses as 
it conducted two different  repairs.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that  in its final response letter   British Gas admitted that 
it hadnt adequately explained the excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response letter  in February  2019, British Gas referred  to its sales call with Mr M in 
November 2017.  The letter included  the following:
 our adviser  did not go in to detail on what having  the excess  payment meant, 
however, as we have  sent copies of our Terms & Conditions we cannot agree we 
havent provided you with this information.
I dont find that an admission of failing to provide adequate information.  In any event, British  
Gas has provided us with the recording of the sales  call. From  that, Im satisfied that British 
Gas told Mr M that he would pay the excess towards every completed repair.
The product  summary  document  also said he would  have  to pay the excess  for each 
completed repair or replacement. And thats what the policy terms said. So Im satisfied that 
British Gas provided enough information for Mr M to make an informed decision to take the 
policy in November 2017.
British Gas did a first visit in about November 2017.
The policy renewed  in November 2018. And on 26 January 2019, British Gas did an annual 
service and some repair work.  It replaced  two components.  One was the printed circuit  
board. The other was a valve that was a component of the pressure vessel.
From the British Gas invoice, I can understand that Mr M questioned why it charged  the 
£60.00 excess  twice.
Ref: DRN21399872But Im satisfied that British Gas completed two separate repairs  or replacements. So I dont 
find it unfair that British  Gas charged two excesses  of £60.00  each. And I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to waive or refund one of those charges  or to do anything  
further in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2139987