K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he financed through an agreement with RCI Financial  Services 
Limited (RCI) was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
background
Mr B took receipt of a new vehicle in July 2013.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. But in January 2019  he complained  to RCI as hed found 
corrosion under the car where  a hole had appeared.  
RCI explained that they had a right to repair the car but Mr B wouldnt take it to the 
dealership. He asked an independent engineer to provide an opinion and he said the car 
wasnt roadworthy because of the large rust hole. 
The dealership and the manufacturers corrosion specialist reviewed the pictures Mr B sent 
of the problem. But they thought the problem was caused by external influences that it 
wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible for. 
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
noted that the independent engineer had explained  that there was a neat cut to the 
nearside of the floor plan and that this appears  to have been induced due to some form of 
physical intervention, potentially and angle grinderthe cut formation is perfect  and has 
been purposely undertaken.  The engineer said that thered been an attempt  to conceal the 
cut with stone chip protector and it was likely the cut was longstanding although he couldnt 
say when it was likely  to have occurred. She wasnt persuaded that there was evidence this 
hole was present  when  Mr B took receipt  of the car. She noted  that there was no mention of 
it on the 2018 MOT and she thought that if it were  present it wouldve been  referred  to. So 
she didnt think it would  be fair to suggest the problem had been there from the beginning.
She told Mr B that RCI were willing to take a look at the car at an approved  dealership. She 
understood that Mr B wasnt prepared to pay to get his car transported that far but she didnt 
think there was currently any evidence that RCI were at fault so she thought it was fair for 
Mr B to accept responsibility  for any transportation costs.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion  and he asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. He said she hadnt considered the other rust that the independent  engineer 
had highlighted  on the car and that it was conceivable the hole the engineer referred to had 
been created  in the manufacturing process. So he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN21143392Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI are responsible 
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  In the first instance theyd be 
required to repair the car.
But RCIs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
I understand that Mr B disputes the communication records but, from the evidence I have, 
the first report from him of any issue with the vehicle to RCI was at the end of January 2019. 
Thats almost six years from the point of supply and Id therefore  expect  Mr B to be able to 
demonstrate the issue  was developing  at the inception of the finance deal.
But Im not persuaded thats the case because:
the independent engineer has suggested  the car has been cut and I think thats  very 
unlikely to have  happened in the manufacturing  process
if it was cut in the manufacturing process  I think its likely it would have been spotted 
in the two MOTs that have subsequently been completed but it hasnt been and the 
independent engineer  has explained  that its unlikely the car would pass an MOT in 
this condition so it would seem the cut has most likely happened  at some point since 
the last MOT
Ive not been provided with evidence to demonstrate  the rust elsewhere  is likely to 
have been developing at the point of supply and I note RCI are prepared  to attend to 
the rust if theyre  allowed  to inspect and confirm  it
RCI have not been  allowed to review  the damage. Given the amount of time thats  
elapsed I think its reasonable for them to expect Mr B to arrange to get the car to a 
dealership at his expense  as its for him to demonstrate  that the problem was pre-
existing
So Im not persuaded there  was a fault with Mr B s car at the point of supply and I therefore 
dont think it would be fair to ask RCI to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2114339