K820x#14complaint
Ms D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy along with her 
mortgage. 
Aviva Insurance Limiteds accepted responsibility  for the sale which  was carried  out by one 
of its tied agents. In this decision, Ill just refer to Aviva  as the seller.
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint, which  included  the following:
Ms D took out a mortgage  in 2003  and also bought a PPI policy protecting her mortgage  
payments if she wasnt working due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  They  felt there  wasnt enough 
evidence to show Ms D was given the opportunity to actively  select  the policy  or that it was 
presented to her as a separate, optional product. 
Aviva disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Ms Ds case.
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, the PPI was sold some years  ago which means  much  of the information from 
the relevant times no longer available. That being the case,  Ive thought  carefully about what  
Ms Ds said, including  that she was made to feel that she had to take the insurance out to 
get the mortgage. On the other hand, Avivas  defended the sale of the policy  in this regard. 
Obviously I cant know for sure what was discussed,  but I havent  seen  anything  to suggest 
that was the impression Aviva gave her at the time.
I havent seen  a copy of the application form that Aviva says would have been completed  for 
the PPI but I do have  a copy of Avivas acceptance  letter to Ms D dated  April 2003. I note the 
language used and this including the following:
Further to your application for insurance  we have pleasure in enclosing  a personalised 
Certificate of Insurance together with a copy of the full Policy Terms and Conditions.
The letter goes on to say that Ms D opted  to include disability cover and also set out the 
monthly premium. The enclosed certificate  of insurance provided  details  of how the PPI had 
been set up, including  the total monthly benefit and the maximum benefit period.
While the letter would  have been  sent after the application for PPI was made, it does 
suggest to me that Ms D was made  aware she had the option  to refuse PPI and that she 
nevertheless decided to go ahead with it by completing an application.
Ref: DRN29376872Overall, Ive not seen  anything that shows Aviva didnt make  Ms D aware the PPI was 
optional. So having considered all the submissions Ive received in this case, I think its more 
likely that Aviva would have made Ms D aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose 
to take it, even though she might not remember the sale going that way now.
Ms D says Aviva recommended the PPI to Ms D. If it did, Aviva needed to take reasonable 
steps to find out about her needs and make sure the PPI was suitable for her. I think  any 
recommendation Aviva made was right for Ms D based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
I dont have a copy of the policy  terms that applied to the sale but, from experience  of 
what the policy likely said, Ive seen  nothing to make me think Ms D wasnt  eligible 
for the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have  been affected by any of the main 
things the PPI likely didnt cover.
Ms D said shed  have got some  sick pay from her employer but the PPI would have 
covered her for longer,  at up to 12 months per claim, and for unemployment  too. She 
said she had no other formal means of meeting her mortgage repayments  if she 
wasnt working. Considering all of this, and the potentially serious  consequences  of 
defaulting on a loan secured on her home, I think Ms D could have found  the PPI 
useful. 
The PPI appears  to have been  affordable for Ms D. And it was flexible in that the 
monthly premiums could be cancelled at any time if Ms D decided it was no longer 
suitable for her. 
As well as checking that the PPI was right for Ms D, Aviva also had to give her clear  enough 
information about the PPI so she could decide  if she wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Aviva gave Ms D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But, for 
the same  reasons Ive given as to why I think the PPI was suitable  for her, I dont think  better 
information would have stopped her from buying  it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont consider that Ms Ds lost out because  of how Aviva 
sold her the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
Aviva didnt reply. Ms D didnt  have  anything further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Ms Ds case.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
Ref: DRN29376873I set out in some detail  in my provisional decision why I wasnt minded to uphold  Ms Ds 
complaint. Given that neither partys  sought to challenge that decision, or provide new 
evidence or information for me to consider, I see no need to depart from it now.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2937687