K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Ms S says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms S took out on a store  card account in November 
1996. It was added to her account  when she applied  for the card whilst shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  In 
summary, Ms S mainly says that she wasnt given any information or advice  in relation to the 
PPI policy  which was attached to her account  without her knowledge  or consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Ms S is certain about what shes told us. But what  she says isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have to look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely.
FICL has given us a copy of the store card application from the time of sale. I dont know 
what mightve been said about  the PPI. But I think it wouldve  been  clear from the paperwork 
that optional PPI was available   and it was up to Ms S to say if she wanted to have PPI 
added on. 
Ms S ticked the PPI box next to where theres  a brief description  of the cover and it says 
Yes, I want my Account  covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance  ... 
I would expect Ms S to have checked  over the form carefully before signing up to this 
account  so I think she wouldve seen the PPI information which is reasonably  clearly  set 
out on the form. She couldve  crossed  through the PPI part of the form or left the box 
unticked if she hadnt wanted  PPI. 
Ms S signed the completed application. So I think this suggests  she agreed with the 
information on the form at the time.  
On balance, based on the information  Ive seen, I think  Ms S was aware the policy  was 
optional and it was added  to her account when she chose to take it out. 
As Ms S made this application in a store I dont  think a recommendation was made by FICL. 
This means that FICL  didnt have to check if the policy  was suitable for her. But it still needed  
to make sure it gave  Ms S enough  clear information to decide if the policy was right for her, 
taking into account  her personal circumstances.
Ref: DRN24678302Its possible the information FICL  gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Ms S wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy,  if 
better information had been provided.  
On balance I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped Ms S taking out the PPI.
Ms S has told us she had some sick pay, as well as shares and savings that she couldve  
relied on if she wasnt working. But this policy wouldve  paid out in addition  to sick pay and 
covered her store card payments for longer - as long as Ms S was off work sick. She 
wouldve only been able to rely on getting discretionary sick pay after 6 months  off work. So 
the policy provided her with dependable cover  and it couldve cleared her card balance if 
shed been unable to return to work. 
The policy also provided cover if Ms S lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know if Ms S wouldve always had shares  or savings  to fall back  on if she wasnt able 
to work. In the event of a successful claim,  the policy couldve kept on paying out until her 
store card balance was cleared in full, meaning  Ms S could keep any savings and 
investments intact  to cover other expenses or provide financial security for the future. And 
although she also had life assurance, this sort of policy was intended to provide  a different 
sort of cover.  Having PPI meant she wasn't  at risk of having to cash this in just to pay her 
store card.
The policy provided  more  dependable cover  than relying on other people to help out in the 
event of money problems  as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Ms S couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  
 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look like any of the main policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected  Ms S. So I dont think  having more  information 
about these policy terms wouldve  changed  her mind about taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Ms S clear  enough information  about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But she chose  to take out the policy when she didnt have to and indicated  on the 
application she signed that she was happy  to pay for it. So this suggests  she seems  to have 
wanted it at the time, even if shes forgotten this now. Looked  at overall, given the benefits  
PPI offered  Ms S, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different  decision  if better  
information had been provided.  
On balance I think she still wouldve taken  out the policy. So I dont find that Ms S has lost 
out as a result of anything that FICL did wrong   and theres nothing it needs to do to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN24678303my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467830