1complaint
Mr P complained about a pension mortgage  with National Westminster  Bank  Plc. He is being 
represented by a CMC. They said the pension mortgage was very risky for Mr P and that the 
risks werent explained. They also said that no alternatives were  discussed with him.
background
I issued my provisional decision for this complaint on 19 July 2019, a copy of which  is attached 
to and forms part of this final decision.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision.
The CMC asked for more  time for Mr P to submit  evidence. He has been looking after his wife 
and requested more  time. A subject access request (SAR)  has also been made to NatWest, but 
this was addressed  to the wrong part of the business; a response  has still not been received.
I asked NatWest to confirm that we have received all of the evidence  about Mr Ps mortgage. 
They provided written confirmation  that they have  provided their response  based on all of the 
evidence they have. 
The CMC replied that Mr P has still not provided  a response to the SAR for details of his 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I have come  to the same decision as 
set out in my provisional decision and for the same  reasons.
Mr P has not supplied any additional evidence.  Although NatWest have not dealt with the SAR 
at all well, I have been told that NatWest has provided evidence  about Mr Ps mortgage. I have 
no reason to doubt what NatWest said about the evidence.
If any new evidence is provided,  it is possible that the complaint could be considered  at that 
time.
Based on the available evidence, I think the complaint  was made in time. However, the 
evidence is not sufficient for me to uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that we can investigate this complaint. However, I do not uphold  the complaint  
for the reasons given above and in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29509052Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complained about a pension mortgage with National Westminster  Bank Plc. He is being  
represented by a CMC.  They said the pension  mortgage was very risky for Mr P and that the risks 
werent explained.  They  also said that no alternatives were  discussed  with him.
background
Mr P started an interest only mortgage with NatWest  in 1995.  This was to be repaid using a personal 
pension plan.
NatWest investigated the complaint. They said that as Mr P repaid  the mortgage in 2000 that he should 
have known that he had cause for complaint  at that time. They said that the complaint had been made  
outside the relevant time limits.
The CMC didnt agree  and the complaint  was referred to this Service.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. He asked to speak with Mr P. The CMC explained 
that Mr P had engaged them to deal with his complaint  and any questions  should be via them.  
The CMC told us that Mr P had explained he was given  advice in 1990 to start an interest only mortgage 
for £80,000 to be repaid using  a pension policy. That advice was given by a different firm of financial 
advisers. 
When Mr P reduced his mortgage in 1995 he applied for a re-mortgage with NatWest for a better interest 
rate. The CMC said he met with NatWest at the local branch where  they recommended using the 
pension for the new £40,000  mortgage. Mr P seemed to think  they advised  him to start a new pension  at 
that time, but couldnt  be certain.
The CMC also explained  that Mr P did not cancel  his pension in 2000. He repaid the mortgage because 
he was no longer  receiving MIRAS. He carried on paying into the pension plan.
As NatWest  did not consent to us investigating  the complaint,  the adjudicator had to consider  whether or 
not Mr Ps complaint was one that this service could investigate.  The adjudicator confirmed  that the rules  
under which we operate are set out in the Dispute  Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook. 
The relevant part of DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event  complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent  or to the Ombudsman within that period 
and has a written acknowledgement  or some  other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure  to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 
R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
As the mortgage started in 1995,  there is no doubt  that this was over six years ago. As such the 
adjudicator needed to determine  if Mr P brought his complaint to this service  within three years of when 
he ought to have reasonably become aware that he had cause for complaint.
Ref: DRN29509053The adjudicator thought that as Mr P redeemed  his pension mortgage  in 2000 it was at this point Mr P 
ought to have  reasonably become aware that he had cause for complaint. The adjudicator  therefore  
thought that the complaint  was not one that we could consider.
The CMC did not agree. They believed that as Mr P paid off his mortgage in 2000,  he had no way of 
knowing the mortgage was too high risk. However,  the adjudicators view remained unchanged. He said 
that as Mr P had taken out a mortgage for £40,000 in 1995, then when he paid off his mortgage in 2000 
the mortgage value was the same, he ought to have reasonably been aware that the risk was high on his 
pension mortgage.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether we can consider  the 
complaint. Ive also considered the evidence to indicate what  a fair and reasonable outcome should  be in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
Was the complaint  made in time?
The adjudicator explained  the rules  about the time limits  for making  a complaint.  The event being  
complained about was the re-mortgage in 1995. Thats  clearly more than six years ago. So I have to then 
think about when Mr P knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
Mr Ps complaint is that the risks of using a pension  to repay his mortgage werent explained to him and 
neither were any options  discussed. For the purposes of deciding whether we have jurisdiction to 
investigate this complaint I have thought about when Mr P knew, or ought  to have known, about  the 
risks.
We have  very limited evidence for this complaint. I have only seen a copy of the mortgage offer from July 
1995. I havent  seen any documents from 2000. The CMC has told us that Mr P says he repaid the 
mortgage in 2000 because he wasnt benefitting from MIRAS. That is a plausible explanation. I havent 
seen any evidence to show how much the personal  pension was worth, or whether it would  be sufficient 
to repay £40,000 when the mortgage  was due to be repaid in 2005.
Based on the very limited information I currently have available Im not satisfied that Mr P knew about  the 
risks of using  the pension to repay the mortgage. Further investigation would be required to establish 
whether this is a complaint that we can deal with. But, I presently  think  that we can deal with the 
complaint.
Is the complaint  likely  to succeed?
As Ive explained, I think we can consider  this complaint,  but I would  require more investigation to be 
made before I made my decision on that point.  However, I think its unlikely  that the complaint would  be 
upheld. This is again based on the very limited evidence that I have available.  Further investigation 
would be required on this point, but Ill explain why I think its unlikely that the complaint would be upheld 
even if further investigation is made.
The events being complained about  all took place many  years  ago. The CMC has said that Mr P 
received advice in about 1990 to start a personal pension  to repay  a mortgage of £80,000. That advice 
was given  by a different firm of financial advisers. NatWest was not involved at that point.  I would need to 
see details of that advice to establish what Mr P was told at that time about the risks of using the pension 
to repay the mortgage.
When Mr P re-mortgaged  in 1995 it is not clear to me that he did receive advice from NatWest. Without 
further evidence to show that he was given  advice by NatWest I would  be unable to uphold  the 
complaint.
Even if NatWest  did give Mr P advice I would  have to be satisfied  that the advice was unsuitable.  As I 
understand it, Mr P used the existing pension  that had been sold in 1990 as a means to repay the 
mortgage. I would need to see details  of the pension  policy and the likely  benefits payable to Mr P. 
Ref: DRN29509054Although pension mortgages  generally expose consumers to a number of risks, there are advantages. 
Its possible that the pension mortgage could have been suitable for Mr P depending on his 
circumstances. In particular, Mr P appears to have reduced his mortgage by £40,000  in 1995 when he 
says NatWest gave him advice. And he paid off the mortgage  in full in 2000. This indicates  to me that he 
had other  means  to repay the mortgage.  This is a factor I would take into account  when deciding  whether 
the advice, if any was given, was suitable.
At present I am not satisfied that NatWest gave Mr P advice about  using the pension to repay the 
mortgage. I am also not satisfied that if any advice was given that it was unsuitable for Mr P.
Both NatWest  and Mr Ps CMC may wish to make further submissions following  this provisional decision.  
I will need  to consider  those submissions before deciding to make my final decision,  or whether further 
investigation is required.
my provisional  decision
I presently think this is a complaint that we can consider. However, I also think  that the complaint is 
unlikely to be upheld  based  on the available evidence.
Ref: DRN2950905