K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither BOS nor Miss C still have the paperwork from the time of sale. Thats  not 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But where I have limited information  
about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely. 
BOS says Miss C took out the PPI through a postal application and it has sent me a sample 
document that it says wouldve been used around the time Miss C bought  her PPI.  There is 
a separate section for PPI and customers had to tick a box requesting  PPI cover.  The PPI 
also appeared on her credit card statement so had she not agreed to the cover,  I wouldve 
expected Miss C to have  questioned what the payment was for. Weve also seen a number 
of complaints from around the time Miss C bought her PPI and from what weve seen of 
these cases, I understand BOS made the optional nature of the PPI clear  and asked  for 
customers to agree  to it before adding it to their accounts as part of its usual process. 
So, overall, I think its more likely  BOS  made  it clear  Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out, although given how long ago the policy  was sold,  I can 
understand why she might not remember this now.  
BOS says it recommended  the PPI to Miss C, so it had to check  the PPI was right for her.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Cs circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Miss C was eligible  for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. Miss C seems to also have had a need for the cover. She told us she had 
six months full sick pay followed by six months  half pay provided by her employer. Shes  
also mentioned  redundancy pay offered by her employer and her partner couldve helped  
too. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her employee benefits  for up to 12 months if 
Miss C was unable to work because illness or injury   so potentially  longer than her full sick 
pay wouldve lasted. It also provided cover for unemployment. And while I have no doubt her 
partner wouldve wanted to help her, their ability to help wouldve depended on their own 
circumstances at the time which  couldve  changed.  So I still think  the PPI couldve been 
useful for her. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
Ref: DRN28250562was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss C paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Miss C back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.   I understand BOS has already  paid this to 
Miss C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2825056