K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says The Funding Corporation Limited (FCL)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H bought the policy when she took out a loan to consolidate existing debt in February 
2005. The loan included  an amount to pay for the policy. The policy  protected  her 
repayments on the loan for up to twelve months  if she couldnt work  because of an accident 
or sickness. The policy also provided  her with life cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. The FCL disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 18 December 2019, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 18 January 2020. Mrs H and FCL have acknowledged  that they 
have received the provisional decision. FCL said they had no further submissions they 
wished to make. Mrs H has responded with further submissions. As both parties in this case  
have given us their final submissions, I am proceeding  to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Im minded currently not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint,  Ill explain  why. 
The FCL had to make Mrs H aware  the policy was optional. Mrs H has said she doesnt recall 
agreeing to the loan and remembers feeling  that she had to take the cover  to get the loan. 
The policy was sold over 14 years  ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mrs H nor The FCL 
still have copies of all of the paperwork completed  at the time. I also have to take into 
account that memories  can fade over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory,  I have to make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what  is most  likely to have  happened.
I notice that the agreement  says, You have applied for the following Insurance Products: PPP 
Silver. And the agreement shows that Mrs H would be paying  for Payment Protection 
Insurance. So on balance it seems most  likely that Mrs H knew she was taking PPI with her loan.
Ref: DRN27844112But did Mrs H know that she had a choice about taking the cover?
There is nowhere on the credit agreement  where  Mrs H had to select  the cover to get it. The 
cover was already  on the agreement when Mrs H signed it. The FCL have told us that the 
cover was discussed with Mrs H prior to the completion of the agreement.  So they think  that 
Mrs H would have discussed  the options  and chosen the cover before the credit agreement 
was printed off. But by choosing to present the information in this way there  is a risk that a 
consumer might think the cover had been added automatically. 
The FCL has provided some documentary  evidence in this case. One of which shows  that 
there were four levels of cover that Mrs H could have considered. PPP Silver would have 
provided Mrs H with benefit for up to 12 months in the event she couldnt  work through  
accident or sickness. And it provided life cover  for the remaining  loan amount.  
It is possible that The FCL added cover  to Mrs Hs loan without giving her a choice about  it. 
But it seems  odd that, if they did, they wouldnt have chosen  the most  comprehensive  cover  
with the most expensive  premium; i.e. the cover that would have provided the most revenue 
for itself. But this wasnt the most  cover  that could have been chosen. The PPP Platinum 
cover would have  also provided the monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim  in the event Mrs H lost her job and it would  have repaid the remaining loan 
amount if Mrs H were diagnosed with a critical illness.  And The PPP Gold cover would have 
provided unemployment cover. 
So, Mrs H didnt end up with the most  comprehensive form of cover.  But rather she ended up 
with the Silver cover. Ive also noted the sample  demands and needs form that the FCL has 
provided. It suggests that life cover, critical illness cover, accident and sickness  cover and 
unemployment could  have been explained  and the type of cover  selected following a discussion.  
Having considered all the submissions made to me in this case, whilst things could have 
happened as Mrs H says,  I think the documentary evidence in this case  suggests it most likely  
that there  was a conversation about the different covers that were available  and that Mrs H 
took PPP Silver cover knowing that she didnt have to, even if she doesnt recall that now. 
The FCL recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it needed to check that it was right for her. 
I think it was.  Mrs H was eligible for the policy the main exclusions around  pre existing 
medical conditions  didnt apply to her. 
Whilst Mrs H told us she wouldve got good sick pay from her employer initially. I note that this 
would have dropped significantly after six months.  And Mrs H told us that she had no other  
means she could have relied  on if she was too ill to work. The policy  provided  cover,  in addition, 
to any employer benefits Mrs H wouldve had. And, it wouldve potentially  have paid out for a lot 
longer than Mrs Hs employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. So, I think  the policy 
was suitable for her circumstances even taking into account her existing benefits.  
I think The FCL couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mrs H would still have bought it. Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if 
Mrs H made  a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Ref: DRN27844113There were circumstances in which Mrs H would  not have got back  a proportionate  refund of 
the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy early. I dont know if The FCL thought about this 
when it recommended the policy,  or if it explained  the situation  clearly to Mrs H. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest at the time of the sale she thought shed repay the loan early.  So I 
dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for her  or that better information about  this 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Its possible  that The FCL didnt provide information sufficient to enable Mrs H to make an 
informed choice about the PPI before she took it out. But for the same reason that I think the 
policy was suitable,  I dont think better information  would have led Mrs H to avoid the policy.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered 
the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because  I dont think  I need  to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a 
balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider  what I do have, look at what both sides 
have said, and make a decision based  on what I think most likely happened.  
I understand Mrs H is disappointed as she has had little success with her other  complaints.  
Each case I see is decided on its own particular merits. 
I understand that Mrs H is disappointed  with the provisional decision and does not think  I 
have considered her submissions. I have considered  everything  that Mrs H provided and her 
most recent submissions. But I must have regard for all the submissions  made to me in a 
case, including evidence and testimony provided  by the business. Having done so, I have 
seen insufficient  evidence to depart from my original  findings as set out in my provisional 
decision, and repeated  above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold,  so I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  23 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2784411