K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax)  mis-sold  them  
the PPI. 
The borrowing  was taken  jointly by Mr and Mrs C. But the MPPI just covered Mr C.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Theres very little paperwork available from the sale, and thats  not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. Because of that Ill consider the information I do have. 
Halifax has given me a copy of the Mr and Mrs Cs signed  mortgage application form signed 
and dated in March 1999. Having carefully reviewed  this I can see the mortgage was likely  
sold to them by a mortgage intermediary. But it looks like the PPI wasnt  sold to them at this 
point. 
Halifax has then given  me a copy of the separate PPI application form  headed 
MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS  INSURANCE APPLICATION. Unfortunately  Halifax  only has 
a copy of the first page and not any of the others that likely wouldve needed a signature. 
This form does show an interview took place with an advisor from Halifax. It also shows 
details of a branch where this likely took place, but that, in my experience, could also be 
indicative of where  a Halifax advisor  called them from. So because of this, I think its most  
likely Halifax sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI  and not a third party. 
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt know theyd been sold the PPI. Halifax  had to make  it clear the 
PPI was optional  and that Mr and Mrs C agreed to take it. But I have incomplete information 
from the sale to decide  what I think most likely happened. So because  of this Ive not seen  
enough to say its likely Halifax did do things to make Mr and Mrs C think  the PPI wasnt 
optional. Or that they didnt agree to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, like 
a pre-existing medical condition. And they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN22358162Id like to assure Mr and Mrs C that Ive thought about everything theyve said - including  
what theyve said about their sick pay entitlement. But PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to 
this and potentially  up to 24 months. I also note that they had savings but having PPI meant  
that Mr and Mrs C couldve used their savings for other living  expenses.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2235816