K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the premium increase  applied  to his car insurance policy with 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  (Admiral).
background
Mr M took out a car insurance  policy with Admiral in February 2017 which he renewed  in 
February 2018. 
In April 2018 he had an accident and, while making a claim on the policy, disclosed that in 
the previous year the other named driver  had been involved in two incidents that damaged  
the car. Mr M hadnt mentioned this when he renewed the policy  in 2018. So Admiral 
recalculated what  the premium wouldve  been  at renewal had Mr M told it about the 
incidents. As a result, the total premium  (which included some optional  extras, insurance 
premium tax and a credit charge for paying the premium monthly)  increased  by over £2,500.
Mr M felt the increase was unreasonable. He asked to cancel the policy  and was told this 
was possible and the cancellation fee would be waived. But, Admiral  then said itd made  a 
mistake and cancellation wasnt possible because of the ongoing claim. It offered £75 
compensation in recognition of any inconvenience Mr M was caused by its mistake.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to have recalculated Mr Ms premium  but that it hadnt done  so 
entirely fairly. I said, in summary, that:
Admiral and Mr M had certain  obligations when the policy  renewed, including  those set 
out in the Consumer  Insurance Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA says sets out the insurers and customers roles  and duties  when entering  into an 
insurance contract which includes Mr Ms responsibility to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.  
I thought the paperwork  Admiral  sent Mr M made clear the importance of checking  the 
information it held was correct and what could  happen if it wasnt.  The need to tell 
Admiral, at renewal,  about any accidents, incidents, thefts, losses or claims (Fault  or 
Non Fault) that you or any driver on your policy have made, excluding any claims was 
set out. As well as that If there  is an incident or accident involving your case please call 
us immediatelyYou do not have to make a claim,  but we need  to know the 
circumstances, regardless of who is responsible for the incident. Incidents  were listed  
separately to other issues like claims and accidents. So, despite what  Mr M said, I was 
satisfied Admiral made a clear distinction that incidents  like the two the named driver  
had in the previous year  needed  to be reported.
I thought, if Mr M had told Admiral about the incidents when they happened,  or after 
being reminded to do so by the renewal documents, he likely  wouldve been told that the 
premium was going to increase  in the way it did. And he couldve chosen to search for 
alternative insurers at that stage,  before  he had to make  a claim.
I noted that CIDRA also explains the remedies available to the insurer if thered  been  a 
misrepresentation. It says the insurer can either  cancel the policy or settle a claim 
proportionately. It doesnt give the insurer the right,  as Admiral did in this case, to 
automatically charge  a higher premium.  But Admiral had shown that if it had settled the 
Ref: DRN28151382claim proportionately then Mr M would have  been  left having to pay more to cover the 
rest of the outstanding claim than he was being  asked to pay for the recalculated 
premium. So I didnt  think Admiral acted unreasonably  in allowing him to pay the 
increased premium it offered Mr M the most financially beneficial option.  And I thought 
that would  likely remain the case if Mr Ms premium was recalculated  in a fairer way.
I explained that we dont interfere  with how an insurer  assesses  risk or determines  which  
risks its willing to take, or how it decides  to price  its policies, so long as theres  nothing  
which suggests its treating a particular consumer or group of consumers unfairly  or 
differently to the rest of its customers.  I said Admiral didnt  need to share with Mr M how 
it takes incidents into account. But it had shared  that information with us, which meant  I 
could check if any increases had been applied fairly.
Having reviewed its underwriting criteria  and the information Mr M had supplied about 
the incident, I didnt think Admiral  has applied one of the factors correctly  when  
recalculating his premium.  One of the criteria  that affected the policy price was the time 
of day a reported incident occurred.  But Admiral hadnt asked Mr M specifically when the 
incidents occurred  and, instead,  it has chosen to use the time bracket that carried the 
higher of the two available ratings  and which afforded the greatest price  increase. I didnt 
think that was fair and thought it more  appropriate,  given the overall circumstances, to 
use the lower rating, applicable to when the time of day was unknown.
Admiral had already  admitted a staff member mistakenly told Mr M he could cancel  the 
policy at no charge, because she didnt notice  the ongoing claim. And it offered £75 
compensation to recognise the disappointment  this mistake wouldve caused. I 
recognised this wouldve been  disappointing  to Mr M, but I hadnt seen anything  to 
suggest the misunderstanding  materially altered his position  with regards to the 
increased premium and the open  claim. I felt the same with regards to the fact that Mr M 
hadnt been sent the written summaries  hed requested. So I thought  the £75 offered was 
fair and I noted Mr M had already  been sent a cheque  for this amount.
In response to my provisional decision Admiral explained that the unknown time bracket 
was only used when  there had been  no incidents.  It shared  with us the underwriting  
guidance which showed there  were  actually more than two time brackets to choose  from. 
And it agreed to recalculate Mr Ms premium if he could provide an estimate of when the 
incidents occurred.
Mr M confirmed when,  to his best recollections, the two incidents occurred and made no 
other submissions. He said the first incident  was at around 9am and the second  at 5.30 pm. 
Weve shared this information with Admiral and its in the process of recalculating the 
premium.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Admirals  underwriting  criteria  does allow more than two time brackets.  
And, as Mr M has been able to remember approximately when the two incidents  took place, 
its fair for Admiral to use the information  hes provided when recalculating his premium.
Ref: DRN28151383Both parties  otherwise accepted the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and 
summarised above so I see no reason to make  any other changes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
A.Recalculate Mr Ms 2018 premium using the ratings applicable to the appropriate 
time brackets.
B.If the calculation  in A shows that Mr M paid more than he should have for the policy  
(or any subsequent  policy) then the overpayment should be returned to him.
C.Interest* should  be added to B at a rate of 8% simple  per annum from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of my final decision.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815138