K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about  the actions of Barclays  Bank  UK Plc when they sent money to 
one of their customers as a result  of a scam.
For ease of reading and as hes done  most of the correspondence on the complaint, Ill 
mostly only refer to Mr N.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  In March 2019 Mr N was sadly  the victim of an 
investment scam. Having  been tricked into believing  it was a genuine opportunity, Mr N 
made two payments, each for £25,000, (on 5 and 6 March 2019  respectively)  from his joint 
account with his own bank H to the account details  provided by the scammer. The 
beneficiary account was held with Barclays. 
A few weeks  later Mr N discovered  hed been  the victim of a scam when he visited the 
address of the offices of the firm he believed hed been dealing with and discovered  they 
werent there. He immediately reported this to H and the relevant authorities. H got in touch 
with Barclays who informed them that there  were  no funds remaining in the account to be 
returned. 
Mr N complained to Barclays, he is unhappy  that they allowed a fraudster to open and 
operate an account. He would like them to reimburse him his £50,000 loss. Barclays  
sympathised with Mr Ns circumstances but didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd 
acted in line with their duties and obligations and that they werent liable for the loss. 
The complaint was referred  to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend 
that Barclays needed to do anything further. She was satisfied Barclays  couldnt reasonably  
have done more to prevent or respond  to the fraud. Mr N disagrees and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in Authorised  Push  Payment (APP) scam  cases. 
But Mr Ns right to refer,  to our service,  his complaint about the receiving/beneficiary bank 
comes about following  changes made  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  to our 
jurisdiction rules. These now allow, in limited  circumstances,  eligible complainants  to refer 
complaints about  the bank that received  their funds. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I understand this will be 
deeply disappointing for Mr N, and Im sorry to hear hes been a victim of such  a cruel  scam. 
But it would only be fair for me to direct  Barclays to reimburse his loss if their acts or 
omissions in relation to the prevention or response  to the alleged  fraud itself caused it. I 
dont think they did and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at what Barclays did when opening the account for their customer and Im 
satisfied that they conducted appropriate checks in line with their obligations to do so. I dont 
Ref: DRN21882732think there was anything at that point that reasonably could have given them cause  to 
suspect that the account would later go on to be used  in connection with fraud or scams. So, 
I dont think Barclays could have  prevented  Mr Ns loss in this way. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether there  was anything in the account activity  that ought  to 
have alerted Barclays to the possibility of fraud, prior to Mr Ns report.  Mr Ns payments into 
the scammers account were for significant sums.  And those payments  were promptly paid 
away from the beneficiary account.  
I understand why generally speaking it could be said that this is a significant  amount of 
money to move through  an account  in a short space of time. But it was in line with the 
expected activity for the type of account  that received the funds. As such, I dont  think  
Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns where Id have expected  them to have 
intervened. So, I cant  fairly say that Barclays could have prevented the loss in this way 
either. 
By the time H told Barclays that Mr Ns payments had been  made  as a result of a scam, Mr 
and Mrs Ns funds had already left the beneficiary  account. Im satisfied that Barclays 
responded appropriately to the notification of fraud  received  on the account and I dont think 
there were any failings that prevented  Mr N recovering his money. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr N has lost such a significant amount of money  to a scammer. But 
ultimately this is the fault of the criminal  acts of the scammers.  And I dont think  there  are 
failings by Barclays which resulted in a missed opportunity to prevent  Mr and Mrs Ns loss or 
that would  have resulted in more money being  recovered. As such, Im not going to tell 
Barclays to do anything  further to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2188273