K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs S purchased a PPI policy when  they took out a mortgage.  The PPI 
included cover for unemployment  only  there  was no accident and sickness cover.  And it 
covered both Mr S and Mrs S. The policy cost around £20.00 each month  and wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £419 for up to 12 months following  a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint but Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with this. 
So, the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr and 
Mrs S case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs S complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were  taken out more than 15 years ago  so its unsurprising 
neither party  has been able to provide  much  detailed  information  about the sale.  And in 
these situations,  I have to look at what  I think  is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs S have given their honest recollections of the sale but I have to 
accept that after all this time memories  can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence  
whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have a 
choice in taking  it out. Furthermore,  I note that they only took unemployment cover  they 
made a choice not to take accident and sickness cover and they also chose to split the 
policy benefit evenly   so this indicates to me that they had a discussion with the bank about  
their PPI needs and they made  choices  about  PPI before choosing to buy the policy.
So with the very limited  information I do have and from what  I know  about Santander PPI 
sales around this time, I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs S didnt have a choice  about  taking 
it.
Santander recommended  the PPI. So it had to take adequate steps to make  sure it was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S. I dont know what the adviser said to Mr and Mrs S about  PPI or 
whether Santander  did take adequate  steps. But I dont need  to make a decision about this. 
Because even  if Santander didnt take adequate  steps, I think  the PPI was suitable for them 
for the following reasons. 
Mr and Mrs S met the PPIs requirements  they were both eligible for it. And Ive set 
out the PPIs costs  and main benefits  above.
Mr and Mrs S were  both working  at the time and they say they had some 
occupational benefits from their employer if they had been  made  redundant. But this 
doesnt automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is because were 
Ref: DRN23998902either of them  to lose their job, the PPI was intended  to remove  the additional 
pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments,  at what would likely be a difficult time.
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years  and the PPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs  for up to 12 months  for each successful claim  and on top 
of any other  cover they may have  had. So I dont think  any existing cover or savings 
that Mr and Mrs S may have had wouldve made  the PPI unsuitable.
Nothing Mr and Mrs S told us suggested they needed to keep their costs  down. And 
there wasnt anything  in the PPI that would  make it difficult  for Mr and Mrs S to claim.  
For example, they said they were both in work  when the PPI was sold. So they 
wouldnt have been affected by things  in it about  unusual working  practices.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr and Mrs S 
before they agreed to purchase  it. I dont know they were told it would  cost £18.05  
each month  until after the mortgage  had started. For this reason Ive considered 
whether clearer information about the cost wouldve  affected their decision to 
purchase the policy. But they had chosen to take out the policy,  knowing they would 
have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely they wouldve made a different decision  if better  
information about the cost had been provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S.
Santander needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits,  exclusions and limitations.  It 
hasnt told us anything  that shows what was actually  said to Mr and Mrs S about  this. So I 
cant say its likely Santander did give Mr and Mrs S everything they needed to know  before 
deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr and Mrs S lose out as a result  - would they have taken the PPI if Santander had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained  why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect  the repayments on 
their home. And that its costs and benefits were competitive  and gave peace of mind. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs S lost out. Because I think  they wouldve  taken  the PPI if hed been  
given enough  proper information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, 
if Mr and Mrs S decided  that the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer  wanted the 
policy, they couldve cancelled it without penalty.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399890