K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Financial Administration  Services Limited (Fidelity) failed to provide him 
with the capital gains tax (CGT)  information he required to implement long term changes to 
his investment strategy.  It also didnt respond to repeated requests for the information and 
did not respond to his complaint in a timely manner.
background
He said that because of this failure  there is a potential impact on his future inheritance  tax 
liability for which he should be compensated. He would also like Fidelity  to compensate him 
for the time and cost incurred  in seeking external tax advice about his liabilities, and to pay 
his lost CGT allowance for the 2017-2018 tax year. He also believes it hasnt provided the 
service hes paid for so wants a refund  of the fees hes paid since  2006.
An investigator at this service noted that Fidelitys  online tool provides CGT reports  to 
financial advisors but that this is not available directly to clients.  It also couldnt  calculate 
unrealised CGT gains.
She noted that Mr S and his advisor  had asked  Fidelity  to provide a CGT report  but said it 
was not required  to provide this. Further, she did not agree that a failure to provide this was 
a breach of regulatory requirements,  as Mr S alleged. She felt the facility to produce  CGT  
reports was an extra service which Fidelity  happened to offer but didnt form part of the 
service which  it agreed to provide under Mr Ss terms and conditions.  Also,  she said that the 
evidence made  it clear that Fidelity didnt provide tax advice. As such, the online tool was 
never intended to replace the need to obtain  proper tax advice.
She said that a full transaction history was available to Mr S and his advisors  via Fidelitys 
website, and this could have been used to perform the calculations needed to establish the 
unrealised CGT gains  before the end of the tax year. So the fact that the tool wasnt working 
shouldnt have prevented Mr Ss advisor  from working out his unrealised CGT gains. She 
recognised that using  the raw data to carry out the CGT calculations may have been difficult 
or onerous  but felt it was not something that Fidelity had to do; and she was not persuaded it 
was something Fidelity prevented them from doing.
She said the file note also showed that it was known from November 2017 that Fidelity 
would not be able to produce  a CGT report.  So there was enough time to arrange  for the 
calculation to be done manually before the end of the tax year.  For these reasons, she 
couldnt ask Fidelity to compensate Mr S for the losses which he claimed were attributable to 
its failure to provide a CGT report.
She also did not think it should  refund  his fees as these were not solely  designed to cover  
the online CGT tool. It also paid for various  things including access  to Fidelitys fund 
supermarket platform, online account management, guidance services, statements, and 
access to its UK based call centre; all of which Mr S enjoyed.
However, she did think that Fidelity had failed to respond to Mr Ss letters  of complaint 
promptly; and that there  was a missed opportunity to remind  him and his financial advisor 
that although a CGT report couldnt  be produced they already had access to the transaction 
history needed to establish the unrealised gains figure. 
Given this, she felt Fidelity should  pay Mr S compensation of £250.
Ref: DRN28555302Mr S did not agree,  and said:
Its document Doing  Business with Fidelity  said it aimed  to Help  you realise  your 
long-term financial goals.  ... We believe in making things easy  for you
There can be no dispute  that capital gains tax matters  are of vital importance to 
investment decisions, planning for the future  and the achievement of long term goals
These statements  create the reasonable expectation that necessary support to make  
things easy for you on tax matters will not only be available  but is of the essence of 
the client contract.  Judgements of what is fair and reasonable  must therefore be 
made against this standard  which it has  contracted  to deliver
It is also important to make judgements of what is reasonable in the context of 
expected or normal  good practice  in the relevant industry  sector; and the enclosed  
letter from his solicitor  outlines  expands on this issue of judgement
CGT reports were  not an extra  service outside the accounts terms and conditions or 
something Fidelity was not required to provide. Both Fidelitys own statements and 
applicable industry standards contradict this
While  Fidelity does not provide tax advice, that doesnt mean that it wasnt  required 
to provide tax data.  He was simply asking for the data required to establish  his tax 
position; he could  then if necessary seek tax advice
A full transaction history was not available on Fidelitys website at the time as it 
admitted (citing site migration problems)
So he could not have calculated his CGT  figures via the website
What else could  he have done  to mitigate  his losses? The losses were solely due to 
Fidelitys inability or refusal to provide the figures repeatedly requested
Even when transaction histories became available on its website, these did not allow  
him to make  proper  CGT calculations. Amongst other things,  the data contained no 
realised gains or losses, had no reference to dates of acquisition or original value of 
assets being traded, and provided no audit trail for reinvestments of dividends or 
income
He is also disturbed to discover that Fidelity is regularly carrying  out transactions in 
its capacity as fund manager - for example to fund its management  charges  - which 
are automatically crystallising  capital  gains in the portfolio that are unassessed and 
unreported
Separate reports offered  on its website claiming  to show realised gains or losses  
from transactions on asset  holdings are still either not available  or incomplete, and 
the separate portfolio  valuation reports do not provide the information  necessary for 
CGT purposes i.e. to take proper account  of disposals, reinvestments  or  
reallocations
Extracts from a recent printout from Fidelity's website [not available  at the time of his 
original complaint] purport to be a full record of transactions on one of their accounts
The record is in date order and shows  no transactions between  April 2009 and 
December 2014, a period when in fact the account was active and significant 
reinvestments of dividends and interest  were being made along with regular 
transactions relating to settlement of management fees and other  matters
This report  is therefore materially incomplete  and useless for tax calculation or any 
other purpose. In addition it shows that transactions have  been  made  over the years 
that may have crystallised CGT liabilities without such  liabilities being assessed,  
notified to him or recorded;  in any case it does not include  necessary information  
such as date and value of acquisition of assets  being traded, which  is required to 
calculate CGT liabilities
Ref: DRN28555303Another extract from a CGT report Fidelity recently provided, lists asset  disposals,  
but without any corresponding acquisition dates, values or other data, and simply 
records gains or losses for CGT  purposes  as 'not available'
This document  is useless for all practical  purposes, and it seems logical to conclude  
that the inability to calculate gains and losses can only arise  because the underlying  
records are incomplete or unavailable
It appears that Fidelity  has either lost a substantial  part of the historical data relating 
to their investments  or perhaps more likely have chosen not to go to the trouble and 
cost of entering historic  data when they moved  to new systems,  regardless of the 
consequences for clients
Overall, its systems, records and available reports are not fit for purpose and he is 
very surprised that the Financial Conduct  Authority  allegedly has no problem with this
Its failure to provide  necessary  and industry-standard tax information  goes to the 
heart of its contractual commitment. This is the service for which its management fee 
is paid and which it has failed  to deliver
Its failure to adhere to its undertakings, coupled with a lamentable  disregard of the 
requirements of its own complaints procedures, constitutes something more serious 
than a missed opportunity and unnecessary inconvenience. This was a failure that 
ran to the most  senior levels of the company, had significant adverse consequences  
and casts doubt on its integrity  and competence as a financial service provider
In the context of its multi-billion pound business  the proposed £250 payment is 
completely inadequate  and does  not reflect the seriousness of the issues nor will it 
have any impact  on its future  behaviour
This offer is also completely inadequate  merely  in relation to the time and trouble  this 
issue has caused him
Fidelity responded  to several of these points, saying:
The transaction history as shown on its website is a complete list of all the 
transactions
All the funds in Mr Ss General Investment Account were  accumulation funds which 
meant there were  no dividend reinvestment transactions by the very nature of 
accumulation-class shares
Prior to November 2015  the management fees were paid out of the Annual 
Management Charge of the fund, which was factored into the underlying price of the 
fund
This was known as bundled-class shares  so no deductions were  made  so no 
transactions showed on Mr Ss account
After this date, and the introduction  of clean-class shares, fees were  deducted and 
shown on the transaction  history
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I recognise  that Fidelity, in effect, promises a great customer-focused  service, 
including making  things easy for its customers.  But, in my view,  this is no more  than a typical  
general statement  of its ambitions,  and does not promise  any particular service   such as 
specific help in calculating  potential CGT. So I dont accept Mr Ss view that Fidelity  or this 
complaint can be judged by what he, or other customers, might feel it ought to provide.
Ref: DRN28555304Instead, Fidelity need only,  in my view, provide the services set out in its terms and 
conditions, and any associated documentation.  In this context it did not guarantee to provide 
a CGT  tool either  for customers or their advisors.  The fact that it offered this service  was, as 
the investigator said, an add-on service  and not part of its contractual  commitment.
It also made this clear on the website where it spelt out the various  limitations of its CGT  
tool, and said that customers  or their advisors  should not rely on it. Its Disclaimer was 
detailed and extensive.
I accept that Mr S, in his recent clarification, states  that his complaint is not primarily about 
the CGT tool but about Fidelitys failure to promptly provide a full and reliable transaction  
history, and in a format which allowed his advisor to calculate his CGT position. But he does 
complain at various points  about the tool not working - and the fact that he believes Fidelity 
should provide  CGT  calculations. So I felt it was important to clarify that Fidelity was not 
required to provide any CGT tool, let alone a constantly-working, accurate one, as part of its 
terms and conditions. So any problems with the tool were not grounds to uphold this 
complaint.
Secondly, concerning the online access to his transaction  history, Fidelity said that Mr S had 
never registered on the site so could not, by definition, have had access  to the necessary 
transaction history. From what  Ive read,  he has not disputed  this. Fidelity also said that if 
clients ring and ask for copies of their full transaction history, it will send this. Again, Ive 
seen no persuasive  evidence to indicate  that Mr S did this during the tax year in question. 
So I dont  accept his argument that it was practically impossible to obtain the information 
necessary to assess his CGT position  in time to make appropriate  decisions within the tax 
year in question.  It follows that I dont believe Fidelity should pay the compensation he has 
requested.
I accept that there is a dispute as to whether Mr Ss online transaction  history was always 
available, and I dont  think the evidence either way is conclusive (Fidelitys recent statement 
not being proof that Mr Ss transaction history was available in 2018 on any particular date). 
But I think it is unlikely that Fidelitys entire online  site was unavailable  for an extended 
period such that it was impossible for any clients to access  it within  the necessary tax year. If 
this had been the case I think  Fidelity  and this service would have seen hundreds,  if not 
thousands, of complaints  about this issue, assuming it did not just affect Mr Ss account.
I also dont agree that there is sufficient evidence  to conclude that the transaction history 
documents were  flawed  or insufficient to form the basis of a calculation  of Mr Ss CGT 
position. In this regard I think  Fidelitys  evidence is persuasive, including for the reasons the 
investigator outlined.
I am also satisfied that Fidelitys explanation  of its changed mechanism for deducting fees is 
a reasonable one. Ive not seen  persuasive  evidence that it has taken fees it was not entitled 
to. So for these reasons I dont believe Fidelity should return  any of its management fees.  
These covered  a range of services and Ive seen no evidence that it failed to provide these 
services.
So I dont  share  Mr Ss view about  Fidelitys  failings. Instead, I agree with the investigator 
that it could and should have dealt with his advisors requests more promptly and helpfully. 
But, from what Ive read,  Mr Ss complaint letters primarily  focused on his argument that 
Ref: DRN28555305Fidelity should be providing  CGT  reports to his advisor  something  neither I nor Fidelity 
believe it was required to do  rather than specifically requesting copies of his transaction 
history. In his letter of 16 March 2018  to Fidelitys Chief Financial  Officer,  for example, he 
complains that Fidelity has failed to provide  a full report including a breakdown  of CGT and 
reinvested gains   and wants it to do this. 
In this context, I feel that £250 is a not unreasonable sum in lieu of the specific trouble and 
upset Mr S experienced.  I dont dispute that he experienced far more  trouble and upset  than 
this but I dont believe Fidelity was generally at fault. It was not required to do many of the 
things Mr S felt frustrated about. 
Finally, I have considered  Mr Ss other  points  but I dont believe they affect  the overall merits 
of his complaint.  Ultimately, I dont share his view of Fidelitys responsibilities or of its alleged  
failures. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  to the degree outlined above and instruct Financial Administration 
Services Limited to pay Mr S £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2855530