K820x#14complaint
Mr C says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a Royalties Gold packaged 
account in 2001. 
background
Mr Cs account history  is as follows:
July 1998   account opened as a Royalties  packaged account.
February 2001  upgraded  to a Royalties Gold packaged account.
June 2015   migrated to a Select  Platinum  packaged  account.
May 2017  account closed. 
RBS has refunded all of the Royalties account fees from 1998 to 2001  with 8% simple  
interest, which Mr C has accepted. So I havent considered  the sale of the Royalties 
account. The migration  to the Select Platinum account was due to the Royalties account 
range being  removed by RBS. All customers were put onto the most  comparable packaged 
account available.  As Mr C hasnt complained about this, I also havent considered the 
migration in 2015. 
RBS didnt agree that the Royalties Gold account  was mis-sold. Our adjudicator investigated 
the complaint  and also didnt find that the Royalties Gold  account was mis-sold by RBS. As 
Mr C disagreed with this, the complaint  has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, I dont think RBS mis-sold the Royalties Gold account to Mr C. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr C says he was told the Royalties Gold account would be the best one for him because he 
had an overdraft. Its not possible for me to know exactly what  Mr C was told when he 
upgraded to the Royalties Gold account.  Where theres limited information, I have to 
consider what I think is most  likely to have  happened in the circumstances. 
Looking at Mr Cs account history, I can see he opened  the Royalties account in 1998 and 
took out a £100 overdraft at the same time. He then increased the overdraft to £300 in 
December 1998.   When Mr C took out the Royalties Gold account, he didnt increase the 
overdraft again  for nearly two years. If Mr C had been told the account would be the best 
one for him due to the overdraft, I wouldve expected to see a change in the overdraft  when 
he upgraded to the Royalties Gold account.  But the overdraft didnt then change  for almost 
two years.  So I think he was aware  he didnt have to upgrade to the Royalties Gold  account  
because of his overdraft. 
Mr C has said he had a fee-free account  elsewhere prior to opening a packaged account  
with RBS. So he was aware that fee-free accounts were available  at the time. In addition  to 
this, Mr C opened a joint fee-free account just a few months after upgrading to the Royalties 
Ref: DRN23359312Gold account. And the joint account had an overdraft, so Mr C was aware  he could have a 
fee-free account  with an overdraft on it. Mr C has said he was unaware the joint account  had 
an overdraft and it was only used for mortgage  purposes. I appreciate Mr C may no longer 
remember what overdraft he had on an account  when  it opened over 18 years ago, but at 
the time he wouldve had to apply for the overdraft on the fee-free account. So I think its 
more likely he was aware he could have a fee-free  account with an overdraft. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think its more likely RBS gave Mr C a fair choice  in 
taking out the Royalties  Gold account and that he chose to take out the account knowing he 
didnt have to.  
RBS has let us know  that it didnt give Mr C a personal recommendation for the Royalties 
Gold account based on his individual circumstances at the time.  Mr C says RBS repeatedly  
told him that the Royalties Gold account was the best one for him due to his overdraft.  I 
appreciate Mr Cs comments but I dont think what hes said means RBS gave a 
personalised recommendation during the sale of the account.  RBS has let us know its 
normal process at the time wasnt to provide advice when selling the Royalties Gold  account  
in branch. And based on what Ive seen,  I think its more  likely it followed its normal process. 
Because I dont think a personal recommendation was made,  RBS didnt have to check if the 
account was suitable for Mr C. But it did have  to give him enough information  so he could 
make sure the account was right for him. 
At the time of the sale, the account  cost £9 per month and included  worldwide family travel 
insurance, a fee-free overdraft up to £250  with preferential overdraft rates, purchase and 
card protection as well as other benefits.  As RBS was trying to sell Mr C an account with an 
increased monthly fee, I think its more likely the RBS representative told him about  the 
benefits to make the account more attractive to him. 
As Mr C had a £300 overdraft at the time, its possible  he took out the Royalties Gold 
account for the increased fee-free overdraft  limit. While its possible RBS didnt  tell him  
everything about the account, I cant see that he wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant terms and exclusions. And I dont think better information about  the account  
wouldve made him change him mind about upgrading it. 
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think its more likely Mr C chose to 
take out the Royalties Gold account after having  a reasonable idea of what it entailed. So 
overall, I dont think RBS mis-sold the account  to Mr C. 
Mr C has also said two members of his family  had the same  account as him and both 
received a full refund  of their account fees from RBS. While I can appreciate  Mr Cs point of 
view, I cant comment on what RBS may have done in separate  complaints. There are many 
variables that need to be considered in the sale of a packaged bank account  so we consider 
each complaint on its individual merits. Having done this on Mr Cs complaint, I dont think 
RBS mis-sold him his packaged account. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Ref: DRN23359313Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2335931