K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  continued  their collections process whilst he 
was in a payment plan and defaulted his account.
background
Mr S brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy  with the response hed had from HSBC 
to his concerns.  He wanted them to remove the defaults which  had been  registered on his 
credit file for two loans  on 2 and 8 August 2019  and for his credit card on 3 September  2019. 
HSBC refused to do this. They  said Mr S had been  informed  about the collections process  
and the potential impact  on his credit file. HSBC told Mr S as he didnt  satisfy  their final 
demands the accounts were correctly defaulted  and passed to their repayment services in 
accordance with their procedure. And they told Mr S they were  unable to amend information  
correctly reported  to Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs).
Our investigator thought that HSBC  had applied their own terms and conditions  fairly when 
they decided to default Mr Ss accounts. She thought Mr S had been informed on calls in 
February and March 2018 of the consequences  of not making  contractual  payments and 
also the collections process. So she thought he was informed of what could happen to his 
accounts. She also thought various letters and default  notices sent between  29 November 
2017 and March 2018 told him of what could happen to his account. She noted HSBC hadnt  
taken any action on the accounts whilst Mr S was in the payment plans. And the final 
demand letters sent for all accounts in May 2018 informed him the accounts could be 
reported to credit reference agencies which in turn could have an impact  on his credit file.
She thought  HSBC had explained  to Mr S what would happen with the accounts despite the 
payment plans that hed entered into and she could see the correct notices were  issued to 
Mr S to inform him of the steps HSBC planned  to take. And she wasnt persuaded that 
HSBC had recorded any information  on Mr Ss credit file that was incorrect. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint as she couldnt  see that HSBC had done anything  wrong  here.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to investigate his case. He said the evidence 
hed provided  shows that the way HSBC communicated throughout the period was unclear  
and contradicted their agreements set up in 2017  and 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have sympathy  with the situation  Mr S 
finds himself in. Its to his credit that he was proactive in contacting the bank in November 
2017 and later in February and March 2018 to discuss his situation.  But Im afraid Ive come 
to the view that this isnt a complaint which I can properly uphold  and Ill explain why.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in her letter  
giving her opinion  so I wont repeat that here. Indeed, theres  not a great deal I can add to 
what the investigators already told Mr S. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I 
agree with her analysis.
The information which HSBC have sent me  both documentation and the call recordings 
from 12 February and 17 March 2018  - satisfy me the accounts  were in arrears  and were 
defaulted in line with their terms and conditions  and that the correct procedures  were used. 
Ref: DRN25225252So I cant say theyve  done anything wrong  here.  Nor do I think  HSBC were wrong when 
they reported these defaults or the missed payments  to the credit reference agencies  as its 
a true and accurate reflection of the position  on Mr Ss accounts with them.
I know Mr S feels it wasnt made clear to him that HSBC would continue their collections 
process from November 2017 or the impact  of making reduced payments from February and 
March 2018. And that HSBCs communications by email were  misleading. But I cant agree 
with that for a number of reasons. In her view the investigators highlighted and extracted 
from various letters and demands sent to Mr S the details where hes warned the account 
will still be managed in accordance with HSBCs normal procedures and the explanation of 
what that entails.  
Im also satisfied from listening  to the lengthy  call which  took place on 17 March 2018  that 
Mr S was made  aware  of the long term impact of what he was agreeing  to. The call handler  
explicitly tells him the terms of the lending for both his loans and the credit  card arent 
renegotiated in this payment plan. And what  hes doing in making reduced payments is 
reducing the arrears  that accrue  to the account and just slowing down the process. He was 
also made aware in this call that by that point hed already missed four payments and it was 
HSBCs policy to send a final demand and refer the account to recoveries after seven 
missed payments. I can see nothing in the subsequent correspondence which contradicts 
that.
Given how strongly Mr S feels about  what happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with HSBC informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2522525