K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains about end of contract  charges  when  her agreement with Arval UK Limited 
terminated.
background 
In November 2015 Mrs G was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement  
with Arval.
Following termination  of the agreement,  the car was inspected  on 29 November 2018. Arval 
subsequently asked Mrs G to pay damage charges totalling £270.
Mrs G says the inspector  only made her partner  aware of a chip on the bonnet and an 
unclipped trim. She disputes  the rest of the charges.
Mrs G also says her partner wasnt asked to sign any paperwork following the inspection.  
Mrs G is unhappy that she didnt receive anything in writing regarding  the damage. She says 
that correspondence was sent to her old address even though shed updated this with Arval.
In its final response,  Arval  said that the damage was outside  fair wear and tear and therefore  
chargeable. As a gesture of goodwill it offered to waive £120 of the charges, leaving a 
balance of £150.
Mrs G wasnt  happy with Arvals response so she complained to this service.  She says shes 
only prepared to pay for the damage which was pointed out to her partner at the inspection.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the damage  was outside fair wear and 
tear according to BVLRA  guidance. She said the inspector wasnt  obliged  to discuss  any 
damage or charges with Mrs Gs partner because he wasnt  a party to the agreement.  The 
investigator also said that Arval had emailed  details of the damage charges to Mrs G at her 
registered email address  the day after the inspection.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said that Arval hadnt followed its inspection  procedure, which said 
that any damage should be pointed out on inspection and the hirer given the opportunity  to 
state any reasons  for disagreement  before signing.  Mrs G felt that she had been placed at a 
disadvantage through not being present at the inspection and said that if she had been 
made aware  that the inspector wouldnt discuss damage or charges with her partner she 
would have taken  the day off work to be present at the inspection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs contractual obligation to pay for damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear is set 
out in the terms  and conditions of the hire agreement. This says that Mrs G is responsible for 
the costs of repairing any damage  which  goes  beyond fair wear  and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report together with the images to determine  whether the 
damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. Ive had regard  to the BVLRA  guidelines in doing 
Ref: DRN26716982so. Im satisfied that all of the damage  exceeds  fair wear ad tear in accordance with the 
guidelines so I cant say that Arval  has made  an error in charging  for it.
Mrs G says that the inspector only made  her partner aware of one item of damage. She 
doesnt accept  that the rest of the damage was present at the time of inspection.
It is implicit in what Mrs G says that she thinks the damage happened after the car was 
collected. I can see that details of the damage and charges were  emailed  to Mrs G the day 
after the inspection.  Because of this, I think its more  likely that the damage  was present at 
the time of inspection.
Mrs G feels that she shouldnt  have  to pay for damage which  wasnt  pointed out at the 
inspection. Mrs G wasnt present at the inspection but her partner was. She says her partner 
wasnt shown the report or given the opportunity to challenge any damage.
I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed at the inspection.  I can see that Mrs Gs partner 
hasnt signed  the report. Theres a dispute about whether he wasnt invited to sign or 
whether he refused to sign. Ultimately I dont think this matters, because details of the 
damage and charges  were emailed to Mrs G the following day and therefore Mrs G has had 
a reasonable opportunity to challenge the charges.
I appreciate that it must be frustrating for Mrs G to be asked  to pay for more  damage than 
her partner thought  was present. But because  Mrs G was sent details of the damage and 
charges the day after the inspection, I cant say that shes been misled  about the damage or 
charges.
Ive thought about what Mrs G has said in relation to Arval  not following its procedures.  Ive 
also taken account  of the fact that Mrs G wasnt present at the inspection.  Whilst I agree 
that, had Mrs G been present, the inspector would have discussed any damage with her and 
given her the opportunity to record any disagreement, this doesnt mean that Arval was 
obliged to follow this procedure with Mrs Gs partner because hes not a party to the 
agreement and has no contractual right to dispute  any damage.
Mrs G says that Arval should  have  made  her aware that she might  be at a disadvantage if 
she wasnt present at the inspection. I dont agree that Mrs G has been  disadvantaged.  Arval  
provided Mrs G with information about the collection and inspection  process and I think  this 
was sufficiently clear in detailing what she could expect. Ultimately  it was Mrs Gs decision 
not to be present at the inspection. She could have  re-arranged the inspection for a date 
convenient to her. Im satisfied that an email detailing the damage and the charges was sent 
to Mrs Gs registered email address the day after the inspection.  Mrs G could have 
challenged the charges  at this point if she wished and could have  asked for the car to be 
independently inspected.  Her right to do this is set out in the pre-collection information.
In conclusion, I dont  think the returns process was carried out unfairly.  Im satisfied that the 
damage was present  on inspection and that it goes beyond  fair wear and tear and is 
therefore chargeable. Arval has offered to reduce the charges by £120 which I think  is a 
reasonable offer. I wont be asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN26716983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2671698