K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr W complains that FICL mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Mr W took out in 1996. 
FICL says that PPI premiums totalling £1.46  were paid by Mr W whilst the policy was in 
force.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
FICL has provided a copy of the card application which Mr W signed for his store  card. 
Theres a section on this headed Payment  and Purchase Protection. And I can see that the 
Yes box provided to confirm that PPI was required has been ticked. So from what Ive 
seen, I think its most  likely Mr W knew at the time that the PPI was optional and that he 
actively decided to take it. But I can understand why he might not recall this now, as the sale 
took place a long time ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt need to check  that it was suitable,  given 
his circumstances  at the time. But it did need to ensure that he was given enough 
information to decide whether he wanted to take it. Although  I dont know  what  was said to 
him then,  I think its likely that the information  he received about the PPI could have been 
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  his mind about 
taking the cover. I say this because:
Mr W appears to have  been eligible for the policy.
In a call with our adjudicator, Mr W said that he had been diagnosed  with a medical 
condition in 1997, but he confirmed that this had come  on suddenly and he wasnt  
experiencing any symptoms of the condition at the time of this sale.  Following our 
adjudicators view he now says that he was unwell  when the sale took place.  But I dont 
think Ive seen  enough evidence to satisfy  me that the policy was likely to have been 
unsuitable for Mr W because it excluded pre-existing medical conditions. On balance, I 
still think that he would  have  been able to obtain  sufficient benefits from the policy to 
make it useful to him and was not significantly affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations.
Ref: DRN27852382The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr W wasnt able to work because 
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment.  And it doesnt  look like he had any other 
means of protecting his card repayments  for this period of time if he wasnt  able to work. 
So I think he would have  valued  the extra security which the policy  gave him if things 
went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr W. And as the policys 
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met his needs.
Ive thought carefully about all that Mr W has said in responding to the adjudicators  view.  
But this hasnt changed my mind  about not upholding  his complaint. I still dont think that 
hes lost out by anything that FICL  may have done  wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785238