K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a valuation carried out by Colleys, the now-defunct surveying 
division of Bank of Scotland plc. Mr W believes the valuation  was too low, and caused him to 
sell the property rather than obtain  a mortgage on it. For simplicitys sake,  other than in the 
opening and closing paragraphs  of this decision,  Ill refer to the business throughout as 
Colleys.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  This approach  is 
consistent with what our enabling  legislation  requires  of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr W already  owned the property, a flat which I shall call 36S. He was planning to raise a 
buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage on 36S, rent it out for income and use the BTL mortgage funds 
as a deposit on a new home. The valuation for the BTL mortgage  was carried  out by Colleys, 
and was initially assessed at £140,000. Mr W appealed this, and Colley revised  its figure to 
£155,000.
Unfortunately, this still wasnt high enough to facilitate the mortgage Mr W was applying for, 
so he decided to sell 36S instead and put the sale proceeds into his new home. He sold 36S 
for £165,000  but also complained that Colleys valuation was still too low. He based his 
arguments on his knowledge that another flat in the same block   Ill call it 46S  had 
recently been valued at £180,000  for similar  purposes.
A further  appeal, by the firm that had taken over Colleys  undertakings, put the value of 36S 
at £170,000 but Colleys rejected the underlying complaint about  its valuation. It offered Mr W 
£300 compensation for the time it took to arrange  the appeals,  and then a further £100 for an 
error of information in one of its responses.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr W has asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else. 
Ref: DRN29943782Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  Mr W is seeking 
answers to a number  of detailed questions,  but I dont need  to answer them  in order to 
assess whether Colleys  was negligent  in its valuation of 36S. Ill explain why.
The main  thrust of Mr Ws argument  is founded on the difference  between the valuations of 
36S and 46S. But of course, in taking that approach, Mr W is making  the assumption that the 
valuation of 46S is correct. For me to use 46S as my reference point requires me to make  
the same  assumption, which would be quite inappropriate. That valuation was carried out for 
another party in an unrelated transaction, and Ive no power  to assess whether it was carried  
out with the required skill and care. 
The simple  fact is that none of the information  supplied about 46S can inform  my decision on 
whether Colleys  valuation of 36S was negligent.  My reference point, not least because  
ultimately the most reliable test of a propertys value is how much someone is willing to pay 
for it, must be the price for which Mr W sold 36S. That was £165,000.
Mr W has questioned our investigators rationale  of using a margin  for error of 20%.  Im 
happy to answer  that; it has long been  established  by the civil courts  in negligence cases  
that a variation of between 10% and 20% (in either direction) should be allowed for in when 
deciding if a valuation  is wrong. The case law in that respect goes back  several decades, 
and we take our approach from that. 
Taking the selling  price  of £165,000 as my starting point, Colleys initial valuation of 
£140,000 was lower by slightly more  than 15%. On first glance, it might seem  arguable  that 
Colleys could have  declined  to revisit  that figure on the grounds that the variation was within 
permitted margins. But of course, the reference point of £165,000 wasnt in play at that 
stage; Mr Ws appeal was based on a reference  point of £180,000, which  gives  a 22% 
variation. 
The first appeal resulted  in a revision  to £155,000;  thats still below  the reference point of 
£165,000, but only by a little over 6%, so comfortably within  what is considered  an 
acceptable variation.  Ive explained earlier that the valuation of 46S does  not inform  my 
decision. But I will add, just for completeness, that if I had used £180,000 as the reference  
point, the revised  valuation  of £155,000  still produces  a variation of less than 14%.
Its natural and understandable that Mr W should compare his experience with that of the 
owner of 46S and feel hard done by. Im not unsympathetic  towards  him in that regard. Be 
that as it may, my approach has to be one of impartiality and objectivity. Thats  the approach 
Ive taken and having done  so, I cant find in Mr Ws favour on the underlying  complaint, 
however much hed like me to.
Colleys has offered Mr W reasonable  compensation for the shortcomings  in the service it 
provided to him; if no offer had been made, I would not have awarded more.  
Ref: DRN29943783my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2994378