K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that Falcon Insurance Services Limited tried to mis-sell  him a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr J held a home emergency insurance policy with a particular insurer  (which Ill call H).
He received a telephone call at home from someone  whom  he understood to be a 
representative of H. He says that the caller  told him he needed to give his bank details so 
that his policy could renew. When  Mr J questioned this, saying hed never  needed to do this 
at previous renewals, he said the caller  told him it was new bank regulations.
Mr J gave his bank  details. Following the phone  call, he received policy  documents through 
the post. He realised that the caller was not a representative of H but a representative of 
Falcon and that he had taken out a new policy.  He regretted giving his bank details.  He 
emailed Falcon shortly afterwards and asked that the policy be cancelled. Falcon said that 
he would  need  to make  this request  by post and return the policy documents which had 
been sent to him. 
Mr J did this. He also complained that Falcon  had sought to take advantage of him by 
misleading him into believing that he was renewing his policy  with H. He explained that his 
wife suffered from dementia  and that they were both elderly. He explained how the worry 
they had been tricked  into paying for something  they did not want  had caused them a great 
deal of distress.
Falcon confirmed seven days after the sale had taken  place  that the policy  had been  
cancelled within the fourteen-day cooling-off  period.  It didnt uphold Mr Js complaint that the 
policy had been  mis-sold.
Mr J was unhappy at Falcons response. He referred  his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
 
Im satisfied that the policy document which was sent to Mr J following the sale adequately 
explains that the policy may be cancelled without charge in the first fourteen  days by 
returning the document to a particular postal address. Mr J did this and Falcon correctly  
cancelled the policy.
However, this still leaves the question of whether the attempted sale was made  properly.
Mr J says the representative mentioned H and led him to believe the call was in relation to 
the renewal of that policy. He says that when he questioned why there  was a need to give 
bank details, the representative  told him it was because of a change in bank regulations. 
Mr Js son has said that his father keeps meticulous notes in his diary and that the notes 
from this day support his fathers version  of events.
Falcon has provided no evidence relating to the telephone call. It deleted the recording after 
three months. 
Ref: DRN21573712In the absence of the recording, I have to go on what I think most likely occurred. Mr J 
apparently recorded details  of the call in his diary  and put his version of events in writing  to 
Falcon within three days of the telephone call having taken place. In the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, I am inclined to believe Mr J when he says that Falcons 
representative misled  him into taking  out the insurance policy. Falcon has only itself to blame 
for not having  counter-evidence. I am surprised that it decided  to delete the recording of the 
telephone call, knowing as it did that Mr J had made  a complaint and had indicated his 
intention to refer the matter to us.
We are not a regulator of the financial industry  and so my role is not to punish Falcon for 
breaking regulations.  Instead, my role is to determine on the appropriate outcome in this 
particular complaint. In this case,  Mr J has explained  how the telephone call caused him and 
his wife a great deal of anxiety. He had to visit his bank to ensure the direct debit mandate  
was cancelled. He had to involve his son acting on his behalf to ensure the policy was 
cancelled within the fourteen-day cooling off period. He underwent worry for a period  of 
seven days until he received confirmation that the policy had been cancelled without charge. 
This would all have  been avoided if he hadnt  been mis-sold the policy  in the first place.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Falcon should pay Mr J £150 compensation.
Mr J accepted my provisional  decision while Falcon  didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr J accepted my provisional  decision and Falcon didnt respond, Im satisfied 
that my provisional decision should stand and this now becomes my final decision. I consider  
that Falcon should  pay Mr J £150 compensation for the reasons I have given.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Falcon Insurance Services  Limited  to pay Mr J £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157371