K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage taken out with Bank of Scotland plc by 
Mrs E, jointly  with her husband, a former  solicitor  in private practice.  Mrs E is unhappy that 
Halifax has debited unusually high legal  fees to the mortgage account, and that payments 
she understood to have  been made to the mortgage havent been  credited to the account. 
For reasons that will set out below, only Mrs E has brought the complaint.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs E when my decision is 
published.
The mortgage was taken out in 2014,  purportedly to repay an existing joint mortgage 
Mrs and Mr E held with another lender, which Ill call B. Halifax charge  on the property was 
registered in the usual  way, but the existing mortgage with B wasnt  repaid. Then, during 
2015, the direct debit  mandate  to the mortgage account from Mrs Es current  account 
stopped. A succession of faster payments was made in subsequent months,  all of which  had 
the look of payments to the mortgage account.  In fact, the money  was going elsewhere, and 
the mortgage was falling  into substantial  arrears.
Meanwhile, B had begun action to try and recover its debt, meaning Halifax  had to defend its 
first legal charge.  The problem was seemingly due to alleged fraudulent activity by Mr E in 
his professional role, and the dispute went before  the Solicitors  Regulation Authority (SRA). 
Eventually, an award from the SRA provided B the money it was owed. Meanwhile, Halifax 
debited its legal costs  to the mortgage account.  
Mrs E brought the complaint to us at the beginning of 2019. She did this on her own because  
in 2018, Mr E had been jailed for fraud.  One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint, but 
wasnt persuaded it should be upheld.  
He explained  to Mrs E that the payments she thought had gone to the mortgage  had, in fact, 
been paid elsewhere; albeit he couldnt tell her where  the money had gone. Whilst 
recognising that the legal bills were unusually high, he made the point that this was an 
unusual situation  for Halifax  to deal with. Although he acknowledged Mrs E was blameless, 
he didnt think it was unfair of the bank to debit  the mortgage account in the circumstances.  
Mrs E has asked  for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Ref: DRN27597082Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Where theres a dispute 
about the evidence, including whether all of the relevant evidence  has been provided,  its for 
me to decide  if I have  everything I need to determine the case  fairly. Here,  Im satisfied I can 
do so on the basis  of what I have in front of me.
Ill make  one other observation. Our rules permit either party to a complaint to submit 
evidence in confidence. Its then for us to decide  if its appropriate  for us to rely on that 
evidence, and if we do, how much weight we should attach to it. Here, the majority of the 
evidence Halifax has sent us legally-privileged, which means it cant  be disclosed to Mrs E. 
However, it is, in my judgement, central to the case and for that reason, Ive decided it can 
be relied on whether  reaching my conclusions on the case.
Theres no doubt in my mind that Mrs E has been placed in a dreadful position;  she is jointly 
responsible for a mortgage debt that has grown  considerably due to missed payments  and 
substantial legal fees, and has, in effect, been left to face the music on her own. No could fail 
to feel sympathy for Mrs E in such circumstances. The difficulty  however, is that whilst none  
of this is her fault, none of it Halifaxs fault either.  
It has been forced, in highly exceptional  circumstances,  to defend  its security  for a loan that 
it gave in good faith. Whilst  debiting the cost of that defence  to the mortgage account is 
unquestionably unwelcome for Mrs E, I cant say it is unfair , and thats the test I have to 
apply when deciding  if the complaint should  be upheld. 
Taking a step back and looking  at this situation  impartially, as I must, I cant say Mrs E is in 
the position shes in because of what Halifax has done (or not done) and thats all I can 
make a finding on under our rules.  I cant advise on what  other  potential  recourse Mrs E may 
have against other  parties, as its simply not in my power to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27597083
Ref: DRN2759708