K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1994. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Ms F says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Ms F and FICL a provisional decision explaining I planned to uphold the complaint. 
I said Id consider anything else Ms F or FICL  wanted to give me by 8 May 2019. Ive 
received nothing new from FICL or Ms F.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Fs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave her clear  enough 
information about the policy. I say this because I dont think FICL gave Ms F clear enough 
information about the policy costs.  For example Ive nothing to make  me think  FICL  told her 
the PPI premium would  be added to her card balance and could  attract interest. And Ive 
nothing to make me think FICL told Ms F shed have to pay the PPI premium during a claim.
I think this would have  mattered to Ms F because at the time of the sale I think  its likely she 
had significant  savings and so couldve met the card payments for a while without the PPI. I 
say this taking  into account that Ms F has told us she had savings  behind  her at the time of 
this sale and shes previously given us plausible and persuasive testimony about this.
For example Ms F has told us she saved a lot while  working  in a job that had significant  staff 
perks. Being  able later to afford to retrain was, from what Ms F has told us, an indication  of 
the degree of financial  security shed achieved three years or so before the sale.  Also Ms F 
told us she could afford in the year of the sale itself to give significant  financial help to a 
family member without this affecting her savings significantly.
Ive no reason to think the readily  accessible personal savings  and share of joint savings 
figures Ms F has told us about arent broadly  reflective  of her position at the time of the sale 
itself. So, in the light of what Ive already said about  those  savings   and taking into account 
her salary,  I dont think Ms F would have wanted  the PPI if FICL had told her enough  about  
its cost. Taking everything into account, I dont think Ms F wouldve bought the PPI if FICL 
had given her enough clear  information  about it. So I think  Ms F has lost out because of 
what FICL did wrong.
Ref: DRN27973692putting things right
I understand Ms Fs card account is closed. FICL should put Ms F in the financial position 
shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms F would  have  owed  when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms F would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until the refund  is paid.  The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms F would have owed each month  without PPI  Ms F 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms F paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Ms F 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms F what its done to work  out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Ms F by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms F can reclaim the tax if she doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Fs complaint. Financial Insurance Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2797369