K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them 
Additions and Premier  Life packaged  bank accounts  sometime  before 1997  and in 2010. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and didnt think  that Barclays mis-sold 
the packaged accounts. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
their complaint and make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. But having done so, Im 
not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Id like to explain  the reasons for my decision.
why I think Mr and Mrs F were given a clear choice in taking the accounts
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs F were given a clear choice in taking 
these accounts.  At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision  
based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened, I have to think about everything Ive been told together  with 
everything else Ive been  provided  with and see how this fits with what  I do know. In other  
words, what l have  to do, in this case,  is decide  what I think  is most likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what Mr and Mrs F and Barclays have been able to provide  me with.  
The information Ive seen suggests  Mr and Mrs F initially upgraded to the Additions account 
from a free one. I say this because although  Barclays cant confirm when Mr and Mrs F were 
sold their Additions account  they already had an account with Barclays before the Additions 
account was introduced  in 1996. So I think that Mr and Mrs F wouldve known that Barclays  
did fee free accounts and that they couldve had one of those  if thats what they really  
wanted. 
Overall and having carefully thought  about everything Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs F were 
most likely given a clear choice on upgrading on both occasions. And I think  its most likely  
that they chose  to upgrade to the packaged accounts as they, at the time at least, thought 
that the benefits included  might prove useful.  
  
why I dont think that the Additions and Premier Life accounts were  mis-sold
Barclays says as the accounts  were sold in branch a recommendation wouldnt have taken 
place. And I havent  seen  anything to suggest that a detailed assessment of Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances was carried out at the time of either  sale, which is what  shouldve  happened 
had the accounts been recommended. So I dont  think  that Barclays recommended  the 
accounts to Mr and Mrs F. This means  that Barclays didnt have  to check  if they were right 
for them and it was up to Mr and Mrs F to do this by thinking about what the account came  
with and their circumstances at the time.  
Ref: DRN20063692At the time Mr and Mrs F upgraded to the Additions  account the main  benefit included was 
preferential overdraft terms.  Additions  accountholders didnt have  to pay the £5 a month 
overdraft usage  fee that free accountholders  had to pay. The Additions account also cost £5 
a month  cost and it also included  an interest  and fee free portion of £100. Having looked  at 
Mr and Mrs Fs account ledgers, I can see that they were using their overdraft regularly and 
so benefitted from the preferential  overdraft  terms. So it looks  like they were able to use the 
main benefit  included on the Additions  account at the time. 
The Premier Life account included even better overdraft terms. It provided  a £1000 interest 
free overdraft portion and a substantially  discounted interest rate on amounts over this as 
long as the accountholder kept within their overall  agreed limit. Mr and Mrs F were  using 
their overdraft a significant amount. So the preferential  overdraft terms are likely to have 
been useful to them.
Given Mr and Mrs Fs use of their overdraft, I accept that the discussion at the time when the 
Premier Life account was sold is likely to have  focused on the preferential overdraft terms. 
But I do think that its likely Barclays representative did talk about all of the benefits and at 
least provided an overview of what the account included. After  all they were  looking to make  
the account appear as attractive  as possible so Mr and Mrs F would agree to pay the 
monthly fee when  they most  likely  knew he didnt have to. And telling them about everything 
theyd get is more likely to have done  this rather than less likely.
As far as I can see, Mr and Mrs F couldve used the other benefits  on the Premier Life 
account too. It looks like they drove and had access to a car, had a mobile  phone  and he 
travelled too. So Ive seen  no obvious  reason why they couldnt have used the mobile phone  
insurance, breakdown  cover, travel  insurance and airport  lounge  access. 
Ive seen what Mr and Mrs F have said about  continuing to buy this cover  elsewhere. But as 
I think that Mr and Mrs F wouldve  been  told about  what  the account  included and they 
wouldve received  quite a bit of documentation  explaining what  they had over the years  they 
had the account, I cant  hold Barclays responsible if Mr and Mrs F chose to continue paying 
for cover elsewhere instead of relying on what was included on the account.
Mr and Mrs F may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, believe they havent benefitted from the 
accounts as much theyd  hoped  and expected  to. And given what  they mightve read and 
heard about  packaged  accounts  in general, I can understand why Mr and Mrs F might 
believe their accounts  were mis-sold. But as explained earlier, I have to base  my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened at the time and I cant use hindsight when 
reaching my conclusion. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs F chose to upgrade having been 
told what the accounts came with. So I want  to reassure Mr and Mrs F that having looked at 
all the information  provided and thought about everything theyve said, I dont think that 
Barclays mis-sold  the packaged accounts  to them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN20063693ombudsman
Ref: DRN2006369