K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about Creation Financial  Services Limited (Creation) for applying  a late 
payment charge to his credit  card and cancelling his interest free offer on his balance 
transfer. He wants Creation to refund the interest  and late payment fee, to reinstate his 
interest free offer, and to pay him compensation for his inconvenience.  
background
Mr R held a credit card with Creation. This card applied a promotional  offer of 0% interest on 
balance transfers.  
In December 2017, Mr R made his monthly repayment on the due date. This payment did 
not clear immediately and Mr R incurred a late payment  charge on his card. Creation also 
ended his 0% interest on balance transfers.  
Mr R contacted Creation  and appealed  this outcome. As a goodwill gesture  Creation 
refunded the late payment fee and reinstated his balance transfer offer.  At that time, 
Creation explained that customers needed to allow for clearing times of up to 5 working  
days, depending on payment method, in order to avoid late payments. 
Mr R made  his next few payments on time. 
Mr R received his March 2018  credit card statement which set out that his minimum payment 
deadline was 10 April 2018. 
On 10 April 2018 Mr R made his payment by BACS. 
That payment  did not clear with Creation until 12 April 2018. Creation applied  a late payment 
fee to Mr Rs account and cancelled his interest  free offer.  
Mr R complained to Creation in June 2018. Creation  sent him its final response in August 
2018. It rejected  his complaint on the basis that the clearing times were set out on his 
statements, and the terms and conditions of his card allowed Creation to revert to standard  
rates of interest if customers broke  the agreement. 
Mr R was not happy with this view and contacted us.
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that Creation was entitled to rely on the clearing times  it had advised Mr R about,  and 
that the terms allowed Creation to cancel his promotional  rate in the case of late payment. 
He therefore did not recommend that Creation  do anything further.  
Mr R was not happy with this and asked for an ombudsman  decision. He has pointed out 
that Creation detailed  his payment on his April statement as having been  made  on 10 April 
and so he feels it is inconsistent for Creation to treat the payment as late. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29821042I understand Mr Rs disappointment  that when he made his payment on the due date he has 
still been treated  as having paid late, especially when  many of his payments made  by BACS  
are received  instantly, however I agree with the adjudicators view.  
Creation provided  information on the monthly  statements about how payment could be 
made. This set out that if paying online by debit card customers  should allow up to 3 working 
days for payment  to reach the business, and if paying by internet or telephone banking then 
5 days should  be allowed. 
I appreciate that many  transactions will credit  immediately, or soon after payment, but 
Creation had specified that payment needed to reach them  by the deadline,  and that 
payment methods differ in their clearing times. In addition, Creation had personally advised  
Mr R of the clearing times,  and that payment needed to be made allowing time for payments 
to clear, when he had encountered the same situation a few months earlier.  
As a result, I think that Mr R was on notice  that Creation required payment to clear by the 
deadline, that BACS was not immediate, and that if payment was made late then Creation 
would, in line with its terms and conditions, revert to the standard  rate of interest rather than 
any promotional rates. It was therefore Mr Rs responsibility to ensure that he made  his 
payment in good time, or risk that it would not clear in time. 
I think it was appropriate  of Creation to reverse its decision as a goodwill gesture in 
December 2017,  but I do not think it was then obliged to give further goodwill gestures when 
the late payment  was repeated. 
As a result, I do not think that Creation has acted unreasonably and I do not uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint. 
Mr R feels that it was inconsistent of Creation to detail the payment date as 10 April on his 
statement, but Creation has explained that it uses the payment made date for the purposes 
of calculating interest. I think the other  information  on the statement is sufficiently clear about 
clearing times that this is not inconsistent. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint  and do not ask Creation 
Financial Services Limited  to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2982104