K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about his home  insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) as 
he feels it failed to highlight key options  to him at renewal, and if it had, hed have had 
additional cover  when he faced losses as result  of having to trace  and access a leaking pipe.
 
background
Mr M arranged cover  with RSA in 2010.  It renewed each year since. The policy offered cover 
for damage  caused  by many things.  There  was no option for the policy  to include cover for 
tracing and accessing  leaks.
In 2015 RSA began offering a policy to new and existing customers which  could, as an 
optional extra, include cover for trace and access.  Mr Ms policy renewed as normal that 
year, he was not aware, nor made  aware,  of the other cover  which  had been made available.
Following the policy  renewing again  in 2018,  Mr M suffered a leak at his home. RSA said the 
water damage was minimal, but there was a lot of repair to be done  as result of the leaking  
pipe having been found and accessed. RSA said Mr M wasnt covered for trace  and access 
work. Mr M was unhappy with this. He complained. And was told about the change which 
had occurred in 2015, but that as he had continued  to renew his old policy there was no 
option for RSA to cover the trace  and access damage which had occurred. Mr M complained 
to us. 
Our investigator noted that RSA doesnt offer advice on policies and, having asked RSA to 
provide call recordings, said Mr M hadnt  asked it about trace  and access cover before the 
loss. He felt RSA hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr M said this missed  his point  that he couldnt have asked about trace  and access 
because he didnt know about it because RSA had failed to reasonably  update him in 2015  
about the cover he could  have benefitted  from. He said he wasnt an expert in insurance 
such as to know what his policy  did and didnt cover and it should have told him when  the 
new cover  became available. He said taking trace and access cover wouldnt have cost him 
any more so there is no reason why he wouldnt have had it, and he would have  been  
covered for the damage caused when finding  and fixing the recent  leak.  
Mr Ms complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment this 
causes Mr M, Im not going to uphold his complaint. 
Ive seen Mr Ms renewal documents from 2015.  I do think there should have been some  
reference in them to the fact that RSA now had alternative cover  available  that might have 
better suited  Mr Ms needs.  But RSA didnt need  to say more than that. It didnt need to say 
or advertise what that other cover might be  and it certainly couldnt  offer any advice to its 
policyholders to change their existing cover. 
The 2015  documents  dont contain  any reference like that. But Im not persuaded that, if they 
did, Mr M would  have  either seen it or chosen to act on it. He had continued to renew with 
Ref: DRN24771822RSA for many  years,  despite  knowing there  was other cover available in the market,  even if 
not via RSA. He received copies of his policy documents every year and spoke to RSA on 
occasion too. He seems  to have been happy  with the cover he had, until that is the leak 
occurred and he came  to understand the area in which  his policy  was lacking.  And 
unfortunately for Mr M, RSA is correct in saying it was up to him to make  sure the policy  he 
had suited his needs.
I appreciate that Mr M isnt an expert  in insurance cover but he had the chance to read his 
documents and to ask RSA if there was anything he was unsure about. He also had the 
chance to seek  advice from others,  such as brokers who are experts in the insurance 
industry, if hed wanted to arrange a policy after receiving the benefit of advice about what 
policies were available that suited his needs. RSA was not in a position to offer such  advice. 
I havent seen  or heard  anything that makes me think RSA misled Mr M in anyway, or that it 
failed to answer a clear  question asked of it about  the extent of cover available. As I said at 
the start,  whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think RSA failed him in anyway which  
caused the uninsured loss he suffered. Therefore, I cant reasonably find against  RSA or 
make it recompense Mr M for his loss.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2477182