K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple.
Mr P says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr P opened  a store card account in a shop  in 2004.  At the same  time, he took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mr Ps store card 
each month  if hed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if he lost his job. It 
also included some purchase and price  protection cover  and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  initially uphold the complaint. But after Mr P told us that hed have 
been entitled to six moths  full pay, followed by six months half pay from his employer if hed 
been off sick, she recommended that the complaint  should be upheld. This was because she 
didnt think FICL had made the policys cost and benefits clear enough to Mr P. And she 
didnt think he needed the policy enough to make its benefits  worth what it cost him.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy cost £1.50 for every £100  of the monthly  balance on the store  card account. If 
Mr P had made a successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment, the policy would 
have paid a monthly  benefit of 15% of what he owed on his store card.  And it would have 
done this each month until his credit agreement ended,  or he returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance had been  repaid- whichever was the earliest.
I acknowledge that the benefit  of the policy  was relatively high. But so was the cost.  And Im 
not satisfied that FICL made it clear to Mr P that the premiums  would  be added to the 
account, and would  attract interest.  Nor am I satisfied  that it was made  clear  to Mr P that 
premiums would continue  to be charged during the period of a successful claim, so reducing 
the benefit.
Mr P was employed in the public sector when he opened the store  card account. FICL 
believes that given  Mr Ps length of service at the time, his sick pay entitlement  would have 
been lower than hes told us it was. It believes  that Mr P would have been entitled to four 
months full sick pay, followed by four months  half pay. 
Ref: DRN21683522But even if Mr Ps sick pay entitlement was as FICL has suggested,  Im not convinced that 
Mr P would have thought  the PPI was good value if hed fully understood the cost and 
benefits. So I think its unlikely hed have taken the PPI out. This means I think he lost out 
because of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr P in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr P would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr P owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mr P 
would have owed when  he closed his account from when  he closed it until he gets the 
refund.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr P would  have owed each month without  PPI  
Mr P paid more than enough  to clear his balance,  FICL should  also pay simple interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Mr P paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the 
point when Mr P would have owed FICL something  on his store  card.
D.FICL should tell Mr P what  its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr P that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr P a certificate  
showing how much tax FICL have taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN21683523my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2168352