K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about Santander  UK Plc (Santander) for withdrawing his overdraft and 
registering a default  against him. He wants Santander to remove  the default  from his credit 
file and to agree a repayment  plan.  
background
Mr K began his university studies in 2012. He held a student  bank account at another bank 
and a 16-18  account at Santander.  
When Mr K went to close his 16-18 account  he spoke with bank staff and he says was 
encouraged to open a student  account  with Santander. 
Mr K says that he told Santander  staff that he had another  student account elsewhere and 
that his student  funding  was paid into that account.  He says he was told that that was fine 
and that he would be able to have  an interest free overdraft with Santander  until a year after 
he graduated. 
On this basis Mr K opened the account in November 2012 and was issued with a £250  
overdraft limit. 
Mr K received a £50 credit for opening  the account  and used the account to make payments 
using his overdraft  facility. In December 2012 and January 2013 he made deposits,  totalling 
£1250 into his account. This caused Santander to increase his overdraft  limit to £1500,  
which it did in January 2013. 
Mr K used his account over the next couple  of months,  gradually  reducing his credit  balance.
In March 2013, Mr K withdrew £1500, sending the account overdrawn by more than £1000. 
Mr K used the account for some  further transactions over March and then made a significant 
deposit in April, bringing the account  back  into credit.  
Over the spring  and summer  of 2013,  Mr K made  withdrawals from the account,  using up the 
majority of the overdraft,  and then made a deposit into the account  in July, leaving  a small 
credit balance. 
After this Mr K used the account for payments and withdrawals, making only small deposits, 
so that by August 2013 his balance was close to his overdraft limit. 
Santander contacted Mr K indicating that it would withdraw his overdraft facility.  Mr Ks 
overdraft was cancelled  in August 2013,  but following contact from Mr K the overdraft  was 
reinstated in September  2013. 
Mr K continued using his account, with the balance remaining near to his overdraft limit, with 
few deposits into the account, until August 2014, when Santander again cancelled his 
overdraft. After contact from Mr K the overdraft was reinstated.  
Mr K then continued to use his account in a similar way, with withdrawals or payments taking 
him close to, and sometimes exceeding,  his overdraft  limit, and with few deposits into the 
account. 
Ref: DRN28187672In September  2015, Santander cancelled Mr Ks overdraft again and began  applying 
charges and fees for unauthorised overdraft use. 
After contact from Mr K these charges were refunded in September  2015, but further  
charges were then applied in November and December 2015. No deposits  were made into 
the account (other than refunded charges) after September 2015. 
Santander sent a final demand  and default notice  to Mr K in early  2016. As the account 
remained overdrawn the account was defaulted in March 2016 and the account was passed 
to recoveries. 
Mr Ks debt was subsequently sold to a third party. 
Mr K complained to the business in April 2018.  He said he believed he had been mis-sold 
the account. He said he was not made aware of the debt recovery  action and default and he 
wanted the default removed from his credit file. 
Santander sent Mr K its final response letter in April 2018. This rejected his complaint and 
directed him to the terms and conditions which he would  have agreed  to when opening the 
account. 
Mr K was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that she did not think  that the account had been  mis-sold and that Santander had not 
done anything  significantly  wrong.  She therefore  did not recommend Santander do anything 
further. 
Mr K was not happy with that view and asked  for an ombudsman decision.  He feels it is 
unfair that Santander  did not permit him to keep his interest free overdraft until after he 
graduated even  without  the required income, because  he had told Santander  he had another  
account which received his student  funding. Mr K has now cleared his balance  but wants the 
default to be removed from his credit  file. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I sympathise with the position  Mr K has found himself in, I have to look at what 
Santander did and whether this was reasonable, before looking at the impact  that any action 
(such as defaults)  has had on Mr K. 
I understand that Mr K discussed, during  the account opening process,  that he received his 
main income into another account.  He feels that because he was allowed to open the 
account on this basis that Santander should  have kept the overdraft and account in place 
until Mr K had had a year after graduating to pay off his overdraft. 
I do not agree. Opening  a bank account is always  subject to terms and conditions and 
features, such as an interest free overdraft, are something that businesses can offer to 
customers on the proviso that the customer complies with the corresponding terms. 
Ref: DRN28187673Santanders terms and conditions set out that if customers do not maintain regular payments 
into their accounts then Santander may close the account. The terms also say that for some 
account features  there may be a minimum income level needed (for students this was £500 
per academic term).
Santander was entitled to close  the account  on notice at any time, or to vary the terms that 
applied to the account, in the same  way that Mr K was entitled  to leave Santander if he 
chose to, or if the account did not meet his expectations. 
Santander required a regular income into student  accounts of £500 per term in order  to 
maintain preferential features, such as an interest  free overdraft, or a particular interest  rate. 
It was entitled to enforce that requirement so long as it gave Mr K reasonable notice. 
Santander has provided evidence of letters that were sent to Mr K at his correct address. 
These amount  to more than 20 letters, sent between November  2013  and January 2016, 
advising that the account needed to receive  a regular income in order  to remain fully open, 
or that action was being taken to restrict the account. 
Santander had previously withdrawn the overdraft facility on two occasions  before it was 
finally removed in September  2015.  Mr K had on these  occasions contacted  Santander and 
discussed keeping  the overdraft in place.
Santander had reinstated  the overdraft  on those occasions, but this does not mean they 
were obliged to do so again.  
The correspondence sent to Mr K is very clear that he needed  to pay more  into his account  
to keep it open. Mr K did not do so, and so Santander withdrew the overdraft facility, leaving 
Mr K having  to repay the balance.  Santander then wrote to Mr K about  this balance, and 
warning that a final demand  and default would follow if he did not reduce his balance.  
Mr K did not reduce  his balance and so the default was registered. I do not think this was 
unreasonable
Mr K has said that he was not aware of the intention to register a default, but the evidence  
shows that proper  notice was sent, to the correct address. I do not think  it likely  that all of the 
letters sent to Mr K were  mislaid and so I think it likely that Mr K received some notice that 
he needed to take action  to bring  his account into line. 
In any event, he knew that Santander  may withdraw services  (as it had done so in 2013 and 
2014 and Mr K had acted  then to have them reinstated) yet he did not address his account  
between March 2016 and his complaint in 2018. 
I think that Mr K was aware that he needed to make payment into his account to keep the 
account features,  and that he was informed  of Santanders intention to default the account 
after it had been  inactive for a period. 
I therefore agree with the adjudicators view that Santander has not done anything  
significantly wrong and I do not uphold this complaint. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr K but I hope the above makes  clear 
why I have reached this view. 
Ref: DRN28187674my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and do not ask Santander 
UK Plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2818767