K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (the bank)  mis-sold her a fixed  rate commercial loan. 
She says the bank  advised her to take out the loan which  was inappropriate for her 
business, in particular because of the break costs  payable  if she repaid the loan early. 
background 
Ms L ran a property business which included buying  properties, renovating  them and then 
selling them at a profit. In April/May 2013  she renewed and increased  her borrowing from the 
bank for her business.  She entered into a variable rate loan for around £360,000  and also 
the relevant fixed  rate loan for around £450,000.  Under the latter,  the interest rate was fixed 
for 25 years. 
Not long after entering into the fixed rate loan,  Ms L repaid part of it and incurred break costs 
of around £2,000.
After more time had passed, Ms L complained  via representatives about the fixed rate loan. 
The bank denied  having  given Ms L any advice to take out the loan. But it accepted  it could 
have done more, before Ms L entered  into the loan, to explain the break costs  that might  be 
payable if she repaid it early.
The bank offered to cancel  the fixed rate from the date of Ms Ls complaint and make the 
appropriate financial adjustments,  on condition  she paid break  costs  of around 6% of the 
loan capital. The bank  said Ms L could reckon  on paying break costs of that amount  based 
on the information with which the bank supplied her at the start. Ms L didnt accept the 
banks offer.
Like the bank,  our adjudicator concluded the bank hadnt informed Ms L adequately about 
the potential size of break  costs. She thought  the evidence indicated  that a fixed  rate 
appealed to Ms L and that she had had no intention,  when taking out the loan, of repaying it 
in the short  term.  The adjudicator recommended the bank treat Ms L as if shed agreed to fix 
the interest rate for five years instead of 25 years. 
While not agreeing with the adjudicators conclusions,  the bank said it would implement her 
recommendation. However,  Ms L disagreed. She said that if shed been  adequately informed 
about the potential break  costs, she would have opted for a variable  rate instead and not 
taken out fixed  rate lending at all. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms L but Ive come 
to broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator.
While I dont think its a determinative issue in this case, my finding is that it wasnt a lending 
condition that Ms L should fix the interest rate. My reading of the relevant papers is that the 
bank would have  been content to lend entirely at the variable rate and the application was 
proceeding on that basis. Then, at a fairly  late stage,  the bank said yes to part of the lending  
being at a fixed rate, ostensibly  at Ms Ls request. 
Ref: DRN28287442An email within the bank on 18 April 2013  said: Can you confirm a change to FIXED  
would be ok please in principle.
An email within the bank on 22 April 2013  said: The new loan is [precise  amount  of 
loan] including  Arrangement Fee over 25 years at either  [precise details of variable 
rate] or [precise details of fixed rate].
An email within the bank later on 22 April 2013 said: I can confirm agreement to 
proceed if customer chooses a fixed loan for the whole period as it does strengthen 
the position for both Bank  and customer.
The emphases above are mine. 
So the banks  final approval was on the basis of part of the lending  being fixed rate. But that 
didnt necessarily mean the bank wouldnt have approved the lending  if it had been entirely 
variable rate - I think it would have done so. 
I too am of the view that the bank didnt adequately explain the potential  size of break costs  
to Ms L before she agreed  to the fixed rate loan. That being so, I have  to decide what  if 
anything shed have  done differently if shed been  better informed. This isnt an exact 
science, and I have  to base my conclusions on the available evidence. 
What I dont do in this situation is to assume that the banks inadequate explanation  of break 
costs was effectively binding so that Ms L has to pay break  costs  up to the level indicated in 
the banks explanatory material. 
After careful consideration, the conclusions  Ive come to are:
The bank  didnt  advise Ms L either to take out the fixed  rate loan or more generally in 
relation to the loan as a commercial  proposition.  Theres  nothing  in writing to indicate 
the bank gave any advice, nor do I infer from the evidence that such  advice was 
given. The loan agreement  signed by Ms L specifically states: You recognise that 
the Bank has no duty to give you advice and you have not received or relied upon  
any advice given  by the Bank.
The banks records contain the following notes from the time before the fixed rate 
loan was finalised: [Ms L] was originally looking at fixing the new loan for 25 years 
but the conversation came up that she would like to sell potentially [some of the] 
properties that the loan is against, and reduce the debt at some point in the near 
future. She does want to keep  any outstanding debt on a long term fix. She plans to 
keep the remaining property and the [other] property until the loans are repaid  
(25Y+).
The same  record then states that the bank and Ms L looked  at splitting the new loan 
between variable rate lending  and fixed rate lending   which is what  happened  and 
the record continues: This structure  gives [Ms L] the certainty that she would like for 
the properties that she plans to keep, whilst maintaining the flexibility for her to repay 
the borrowing  that she would like the ability to clear early. While  only moderately 
different to the original structure, this does seem to fit better  with the clients  plans.
From  this evidence I conclude that (a) there  were sound commercial reasons, as 
Ms L assessed them, for Ms L to fix the interest rate on part of her lending,  and that 
(b) it was Ms Ls wish and decision to enter into the fixed rate loan; it wasnt imposed  
on her by the bank,  nor (I repeat) did the bank advise Ms L to fix.
In my view, this makes  it probable  that Ms L would  still have considered  entering into 
a fixed rate loan,  even  if shed been  better informed about break costs. 
Ref: DRN28287443In principle it was for Ms L to assess if a 25 year fix was appropriate for her business. 
The bank  didnt  owe Ms L any duty to assess this for her.
But Ms Ls assessment took place without the bank having adequately informed her 
about break costs.  
My conclusion  is that, with adequate information about break costs, Ms L would still 
have pursued the commercial goal of achieving a mixture  of certainty and flexibility,  
based on her plans as she saw them at the time. But she would have reduced the 
risk of having to pay very large break  costs under  a 25 year fix, by reducing the term 
of the proposed fix from 25 years to five years.  
Finally, Ms L asked for her legal costs  in bringing her complaint to be reimbursed by the 
bank. I endorse the adjudicators comments in this respect. It isnt our usual practice to 
award such costs, and I see no reason to depart from our usual practice in this case.  
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the bank to pay the 
balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation 
requires Lloyds Bank PLC to carry out the steps  I specify below. I order  the bank to do this - 
up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000. 
Recommendation: If the financial  effect of carrying out in full the steps I specify exceeds  
£150,000, I recommend that Lloyds Bank PLC carry them  out in full. 
This recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. It doesnt bind the bank. Its 
unlikely that Ms L can accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the balance. She may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision. 
the specified steps
Reimburse the difference in payments between the existing product and the 
replacement product (a five year fix) during  the five year term. If the payments are 
more than for the existing 25 year fixed rate, Lloyds Bank PLC can offset this against  
any losses. The loan will be settled  on the basis of the appropriate  variable rate 
thereafter. 
Reimburse the difference in payments between the existing and replacement  
products after the loan would have moved to the variable rate. 
Calculate what the break cost would have  been  on the part repayment in 2014 if the 
rate had been fixed for five years  instead  of 25 years, and reimburse  any 
overpayment to Ms L.
Absorb any break  costs that would be payable now.
Ref: DRN28287444Add compensatory  interest at 8% simple a year to the reimbursed  payments  from the 
date the cost arose to the date of settlement. 
If the bank  believes  its legally obliged to deduct  income tax from the interest, it should send 
a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Ms L may be able to reclaim any overpaid tax 
from HMRC, depending  on her circumstances.
The bank has yet to confirm the fixed interest rate for five years and provide redress 
calculations. I require  the bank to provide this information within 14 days  of the date of this 
decision, so that Ms L can assess whether or not to accept my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2828744