K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services  Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Miss P bought  the policy  in 2004  at the same time as taking  out a store card. She applied  for 
the store card and PPI policy in store. 
At the time,  Miss P was employed  as a cook. She has told us she was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying her store card should she be unable  to 
work. Based on her length of service with her employer I think  its likely she would have 
received statutory sick pay and a statutory  redundancy payment. Miss P has said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale, although she has told us about conditions  she suffered 
from in the years after taking out this policy. 
Miss P initially told us that she had multiple  jobs at the time of the sale but didnt provide any 
details other  than what Ive mentioned above. FICL  told us Miss P said in a telephone 
conversation it had with her that she worked full time. We asked Miss P for more information 
about this discrepancy  in her employment arrangements  but have not received a response.
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  15% of Miss Ps store  card balance in the 
event of Miss P being unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. For 
claims under the life section the policy would  clear the outstanding balance  on the card, up 
to a maximum of £15,000.
The policy also provided price and purchase  protection. Miss P hasnt complained  about this 
element of the insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision.  
At the time,  the policy cost £1.50 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The premium  
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Miss Ps representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ps representative says:
FICL  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss P wouldnt 
Ref: DRN25586782have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means FICL should  have  told 
Miss P about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means FICL should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss P and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss P received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Miss P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ps. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
Ref: DRN25586783about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller   its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, FICL was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not FICL  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of FICL. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Miss Ps case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
Ref: DRN25586784of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so FICL  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Miss P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether FICL gave  Miss P sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss P and 
FICL, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss P know she had a choice?
FICL had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Miss P at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name  used by FICL  
for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account cover. 
Miss P has signed  the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Miss P didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And she has signed  the overall application 
form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss P knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did FICL provide  advice?
Both FICL and Miss P agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  FICL didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss P. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Miss P to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN25586785the information
FICL has provided us with Miss Ps application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. 
Ive also seen a copy of the terms and conditions of the cover  which  I accept on a balance  
of probabilities  applied  to policies like Miss Ps. 
Looking at the information provided to Miss P at the time, I dont think FICL gave Miss P the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a store. I dont know what FICL told Miss P about the PPI but I think 
its unlikely she would  have agreed  to take it out without at least having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Miss P would have thought it was free.
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Miss Ps attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Miss P, including the need to maintain premiums during 
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely FICL adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Miss P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ps representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ps. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ps representative considers to be poor  
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say       
 I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having  to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
Ref: DRN25586786exclusions in the way Miss P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes 
and standards  of good industry  practice  applicable  to this complaint, I dont think  it would be 
fair or reasonable  to impose such requirements on FICL. 
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Miss  P? To what extent did Miss P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss P. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not she 
would have still taken  out the policy, had FICL done things properly. 
Miss P says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss P had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss P thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss P ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that FICL  didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Miss P 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to sickness, disease, condition or injury  which  
Miss P knew about or should have known about  or for which  she had received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy would end when  Miss P reached 65 or permanently retired; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss P be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Miss P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
Ref: DRN25586787limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss P from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss P didnt have any           
pre-existing medical conditions at the time of the sale and, from the information that is 
available, she was in permanent, full-time employment. So, I still think she had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems - Miss P has told us 
that she suffered  from back pain at some point after she took out the policy  - and the steps  
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss P 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss P from taking out the policy, Miss P, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Miss P has said she turned 60 while the PPI was in force and at that time she stopped  being  
eligible for the cover. The policy would end on the earliest of the date Miss P reached  the 
age of 65 or the date on which she permanently retired. At the time of the sale the state 
retirement age for women was 60 (although this had changed by the time Miss P turned 60), 
so its possible thats when she was planning  on retiring. But Miss P was 50 when she took 
out the PPI, so I think its more likely than not shed  have  thought  shed still get some value 
out of having the PPI, as it would  have covered her for a reasonable period of time.
If Miss P had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do her job, any 
similar job or any other paid work  which, in the insurers view, her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  she 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given her pause for thought  although its 
possible she may not have been  overly concerned given that if Miss P was unable (through 
disability) to carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss P would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her statutory  employment  benefits that I think  she would have 
been entitled to. And in those circumstances  I consider it more likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Miss Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN25586788the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss P 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude that FICL should pay Miss P compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss P thinks FICL misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
FICLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why FICL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  FICL gave  Miss P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ps representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find FICL negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss P and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that FICL had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss P in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN25586789my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2558678