K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about a hire purchase  agreement  brokered by Carfinance  Plan Limited 
(trading as Car Finance Plus), and related issues.
background
In August  2018  Mr W bought a car under a hire purchase agreement  brokered by Car 
Finance Plus and financed by a third party. At the same  time he part exchanged his old car 
and settled his old agreement. He paid a deposit of £500.
Shortly afterwards, he complained about a number of issues. He complained that some 
figures were  miscalculated  and he was charged  £500 too much. He said that car Finance 
Plus had withheld some cheaper offers from other lenders. He also says that one of its call 
handlers was rude.
In an email, Car Finance Plus admitted to poor customer service,  and apologised, although it 
denied that its call handler had been  rude.  It offered Mr W a customer deposit contribution  of 
£250, but Mr W didnt  accept that, and it has since been withdrawn. In a later letter, dated 7 
September 2018, Car Finance Plus accused  Mr W of providing wrong figures himself in an 
email, and showed him conflicting figures  which had been provided  by the dealer only 13 
minutes earlier. Later, in its final response letter, Car Finance Plus pointed  out that it had 
been Mr Ws own choice to enter the agreement  no one had forced  him to, and he had had 
14 days in which to change his mind and withdraw from it.
Mr W brought this complaint to our Service, but our investigator did not uphold it. She agreed 
that the wrong figures had been provided  briefly,  but said that this had been rectified before 
Mr W signed the agreement. She did accept that there breakdown of the relevant figures had 
not been clear. She explained that Mr W had had to pay £500  because the maximum 
amount the finance provider could lend was not enough to cover the price of the new car and 
the settlement  figure for the old. She agreed that it had been  Mr Ws choice to enter the 
agreement and to pay the £500 deposit,  and that hed been given 14 days to change  his 
mind. She said Car Finance Plus hadnt  withheld any offers from other  lenders, because  
there hadnt been any. She said she couldnt consider Mr Ws complaint about  the brokers  
customer service  generally.
Mr W was not satisfied  with that decision,  so this case has been  referred  to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it most  of it, but I will 
award Mr W £50 for what Car Finance  Plus said in its 7 September letter.  I will explain why.
I agree  with our investigator that the relevant figures have not been set out clearly,  and so it 
is easy to see why Mr W did not understand  what had happened. So I will begin  by setting 
some of them out here. These figures have been  or still are  in dispute, and I will deal 
with that issue  next. I will then come back to the rest of the figures.
The settlement figure for the old agreement  was £4,909.07.
The old car was part exchanged for £3,000.
The cash  price of the new car was £7,900.
Ref: DRN26524822On 3 August  2018 there was some confusion about two of these figures,  the second and 
third. Mr W received an email  from the dealer which gave the part exchange figure as 
£2,600, and the price of the new car as £7,950. This has never been explained. But I am 
satisfied that the figures in that email were wrong,  because I have seen the credit  providers 
internal notes, entitled Application Diary  Customers  Application  Information. The entries  
for 3 August,  and all of the entries  after that date, give the figures I quoted  in the list above   
£3,000 and £7,900,  respectively.  The first entry to give these figures is labelled Dealer 
Comment, so I infer that these figures  were  provided by the dealer. They are certainly the 
figures which were used to calculate the amount of credit in the finance agreement, as I shall 
show later.  They were not made  up by Mr W.
As Car Finance Plus has pointed out, it received an email from Mr W only 13 minutes  after 
the dealers email with the wrong figures  in it. Mr Ws email gave the correct figures, which 
I am sure he obtained from the dealer. But in its 7 September letter, Car Finance Plus said in 
strong terms that the dealers figures  were correct, and implied that Mr W had sought to 
mislead it. Since I am satisfied (for reasons I will come to) that Car Finance Plus was wrong,  
it is worth  quoting what it said about this issue in full, because I intend to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint for this issue and award him £50  specifically, for misinforming him about the 
figures in the finance agreement. (I will substitute  an X for the name  of a staff member at 
Car Finance Plus.)
The settlement figure was different due to you giving X the wrong figures in the first 
place as shown below in the correspondence between  the dealership and you and 
then you and X. It is peculiar  that you would send X completely different figures  
thirteen minutes following the receipt of the figures from the dealership. This will be a 
question for the Ombudsman to consider. Have you included these Emails in your 
correspondence with them?
The tone of that paragraph  is regrettable, and that is why I think  it is fair to order Car Finance 
Plus to pay Mr W £50 for its error  even though it was misled by figures  provided  to it by the 
dealership. When  Mr W challenged  the figures he had been given, it was incumbent on Car 
Finance Plus to investigate them, not just to accept the dealers figures  (which  have turned 
out to be wrong)  and then blame  its customer.  A simple attempt to calculate the amount of 
credit in the hire purchase agreement would have  revealed that the figures in the first email 
must be incorrect.
As I have already  said, the correct settlement figure was £4,909.07. (I will come back  to the 
wrong settlement  figure later.) The finance  provider sent the dealership a cheque for £4,900  
exactly, and the difference of £9.07  was added  to the amount of credit.  Mr W paid a deposit 
of £500, which I shall explain  later.  So the amount of credit was calculated as follows (the 
column on the right is a running total):
Cash price  of new car = £7,900
Plus £4,900 cheque = £12,800
Minus  £3,000 part exchange  figure =£9,800
Minus  £500 deposit = £9,300     .
Plus £9.07 = £9,309.07 = total amount of credit
£9,309.07 is indeed the amount of credit given in the hire purchase  agreement.  That figure is 
not in dispute. A clear breakdown of how it was calculated appears in the finance  providers 
internal notes in an entry  dated  6 August 2018  (which of course Mr W has never  seen).
Ref: DRN26524823Obviously, if the incorrect  figures given  in the dealers email, and quoted by Car Finance 
Plus in its 7 September letter, had been used instead, then the total amount of credit would 
have been different. It would have been £450  greater: £9,759.07.
The other figure which has been  unclear is the settlement figure. Originally, on 3 August,  this 
was said to be £4,909.07. The next day, it was said to be £4,979.47. Again, these figures  
appear to have come from the dealer. On 4 August, both Mr W and the broker complained  to 
the finance provider, and eight minutes  later the figure was corrected  back  to £4,909.07. 
That figure didnt  change again, and was used in the finance agreement, which Mr W signed 
on 6 August. So Im satisfied that Car Finance Plus was not responsible  for this error; that 
Car Finance Plus promptly took action to resolve the problem;  that the error was corrected 
immediately; that Mr W suffered no loss as a result; and that his hire purchase  agreement 
was not affected.  I do not uphold his complaint about that matter.
The reason  why Mr W had to pay a £500  deposit was because  the finance  provider was not 
willing to lend him the £9,809.07 he needed. It was only willing to lend him £9,309.07, and so 
there was a shortfall of £500. That is not Car Finance Pluss  fault.  Nor did Car Finance Plus 
make Mr W pay the deposit. It was the price he had to pay to get the car he wanted,  and it 
was his choice  to pay it. He had 14 days to change his mind. So there is nothing in that 
complaint, if indeed that is what he is complaining  about, but it may not be. As well as having 
to repay  the £9,309.07 he borrowed,  he also had to pay another  £500 in fees,  so he might  
mean that. In case that is the £500 he is complaining about, I will deal with that too.
I can deal with it briefly. The fees consist of an acceptance fee of £325 and an option  to 
purchase fee of £175. They are clearly set out in the hire purchase  agreement,  which Mr W 
signed. Im satisfied that Car Finance Plus did enough to bring them  to his attention. Even  if 
I took a different view about that, Mr W had had a hire purchase agreement  before, so he 
ought to have known about  them from last time.  Even if I took a different view about that, he 
had 14 days to change  his mind, if he didnt want to pay the fees, and in any case  the option 
to pay fee is optional. I dont uphold this part of this complaint.
There is no evidence that any other  lenders were willing  to lend to Mr W, and I cant  see why 
he thinks that they were, let alone  why he thinks Car Finance Plus withheld  such  offers from 
him. Car Finance Plus says that only one lender offered  to finance the agreement,  which 
was the lender they used.  Again, if Mr W didnt like the terms of the loan, then he didnt have 
to sign the finance agreement. I dont uphold this.
Ive seen no evidence  that anyone at Car Finance Plus was rude to Mr W, apart from the 
paragraph I have  quoted  from its letter. I dont  uphold that complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Carfinance Plan Limited (trading  as 
Car Finance Plus)  to pay Mr W £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2652482