K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc set up a savings account  rather than the 
trust account  he wanted. Hes also unhappy  because the bank informed HM Revenue  and 
Customs that he earned interest on the account and hes been  asked to pay tax on this.
background
In July 2017 Mr S visited a Co-op  branch to open an account. He says he wanted a trust 
account but a savings  account was opened  instead.
Mr S subsequently received a tax bill. He complained to Co-op that he shouldnt  have to pay 
tax on the interest.  He wanted Co-op  to write to HMRC saying the account had been set up 
incorrectly. 
Mr S says as far as he was aware  he had set up a trust account.  He says he provided a 
copy of the trust document to the advisor in branch.
Co-op has said it didnt  offer trust accounts  in 2017. It also said it had a legal obligation to 
report interest to HMRC.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said there was nothing to suggest that a 
trust account  had been discussed at the time when Mr S visited the branch. 
Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the account application form and the system notes  provided  by the bank. The 
application form doesnt say that the account is a trust account. The system  notes show that 
Mr S had discussions with the advisor  about the money being  set aside for his sons  care but 
the notes dont make any reference to the account being a trust account.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about  his discussions in branch. Hes said he told 
the advisor that he wanted to open  a trust account.  Hes also said that the advisor took a 
copy of the trust document and told Mr S that a trust account had been opened.
I wasnt present when Mr S discussed  the account  with the advisor  so I cant  be certain  of 
exactly what was said. In these circumstances I have to make  my decision based  on what is 
most likely to have happened, taking into account all of the available  information.  
The bank has provided its business  file. Ive reviewed this but theres no reference  at all to a 
trust account. Nor can I locate a copy of the trust deed. If the advisor had taken a copy  of the 
trust deed I would have  expected to find this within the business  file.
I dont doubt that Mr S wanted to open  a trust account and I dont question  his version of 
events. But on the available evidence theres nothing  to suggest that a trust account was 
requested.
Ref: DRN25264322Even if Mr S had requested a trust account, it wouldnt  have been possible to open  one 
because Co-op  has confirmed that it hasnt offered trust accounts  since  2014.
I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling  about  this and I appreciate that he is disappointed at 
being asked to pay tax on the interest  earned  on the account. But weighing  up the available  
evidence, I havent  seen anything to persuade me that the bank  has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2526432