K821x#15complaint
Ms R says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 14 instalment loans Satsuma provided to Ms R between  March 2016 
and June 2019. Ms R borrowed amounts ranging between  £100 and £750 to be repaid in 
weekly or monthly instalments over periods between three and twelve months. There was a 
significant break in the lending after loan one. Her loans sometimes overlapped so that there  
was more than one repayment due each month.  From what  I can see, amounts are still 
outstanding for loans  13 and 14. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Rs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Satsuma disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms R could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN20992782Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Satsuma asked Ms R for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Ms R said she earned £1,400  for loan one and then about  £900 a month for 
the rest of her loans. she said her monthly  outgoings  were  about £400 to £550. I cant  see 
that Satsumas credit  checks found  anything untoward that should have prompted  further 
checks.
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Ms Rs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Satsuma, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Ms R provided or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Ms R was saying. From  the information Ms R provided, the loans looked 
affordable. So I cant  say that Satsuma was wrong  to provide loans one to four. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history  with Ms R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Rs case, I think that this point  was reached by 
loan five. I say this because the pattern of lending showed that Ms R had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans:
Loan five was Ms Rs fifth loan in seven months and the amounts she borrowed had 
stayed about the same.
From  loan five onwards Ms R was provided  with a new loan within  weeks of settling a 
previous one. So Satsuma ought  to have realised it was more  likely than not Ms R was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Ms Rs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma.  Loan  14 was 
taken out three and a half years after loan two, the start of her chain of borrowing. And it 
was for a larger amount. Ms R had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a 
debt to Satsuma  over an extended  period.
I think that Ms R lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
Ref: DRN20992783these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Rs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Ms Rs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 to 14 and I think  Satsuma should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms R paid on loans 5 to 14 and waive any still 
outstanding; this refund should be offset against  the balance  of capital Ms R still owes  
and the remainder paid to her; or, if a balance remains  outstanding, an affordable 
repayment plan should be set up to clear the balance.
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  5 to 14 should be removed from Ms Rs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Ms Rs complaint. I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  to pay Ms R compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2099278