K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold an income  
protection insurance policy  to him in 2002.
background
Mr M and his wife took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2002.  At that time Mr M was also 
sold an income protection insurance  policy. Mr M was self-employed  at the time and the 
purpose of the policy was to provide him with a reduced income should he ever become 
unable to work due to an accident or ill health.  
However, the policy sold to Mr M had a 52 weeks deferral period,  which  means he would 
have had to have been off work  for a year before  he was able to claim successfully on the 
policy. As he was self-employed Mr M has said this made the policy worthless for him. He 
has told us he was unaware of the 52 weeks wait period and if he had known about  it he 
would never  have taken out the policy.
Barclays said that it was appropriate for cover to be in place but that an eight-week 
deferment period  wouldve better suited Mr Ms needs. However,  it has also explained that 
the policy with the eight-week  wait time was considerably more  expensive and as such it 
doesnt feel Mr M has lost out as a result of the mistake made. In addition,  it has said that 
the deferment period was clearly set out in all the paperwork sent to Mr M at the time of sale 
as well as on each  annual  renewal.  Finally  Barclays has argued that as Mr M never needed  
to claim against the policy, there has been  no actual  financial loss. And so, it doesnt believe  
it needs to do anything more to correct  the mistake  that was made. 
Mr M disagrees. He says that the policy was mis-sold and as such  he should be entitled to a 
full refund of all the premiums he paid. He has said he could never have used the policy so 
Barclays should give him back the money  he paid for it. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  already  but she didnt  uphold  it. Mr M 
disagreed with her findings and so the complaint has been passed  to me to consider. 
my finding
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
the complaint  and Id like to explain why. 
When we investigate complaints, we are trying to establish whether the business did 
everything that it should have done  in the circumstances of the individual complaint. If we 
find that the business didnt do everything as it should  have,  we ask what  impact the mistake 
had on the consumer, and where  necessary direct the business to put the consumer back in 
the position they would have been in if everything  had been  done correctly. 
In this instance Mr M has said that the policy was mis-sold to him and that he could never  
have had claimed against it if he had ever needed  to. Barclays  has said that a policy with an 
eight-week deferred period would have been  more suitable, but it has said that if he had 
made an eligible  claim, it would have paid out after 52 weeks. In the circumstances  I need  to 
establish is what would have happened had everything been properly explained to Mr M 
when he purchased the policy.
Ref: DRN23807202.
Barclays has explained that the policy Mr M bought cost him just under £12 per month. It has 
said that there was another policy available  with an eight  week wait deferment  period but this 
policy cost over £50 per month.
When we spoke to Mr M, we explained  that there was an alternative policy available at the 
time and what the cost difference would have been. Mr M confirmed to us, in two separate  
conversations, that had he been aware  of the alternate  policy he would have taken it out 
instead. He said that the price difference wouldnt have been  an issue  and he would have 
bought the more expensive policy as it he would have been  able to use it if he had ever 
needed to. 
The next thing  I need to consider is whether Mr M was disadvantaged  by having the policy  
he did. Mr M has confirmed he never actually made a claim against the policy.  He has said 
that at one point  he was out of work for three  or four weeks but didnt claim because of the 
deferment period.  However, even if Mr M had bought the alternate  policy,  it still had an eight-
week deferral period built into it so Mr M still wouldnt  have been  able to claim for this period 
of ill health. 
Therefore, it seems to me that if everything had gone the way it should have gone  when  the 
policy was sold Mr M would  still have  bought  a policy. But it would have been a much more  
expensive policy, and he still wouldnt have ever made a claim against it. So, despite  the fact 
that the most  suitable policy wasnt sold to him, Mr M hasnt actually lost out financially as a 
result. In fact, the mistake  has saved  him money  each  month  because  the policy he paid for 
was considerably less expensive  than the policy he should have been recommended and 
would have bought.
I can appreciate its frustrating for Mr M to know he paid premiums for something  he couldnt 
have used unless  he was unable to work for over a year, but the nature  of insurance is that 
we often pay premiums for policies  we hope well never need or use. And while  I do agree a 
policy with an eight-week deferment period would have been much more  suitable, I cant say 
that Mr M has suffered  a financial loss because he wasnt sold the most suitable  policy  in 
2002. And so I wont be asking Barclays  to do anything more in relation to this complaint.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380720