K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  hasnt told him how 
much his premium will increase to on renewal  if he makes  a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. He says he wants to know so he can decide whether to pay for the accident repairs 
himself.
 
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
It was reasonable  for an insurer to decline to tell a customer what a premium  is likely 
to be if a claim is made. It could be misleading  for it to do so as there are many  
factors that go into calculating a renewal premium and not just the claims history. If 
Mr R was given an indicative figure a lot of factors could still change.  They may need 
to be taken into account before the renewal  and might result  in the premium being a 
lot higher than estimated.
The policy terms and conditions say Mr R will be sent his renewal invitation three 
weeks before the renewal date. This will show the renewal  premium  and any policy  
changes. Thats  in good time for Mr R to make an informed decision about renewing. 
But LV doesnt  have  to offer information  in order for Mr R to make  an informed 
decision on whether  or not to make a claim.
LV isnt obliged to offer the requested information to Mr R and it hasnt made  a 
mistake. He isnt asking LV to do any more.
Mr R remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says LV isnt being  
open or transparent. It could give projected  estimate  based  on the information it holds. It 
would give new customer a quote.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs frustration. But LV isnt obliged to give him an estimated renewal quote 
so he can make a decision about  making a claim or paying for accident repairs himself. The 
terms and conditions of his policy only say he will be sent a renewal invitation,  including a 
renewal premium quote, three weeks before  the renewal date.
Furthermore even if LV did give him an estimated renewal quote its quite likely it wouldnt 
prove to be correct. Renewal quotes  will be calculated using a wide range of underwriting  
criteria nearer the renewal  date. Although claims history is likely  one factor taken into 
account its also probable that other  market  factors will be used which  change  very 
frequently. So LV is acting responsibly  by not giving  an estimated renewal quote as this 
could prove  to be very misleading.
Mr R also makes the point that LV would give a new customer a quote. That may well be the 
case. But that should also properly  be based  on the customers declared actual information  
at that time, not on a hypothetical  situation or factors that might  apply in the future.
Ref: DRN24392182Overall I agree with the investigator  that LV hasnt done anything  wrong.  And I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably ask it to do anything more or differently as Mr R would like.
I recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling  but I dont  see any compelling reason  to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2439218