K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about their mortgage  account with Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited.
Mr and Mrs W complain that:
Kensington inflated the arrears in court proceedings.
their monthly payment increased  after a refund  of over £8,000 had been applied to their 
mortgage account. 
Kensington threatened them with eviction and harassed them.
Kensington charged a fee for considering their request  for a payment holiday. 
Kensington didnt  respond to their request for a payment  holiday  or capitalisation of 
arrears. 
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs W took out an interest only mortgage with Kensington. It had a fixed 
rate for three  years then a variable rate. Unfortunately the account fell into arrears and 
Kensington obtained a suspended  possession  order in 2007, when arrears were around  
£3,500. Regrettably  the arrears have increased significantly since then.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us about  the mortgage  in 2015. At that time they were unhappy 
about the way Kensington had dealt with the arrears and possession  action. They  were  also 
unhappy about arrears fees that had been added. And Mr and Mrs W complained about the 
interest rate applied  to the mortgage account.  
On 7 December  2015 an ombudsman issued  a final decision on that complaint. He didnt 
uphold the complaint about the interest rate, finding that the application of the Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) was correct and that Kensington was not acting unfairly in its 
application of SVR to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage account. 
The ombudsman also ordered Kensington  to pay Mr and Mrs W £500  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, and to remove arrears  fees for the months where theyd paid 
95% or more of the contractual monthly  repayment.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs W complained to us again, this time about the issues  listed  above.
Our adjudicator thought that Kensington had dealt fairly with Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He 
said that he was only looking  at new issues that had arisen  since  the previous ombudsmans 
decision on 7 December  2015. The adjudicator  also explained that he couldnt look at 
anything the court had made  a decision on. 
The adjudicator said Kensington  applied a refund to Mr and Mrs Ws account in May 2018,  
which reduced the arrears  from over £28,000 to just over £20,000. He said that as Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage account was on a variable rate, their payment had increased. The 
adjudicator said that Kensington had operated  the account in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions. 
The adjudicator said that Kensington accepted that it didnt reply to Mr and Mrs Ws request 
for a payment  holiday  but its very unlikely that it would have agreed to one, given the 
conduct of the account. 
Ref: DRN25856472Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with the adjudicator. They said:
they are aware  their mortgage  is on a variable rate  their complaint was how many  
times Kensington had changed their payment over a few months; 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  advised  Kensington to offer compensation  to 
customers who, like them, had been overcharged  but they didnt receive 
compensation; 
Kensington inflated the arrears figures when it asked the court  for possession.  
When Kensington credited the refund of £8,000  to their account, their monthly  
payment increased;
their payment has increased several times;
Kensington denies that a repayment  arrangement is in place.
The adjudicator agreed that Mr and Mrs Ws payments had changed a number of times but 
didnt think that thered  been an error. He said that the refund of over £8,000 was applied  to 
the arrears, which  he thought was fair. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept the adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision. They cant understand why, even after the redress reduced their 
arrears, their repayments have increased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mrs J and Mrs W wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
I will not be commenting on anything  covered  by the previous ombudsmans decision issued 
on 7 December 2015  which includes the concerns  Mr and Mrs W have  raised again about  
the interest rate. Likewise, any issue that has been  dealt with by the court  in the course of 
the possession  proceedings isnt something  I will be commenting on  including Mr Ws 
recent comments about the possession hearing he was told not to attend  (and which, in any 
event, was dealt  with by the previous ombudsman).
Its not my role to audit the account to determine  whether or not Kensington has run the 
account correctly.  My role is to review the complaint,  and I have done so.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W cant understand why their repayments have increased even 
though redress  was paid which reduced their arrears. This is an interest-only mortgage. 
What this means is that interest is calculated on the principal sum borrowed  in this case 
(according to the mortgage offer) £97,750.  Interest is payable  over the term of 30 years,  and 
at the end of the term Mr and Mrs W will have to pay back  £97,750 to Kensington to repay 
the principal sum borrowed.
But in this case there are also substantial arrears,  as well as fees for arrears administration  
and the legal and court fees incurred as a result  of the possession action. All of these accrue 
interest. Importantly, and crucial to this case,  any amount over and above the original sum 
borrowed needs to be repaid by the end date of the mortgage  term.  This means  that 
Ref: DRN25856473Kensington calculates the repayment of arrears, fees, etc. on a capital and interest  basis, so 
that they are cleared by the end of the term.
The mortgage terms and conditions provide for this at clause 12, which  says that any sums 
other than the principal  is repayable on demand  or, at Kensingtons discretion by way of 
increase in the monthly payment. Clause 13 says that the debt  which includes all fees, 
charges, costs (and interest on those  items)  is repayable before the end of the mortgage 
term.
The mortgage terms and conditions also say at clause 17.1 that payments made are applied 
in the following order:
1.towards fees and charges;
2.towards interest;
3.finally, any surplus is applied towards the capital balance.
Given this, although  I understand  Mr and Mrs Ws confusion, I can see why repayments  
have increased  even though, by Mr and Mrs Ws calculation, they think the payments should  
go down. I agree with the conclusions set out by the adjudicator in his letter  dated 
5 February 2019,  where hes gone over interest rate increases and explained how these 
have affected  the monthly repayments.
Kensington doesnt offer payment holidays to customers. Although mortgage regulations  
(known as MCOB) say that lenders should  consider payment holidays, theyre  not obliged  to 
do so. Generally payment holidays are intended as a short-term measure where the 
borrowers situation has changed  temporarily  for example maternity leave, a hiatus 
between jobs or something  of that nature.
It doesnt appear to me that Mr and Mrs Ws situation is temporary,  or that their reasons for 
requesting a payment holiday are reasonable. I see from their letter to Kensington dated 
30 June 2018  that they wanted a payment holiday for 3 months so they could prioritise 
payments to other  creditors.  I cant see that it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
Kensington to agree  to this. 
Mr and Mrs W also asked  Kensington to capitalise arrears of almost  £20,000.  Again, 
although this is something MCOB asks lenders  to think  about, theres no obligation on 
Kensington to agree  to it, particularly as this is an interest-only mortgage. This is because 
capitalisation would actually increase, rather than reduce, Mr and Mrs Ws debt. 
As I explained above, arrears are currently repaid on a capital and interest repayment basis. 
So over the remaining term,  payments towards  the arrears  consist  partly of interest  and 
partly of capital. Due to amortising, over the long term, the amount of interest charged on the 
arrears decreases as more of the capital is repaid. But if Kensington was to capitalise 
£20,000 of arrears, Mr and Mrs W would pay interest on that sum over the remaining 
18 years  of the term and would still owe the additional £20,000 at the end of it. As they do 
not appear to have  a separate investment set up to repay the £97,500, I think  its unlikely 
they would  have sufficient funds to pay off an extra £20,000 at the end of the term either.
To clarify my reasons,  an online mortgage repayment calculator shows that over 18 years,  
£20,000 on a capital repayment basis at an interest rate of 5% would cost, overall, £30,379. 
But on an interest-only  basis  it would cost £38,012  over the same  period  including the final 
lump sum payment of £20,000.
Ref: DRN25856474I appreciate Kensington didnt respond  to Mr and Mrs Ws request either for a payment 
holiday or to have their arrears capitalised. I can see Kensington offered £50 compensation 
for this, and I dont  require  it to do anything more. Mr and Mrs W say Kensington charged 
them a fee for considering their request for a payment  holiday.  But this contradicts their 
complaint that Kensington failed  to respond  to their request. I havent seen any fee charged  
for considering a payment  holiday  in the list of charges applied to the account.
Given what Ive said above, I dont think it would have been  appropriate  for Kensington to 
offer a payment holiday so that Mr and Mrs W could pay other creditors  instead. Nor do I 
think capitalisation of arrears would have been in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests, taking into 
account the fact that this would increase their overall  debt rather  than reduce it.
Kensington is required by the FCA to contact customers in arrears.  Im not persuaded the 
contact Kensington  has initiated constitutes harassment. The arrears are substantial  and 
long-standing and efforts to work with Mr and Mrs W to reduce the arrears  since 2007  have  
proved unsuccessful.  There is a limit to the forbearance Kensington is expected to give to 
customers in arrears,  particularly where there has been no substantial reduction in the 
arrears, nor any evidence of a realistic  prospect of them being cleared.
So in that context, I dont criticise Kensington for continuing with legal action.  It is, of course,  
always open to Mr and Mrs W to ask the court to make a payment arrangement by way of a 
suspended possession order, if they are unable to meet  the terms of the existing order.
But I must emphasise that where  there are genuine arrears  which  are the subject of a 
possession order (suspended or not), we would not require  a lender to put legal action on 
hold whilst a complaint is referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service  about other issues.  
Mr and Mrs W have  had the opportunity to put their arguments before the court about the 
arrears figures. 
The court has granted a possession order in favour  of Kensington (albeit  suspended), on the 
basis of the arrears figures  provided by Kensington.  The Financial Ombudsman Service  
cant interfere with that. So its not open to us to go behind the court  order  and decide 
something different  from the court about the arrears.
I am explaining this because  I dont want Mr and Mrs W to be under the misapprehension 
that, if the current order is breached and Kensington decides to take further action, they can 
complain to us about the arrears and matters  will be put on hold again. The court is satisfied 
the arrears are due and payable to Kensington, so if Mr and Mrs W want  to dispute the 
amount of the arrears, theyll need  to go back to court.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were  hoping  for. I can see they are trying hard to 
stay in their home, at least until the end of the mortgage term in 2037. But after considering  
everything Mr and Mrs W and Kensington have  told us, I dont  think Kensington has done  
anything wrong  or treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Ref: DRN25856475Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2585647