K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited terminated her group income 
protection claim. 
background
After stopping work, Mrs F made a claim under the policy.  In 2017, Aviva  accepted  the claim. 
In July 2018, Aviva reviewed the claim and arranged  for Mrs F to have an independent  
medical examination  (IME). The examiner thought Mrs F could go back to work. Aviva 
therefore terminated the claim. Unhappy with this, Mrs F brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Avivas  decision 
was reasonable,  based on the available evidence.  
Mrs F didnt  accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed  to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Aviva chose to terminate the claim, the onus  is on Aviva to show that Mrs F was able to 
return to work. 
When Aviva  reviewed the claim, it arranged for Mrs F to have an IME. At the time of the 
review, I note Mrs F was under the care of a consultant neurologist.  Id usually expect an 
insurer to ask the opinion of a treating consultant  before arranging an IME. However, in Mrs 
Fs case, I see that shed  only met her treating  consultant  on one occasion when the review 
took place. Although shed previously been seen by a different consultant neurologist,  I 
understand the relationship had apparently  broken down between them. Consequently, I 
think it was reasonable  for Aviva to arrange the IME, given that Mrs Fs treating specialist at 
the time hadnt  seen her on a regular  basis. 
The IME was carried out by Dr S (consultant in occupational medicine).  Dr S thought a 
component of Mrs Fs symptoms were  of a functional and behavioural origin, potentially 
linked to a long history  of anxiety. He thought this was a viewpoint shared by Mrs Fs 
previous consultant neurologist. Dr S said the working diagnosis  was that of chronic 
migraine, but he thought  the principal factors influencing the likelihood  of 
Mrs F returning to work were behavioural responses, rather  than objective  medical  factors. 
He said that, in his opinion,  Mrs F was capable of performing  the material  and substantial 
duties of her usual occupation  on a full-time  basis. 
Mrs F says that Dr S lied in his report,  and his conclusions were  based around that lie. 
The issue  is that in the report,  Dr S noted that Mrs F described turns  where  she 
experiences difficulty  in finding her words and perhaps right-sided motor and coordination 
symptoms. He said she exhibited one of these turns during the consultation, and 
medicated herself with some chocolate,  with her symptoms soon resolving after she did so. 
Given how quickly her symptoms resolved, he said physiologically, this excluded  the 
Ref: DRN24128352ingestion of sucrose as being linked to the cessation  of symptoms. He said it was therefore  
evident that a component of Mrs Fs symptoms were of a functional  and behavioural origin. 
Mrs F says before her examination she felt a full attack coming, so she took ibuprofen and 
sugar as she would normally to do prevent an attack occurring. However, during the 
examination she didnt feel right so topped  up her chocolate so she could continue and 
hopefully make sure an attack  wouldnt happen. 
Mrs Fs comments were  passed to Dr S. He responded  to say he didnt take the episode she 
exhibited during the examination as representative of a full blown episode. But the point he 
was making relates  to her rate of response  to sugar. He explained Mrs F began  to exhibit a 
tremor and began to apparently stumble over her words. He said she conveyed she was 
starting to have a turn  and ate some  chocolate. Within  around 20-30 seconds, her 
symptoms appeared  to resolve completely. Dr S said this indicated  that her response to the 
chocolate was not a physiological response  as she would not have absorbed any sugar in 
the time observed.
I think Dr S has adequately addressed  Mrs Fs concerns about  his findings after the IME. 
And Im satisfied that it was appropriate  for Aviva to still rely on his opinion  when reviewing  
the claim.  
Given that Dr S concluded Mrs F was able to carry out the material  and substantial duties of 
her occupation, I think Avivas decision to terminate  the claim was reasonable. I see it paid 
benefit for a further three months to help Mrs F with a phased  return  to work, which  I think  
was fair. 
I appreciate Mrs F strongly  disagrees with Dr Ss conclusions that she can return to work.  
However, she hasnt provided  medical evidence from a specialist which  contradicts Dr Ss 
opinion. Ive looked at the further letters shes provided from her consultant  neurologist, but 
these dont comment on Dr Ss findings, or say that from a medical  perspective, Mrs F 
couldnt work. 
Mrs F has provided  a letter from a neurology nurse  in July 2019. The nurse said that Mrs F is 
severely debilitated by her episodic  migraine and cant leave  the house without her husband.  
The nurse said the driving factor  of stress  and anxiety is continuing and its going to be very 
difficult to get Mrs Fs debilitating migraines under control, thus impacting her ability  to work. 
I appreciate what the nurse has said, however the symptoms described by the nurse were 
known to Dr S before he reached his opinion. Despite this, he still thought  she could work. 
Consequently, I dont think the evidence  from the nurse outweighs  Dr Ss opinion. 
Overall, and whilst I recognise my decision will greatly disappoint Mrs F, I think Avivas 
decision to terminate the claim was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN24128353my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2412835