K822xcomplaint
Mr Rs complain is about the compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  paid to settle his 
complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was taken out 
alongside a loan.
background
In 2001 Mr R took out a loan with PPI through BoS. The premium  for the PPI policy was 
added to the loan amount Mr R borrowed.  Mr R fell into arrears on the loan alathough  did 
make some small  regular payments but the debt was eventually  passed by BoS to a third 
party debt recovery company (Company A).
In 2017 Mr R complained  his PPI was mis-sold and BoS upheld this complaint and offered to 
pay Mr R compensation. When it processed the compensation payment BoS did so by 
crediting the loan account, to remove all the PPI from any balance. But it also made a 
payment of the full amount of compensation to Mr R without removing the debt he owed first. 
So £754.21  was still owed and BoS sent this debt to a new recovery  agent.
Mr R was unhappy that he had been told the debt was settled in full by the PPI payment and 
he had thought the amount he was paid by BoS directly was his to use as he wished.  What  
BoS and its agent said at the time of payment indicated  this. BoS acknowledged it had 
overpaid Mr R when  making the PPI compensation payment as it should have reduced this 
by the £754.21 still owing  for the debt. 
BoS offered  Mr R £50.00 for the trouble and upset caused by the wrong information he had 
been given by its recovery agent,  Company A. But BoS said the amount of the debt that had 
not been paid was still owed by Mr R.
Mr R was very unhappy with what BoS had done and also that he was now being  chased by 
a second debt recovery agent.  He believed the whole of his debt had been cleared  and felt 
BoS should honour that as it was what he had been told. He also said he spent  money in 
making calls and dealing  with BoS and the recovery agents. Mr R felt the £50.00 offered by 
BoS for the trouble and upset hed been  caused was not enough and it should be 
substantially more.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  on 25 March  2019. A copy  of that 
provisional decision is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. The full background 
and details of the complaint are set out in that provisional decision.
Mr R has responded to my provisional  decision indicating he agrees to accept my findings 
and outcome. 
BoS responded to confirm it had received the provisional decision and it requested further 
time to provide  a response. It was agreed BoS could  sent its response  by 1 May 2019. No 
comment, further contact  or response has been  made by BoS since. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20770282In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought what  BoS had done  when paying the 
compensation due to Mr R was unfair.  This was because of the mistakes it made in paying  
the full compensation amount to Mr R; not deducting  the amount of the debt outstanding;  
and the issues  that arose when Mr R was mis-informed about the debt being cleared.
 
I set out in full in my provisional  decision,  which forms part of this decision,  what I proposed 
to do. That was to direct BoS to clear  the £754.21  from Mr Rs account  and the account 
should be closed  as settled. His credit file should also be corrected to show the debt was 
cleared. I also said why I thought Mr R should get no additional compensation for any trouble 
and upset, other than the £50.00 that BoS had offered.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence  to dispute my provisional 
decision, I can see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc should  clear the £754.21 debt showing as 
outstanding on Mr Rs account and close the account as settled. It should also correct his 
credit file.
If Bank of Scotland plc has not already paid the £50.00  additional compensation it offered, 
this should be paid to Mr R. But no additional compensation more than this amount  is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20770283Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  paid to settle his complaint 
concerning a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr R took out a loan in 2001 with BoS and at the same time bought a PPI policy, the cost of which 
was added  to what he borrowed. Following an accident in 2003 Mr R was not able to return  to work 
and fell into arrears on the loan, owing  just over £7,000. Mr R did make  some small  regular payments 
to this but in 2017 the debt was passed by BoS to a third party debt recovery company (who  I shall 
refer to as Company A) and Mr R made payments of £40.00 per month.
In 2017 Mr R complained  his PPI was mis-sold and BoS upheld this complaint and offered to pay Mr 
R compensation of £4,666.05. When it processed this payment BoS did so by crediting the loan 
account first, to remove all the PPI from any balance  and also to create a record of the PPI payment, 
to show  it had been  removed  from the loan. This process resulted in the loan account showing as in 
credit.
Company A told Mr R the debt had been fully repaid, both by letter  and over the telephone. But it 
seems as well as adjusting the loan account, BoS also sent Mr R the payment  of £4,666.05 without 
removing all the debt he owed first. This resulted  in a balance still being owed  by Mr R of £754.21. 
BoS sent this new debt amount to another recovery agent who then contacted Mr R and he was told 
he still had an amount outstanding on his debt.
Mr R is unhappy that he was told the debt was settled  in full by the PPI payment and so he then 
thought the amount he was sent by BoS was his to use as he wished. BoS acknowledged it had 
overpaid Mr R when  making the PPI compensation  payment as it should  have reduced this by the 
amount still owing on the debt. 
It offered Mr R £50 for the trouble and upset caused by the wrong information he had been given  by 
its recovery agent, Company A. But BoS said the amount of the debt that had not been paid was still 
due to be paid by Mr R.
Mr R was very unhappy  with what BoS had done and the mis-information he had been given about 
his debt being  cleared,  only to be chased  by a second debt recovery agent  a few months later.  And 
he brought his complaint  to this service. He says he had believed the debt cleared and shouldnt be 
chased for it. Also in trying  to get correct information he says he spent money  in making  calls to BoS 
and the recovery agents. He isnt happy with the £50 offered by BoS for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused.
Our adjudicator said what BoS had done and offered for the trouble and upset was fair. Mr R didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint about the mis-sold  PPI was upheld by BoS so Im not considering  how the PPI came 
to be mis-sold. In this decision Im looking at what BoS did with the compensation  it offered to settle  
the complaint and how it handled Mr Rs complaint.
BoS offered £4,666.05  in compensation and Mr R hasnt disputed this amount is correct. He is 
unhappy with what BoS did when it paid the compensation. 
Ref: DRN20770284I have looked at how BoS has calculated  the compensation and it has included the premiums paid, 
any interest caused by the PPI and some interest for any time he may have been out of pocket.
In 2003 Mr R had an accident and made a claim  on his PPI, this claim amount has been deducted 
from the compensation due to Mr R which is fair. This claim paid the loan for 12 months but Mr R was 
still unable to return to work and he fell into arrears and defaulted on his loan. The account was 
passed to BoS recoveries department  in December 2004 and it seems Mr R made  some payments 
over a number of years.  When it was passed to the third party recovery agent, Company A, in 2017 
he owed £1,452.82.
When his complaint about  the PPI was upheld, Mr R was offered the compensation of £4,666.05 in a 
letter from BoS dated  19 February  2018.  This amount  was paid into his bank account  on 20 February  
2018. 
Mr R contacted Company  A on 26 February 2018. The records  provided by Company A indicate Mr R 
called as he wanted to know the balance still outstanding and he was told his debt was now clear. In 
fact the notes  say he was told it had been overpaid by £15.07  which BoS should refund  to him. 
By letter dated 27 February 2018 Company  A also told Mr R We refer to the above account  and your 
recent communications, and can now confirm  that this account is fully paid.
So as BoS had transferred the compensation amount to his bank account  on 20 February 2018 he 
reasonably assumed the amount hed received  was his to use as he wished.
But in June 2018 BoS wrote to Mr R to say it had transferred his debt of £754.21 to another  recovery 
agent. A letter  of the same  date was sent to Mr R from that other agent. Mr R made  a number  of 
phone calls to BoS, the new recovery  agent and also to Company A to find out what  had happened 
and to try to sort all this out. 
Company As notes show he was told again  on 12 July 2018 and on 24 July 2018 that there was no 
balance showing on the account  and the debt was cleared. This business  denied it was correct it had 
made an error as BoS had said. These notes then indicate  Company A received a notification from 
BoS on 3 September 2018 that the account was no longer with them.
BoS has admitted  a mistake  was made and Mr R shouldnt have been  told by its agent,  Company A, 
that the debt was cleared. It also should  have  removed the amount of the debt remaining  from the 
compensation before  paying the remainder to Mr R. But it didnt.
BoS wrote to Mr R in July 2018 saying it upheld his complaint about the mistaken  information  he had 
been given and it offered and paid into his bank  account  £50.00 for the trouble and upset this mistake 
may have caused.
So a mistake  was made and the amount  of £754.21 wasnt deducted from the compensation  that was 
paid to Mr R on 20 February 2018. But after this date Mr R was told several times by BoS agent his 
account was clear  and it wasnt until he was contacted in June 2018 it was stated he still owed a debt.
Mr R was continually told by BoS agent,  Company  A, that he owed nothing more.  But BoS says he 
still owes some of the debt. There  is a principle in law known as Estoppel that indicates, for example, 
if a creditor says a debt is cleared, then later tries to recover the debt, the creditor may be prevented 
from relying on their legal right to be repaid.
In this case it is clear Mr R was told on more  than one occasion between  February and July 2018 he 
no longer owed any part of the debt by BoS representative. And I cannot see that BoS took any steps 
to contact its representative until September 2018 about this. So Mr R was clearly told his debt was 
clear and I think it isnt fair, in all the circumstances, that BoS should  then be able to pursue  Mr R for 
payment of the debt of £754.21 which  is still outstanding as a result of BoS mistakes and actions.
Ref: DRN20770285I think  the fairest  approach, in line with the legal  principles, is that BoS should  no longer pursue  Mr R 
for the debt of £754.21, it should be removed from his account and the account closed. His credit file 
should also be corrected to show the debt is cleared.
I know Mr R wanted the debt cleared  as part of his complaint. But he is also seeking  compensation for 
the costs he incurred  in telephone  calls and also for all the upset  and stress this matter has caused 
him
I agree Mr R has made more phone calls than I would normally expect in pursuing a complaint and so 
has incurred some  costs.  And I do not doubt  this matter has caused his a great deal of upset. But I 
think the payment  already  made  by BoS of £50.00 would cover the extra costs Mr R did have in 
pursuing this matter.
I have considered carefully if Mr R should receive an additional payment for trouble  and upset. But as 
I am intending to tell BoS to clear the £754.21 from his account, which is an amount he technically  did 
have and didnt repay, then I think the benefit this gives is fair and Im not intending to award any 
additional amounts.
I think  this is the fairest approach and outcome to this complaint for both parties.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, Im currently not 
satisfied that the offer Bank of Scotland plc has made is fair. Unless I see any further evidence to 
persuade me differently, Im intending to direct Bank of Scotland plc to clear the amount of £754.21 
which is still owed by Mr R on his loan account.
I am satisfied  that the £50.00 additional payment made to Mr R is fair for the trouble and upset 
caused to him and Im not intending to tell Bank of Scotland plc to pay any more for this.
This is subject to any further information that is provided  by either  party  by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2077028