K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has declined is claim made on his motor 
insurance policy following  the theft of his van.
background
Mr C parked his van on a private driveway and left the keys in the ignition whilst  he went  
inside the house. The van was then stolen and UKI declined  the claim because  of the keys 
in car exclusion in his policy.  Mr C thought this was unfair. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
policys exclusion of cover if the keys were  left in the unattended  car was very clear.  
Mr C replied that hed only left the van for a short time. He explained the financial impact  the 
loss had on him and his family. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs upset at UKIs decision. I can see that the theft of his new van has 
had a significant financial effect  on him. I can appreciate that he feels  unfairly treated. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Like the investigator, I think Mr Cs policy has a clear  exclusion of cover when, amongst 
other things,  the keys are left in the car. This is set out in the policys  Frequently Asked 
Questions on page one of the policy booklet and explained  further in the policy terms and 
conditions. 
This is a significant exclusion and I think  UKI reasonably drew Mr Cs attention to it in his 
policy documents. I dont  think  the term is unusual or unfair.  And so I think  its fair for UKI to 
rely upon it to decline a claim.
Our approach is that its fair for the insurer to apply this term if the vehicle is left unattended  
and the driver isnt in a position to deter a potential thief. 
Mr C has explained that he stepped  away from the van into the house, albeit only for a short 
time, no more than five minutes. He said he forgot to remove  the keys from the van. So I 
think he left the van unattended with the keys in the ignition. And I dont think  he was in a 
position to deter a potential thief. 
So I cant say that UKI has acted  unfairly  in declining Mr Cs claim. The exclusion in Mr Cs 
policy is clear  that theft wont be covered if the keys are left in the car and its unattended.  
Ref: DRN21751222my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2175122