K821x#15complaint
Ms E says Provident Personal Credit  Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She says that if the 
correct checks had been made then Provident wouldnt have approved  the loans.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. Provident disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Es complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings, are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
Provident, and Ms E, confirmed that they had received  my provisional  decision. And no one 
had anything to add after theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provident and Ms E didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So 
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  before, for the same  reasons.
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms E paid on loans 5 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from 5 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  5 to 13 should be removed from Ms Es 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident must 
give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Ms Es complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23448732an extract  from my provisional decision
This complaint is about  13 home  credit loans  Provident provided to Ms E between November 2010 
and March  2016. Ms Es lending history is as follows:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowed 
(£)term weeks
1 19/11/2010 300 52
2 17/06/2011 500 50
3 11/11/2011 250 50
4 28/10/2011 400 61
5 30/07/2012 1100 81
6 28/12/2012 300 52
7 19/04/2013 150 52
8 09/08/2013 750 52
9 21/02/2014 1200 110
10 15/01/2015 300 52
11 09/06/2015 1500 110
12 08/09/2015 800 63
13 01/03/2016 700 84
From the information Provident  has provided  I can see that there was a break in the lending between 
loans 4 and 5 of about 4 weeks.  But there were no other gaps.  And Ms E, at times,  took new loans  to 
repay the balance she had on existing  loans. And when she did this the overall  amount she owed 
increased. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Es complaint. He thought the loans 12 and 13 shouldnt  have been given. 
Provident disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about short term and high cost credit - including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  
practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms E could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should fairly  and reasonably have done more  
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN23448733the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish  whether  
Ms E could  sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments . And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Es complaint.
Provident didnt think that the financial Ombudsman Service should  look at loans 1 to 4 as it said that 
Ms E had brought them outside of our time limits.  After  some correspondence Ms E withdrew  her 
complaint about these  loans. So I havent looked at loans  1 to 4 as they are no longer part of this 
dispute. 
And I havent recreated individual,  proportionate affordability checks  for loans 5 to 13 because  I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Providents lending history with 
Ms E, with a view to seeing  if there was a point at which  Provident should  reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Provident should have realised  that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Es case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say 
this because:
By the time Ms E took loan 5 shed had a lending relationship with Provident for around 20 
months. And from loan 5 onwards Ms E was provided  with new loans without a break  from the 
previous ones. 
The amounts Ms E was borrowing were  generally  increasing. And loan 5 was for a much 
larger amount than the previous borrowing. And it looks like some of the new loans were  to 
replace outstanding loans.
So Provident ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Ms E was having to 
borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying her previous loans  were leaving in her finances and 
that Ms Es indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
And this seems to have been borne out by the outstanding balance amounts which  are shown 
on Providents payment  history. Overall, this generally increases  over time until the end of the 
lending relationship. 
Ms E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Provident.  Loan 13 was taken 
out over five years after Ms Es first. I can see that towards the end of the lending  Ms E owed 
between three to four thousand pounds to Provident at times. So Ms E had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Provident over an extended period.
Ref: DRN23448734I think  that Ms E lost out because Provident continued  to provide borrowing  from loan four onwards  
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Es indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time.
the number of loans, and the time she was indebted, was likely to have had negative  
implications on Ms Es ability  to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im planning to uphold Ms Es complaint  about loans 5 to 13 and Provident should  put things right.
Ref: DRN2344873