K821x#15complaint
Miss B complained about the way Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd (Bastion)  dealt with a claim she 
made on her home emergency policy.
All references to Bastion include its agents. 
background
Miss B made a claim on her policy with Bastion after she got an error message on her boiler 
and stopped having heating and hot water. The claim was made on Christmas  Eve and 
Bastion attended  on 4 January. 
Miss B said an engineer  attended her property and told her the boiler needed a new heat 
exchanger. She asked  Bastion to provide one under her policy which  she said covers parts 
as well as labour up to £500 but Bastion refused. Bastion said this was because  the policy 
only covers emergencies and temporary fixes.  It said Miss Bs situation wasnt  an 
emergency and it had done  a temporary  fix for her without charge. 
Miss B complained but as Bastion  didnt  change its view she complained  to us. She said she 
bought the policy in good faith and didnt understand why it hasnt paid out. She said she 
wanted a letter from Bastion to explain what she is and isnt covered for as she never 
received anything like this when she took the policy out. She was also unhappy about the 
delay in her claim being processed and she also wanted a reimbursement of the £289 she 
paid privately for a heat exchanger. 
Bastion issued its final response  after the complaint was referred to us. It reiterated what it 
had already told Miss B about  the issue not being an emergency and that the policy was only 
there to provide  a temporary fix.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought Miss Bs 
situation was an emergency as she had no heating or hot water and also as this happened 
in winter time. He also thought Bastion should cover  the cost of the heat exchanger as the 
policy covers parts,  labour and call outs up to £500.  He said Bastion had confirmed the call 
out cost was £86 so the total cost was within the policy limit. He also said Bastion should pay 
Miss B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Bastion didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Among other things it said this 
wasnt an emergency and that the heat exchanger was a maintenance part which would 
make this a permanent rather than a temporary fix (which is what the policy  covers). 
Before I issued my final decision our investigator  went back  to Bastion and made the 
following points:
Even if we didnt think having no heating  or hot water in winter  would pose  a risk to 
Miss B; we still thought this would make  her house unsafe and it is arguable it would 
pose a risk of further damage to her property for example if her pipes  were  to freeze.
Bastion said the system needing  a power  flush or re pressurising. We couldnt  see that 
these points were raised with Miss B at the time or by an engineer  who is an expert on 
the subject. And Bastion acknowledged  receiving the maintenance certificate that Miss B 
had sent over despite now saying the system wasnt properly maintained. We thought  it 
was too late for Bastion to raise these issues now. And as the heat exchanger seemed to 
Ref: DRN21676402resolve the issue it seems  this was the cause  of the breakdown  and not the new issues  
Bastion raised.  
The policy says an engineer will attend  to carry out a repair once  the replacement  parts  
arrive. This didnt happen in this case.  
Bastion said there would be a second  call out charge. We didnt think  there  would be a 
need for this because  it didnt seem Miss B was provided with any assistance in the first 
appointment.
We asked if there is a policy excess, what it is and where  in the policy schedule it is 
referred to. We also said if its not stated  clearly we dont  think  it would be fair to charge 
it. 
We allowed  Bastion  a week to respond  to the above if it wished to do so. It didnt, so I think I 
can now proceed with my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
was this an emergency?
Miss Bs policy includes cover for emergencies occurring at the home.  Claims cover  call out, 
labour and parts to alleviate an immediate emergency up to a £500 limit. It defines an 
emergency as:
 a sudden  and unexpected event, which is reported to us within 24 hours of first noticing 
the fault, and which  if not dealt with, would, in the reasonable opinion of the helpline:
 render  the home unsafe or insecure;  or
 damage or cause further damage  to the home; or
 cause  personal risk to You.
From what  Ive seen the loss of hot water  and heating was sudden and unexpected and was 
reported by Miss B within  24 hours  of her first noticing it. So she has fulfilled the terms of the 
policy in that respect.
Bastion told us this wasnt an emergency  because the weather at the time was five to eight 
degrees Celsius and sunny. So it didnt think Miss B was in any risk. As our investigator said 
the temperature on the day of the breakdown dropped to as low as -3- using the data that 
Bastion provided.  I think having no heating or hot water in those  temperatures  would pose a 
risk to Miss B. But even if I didnt, I dont think it is safe to live in a home which  has no 
heating or hot water  in the middle  of winter.  And it is arguable  that there might also be a risk 
of further damage  to the home from this, for example with pipes freezing due to the lack of 
heating or hot water.  For these  reasons I think this was an emergency.
is this claim excluded under the policy?
In response to our investigators view Bastion said the policy excludes airlocks and also that 
the error  message Miss B got was related to a maintenance issue. It said it seems the 
system needed a power flush and also to be re pressurised. It also said that all this is part of 
the servicing process and that though Miss B had a safety inspection  form this wasnt  a 
servicing certificate.
From what  Ive seen the points that Bastion raised  above werent raised  with Miss B at the 
time. In fact when Miss B reported the claim Bastions agent acknowledged receiving a 
Ref: DRN21676403maintenance certificate that Miss B had sent over. So I dont think  its fair and I think its too 
late for Bastion  to now say Miss B failed to provide this.
Also Im not aware that the comments about the power flush  or the maintenance are 
comments made by Bastions engineer,  who is an expert in the field and also the person 
who inspected the boiler. And as it seems the heat exchanger did resolve the issue  with the 
boiler, on balance,  I dont think the issues that Bastion is raising now were  the causes of the 
boiler breakdown.
The policy says an engineer will attend  to carry out the repair once the replacement parts 
arrive. If they cant get the replacement part they will only carry out a temporary repair  to 
make the emergency  safe. In this case it doesnt  appear that there  was an issue  with the 
replacement part and this is another reason  why I think Bastion shouldve agreed to the 
second appointment and shouldve paid for the heat exchanger to be replaced.
second call out charge
Bastion also said there would be a second call out charge so the calculations made by our 
investigator (£86 for the call out plus £289  for the heat exchanger)  were wrong. I dont think  I 
agree that it would be necessary to charge for a second call out. 
The policy says Bastion will assist  its policyholder  to restore heating  and/or hot water. The 
policy defines assistance as:
the work undertaken by the engineer during a call out to the Home to complete a 
temporary repair to limit or prevent damage or, if at similar expense, the cost of completing  a 
permanent repair, in respect of the cover provided.
Bastion says the engineer  did a temporary  repair but Miss B said she was still without 
heating or hot water  so I dont think that was the case. For this reason, on balance, I dont 
think any assistance was provided during the first appointment so I dont think  it was fair that 
a call out was charged  and, in any case,  it wouldnt have been  fair to charge a second one in 
these circumstances.  
Furthermore, I havent seen anything  in the policy to say there  will be a second call out fee. 
And as the engineer who did the work  privately didnt charge one I dont think  it wouldve 
been fair for Bastion to charge one either.
other issues
As our investigator said I think Bastion  has caused  Miss B unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience not least because of the time it took to attend  her property in an emergency 
but also in refusing to repair her boiler- unfairly. I think  it should pay her £100 compensation 
for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint.  Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd must:
Pay Miss B the cost of the replacement heat exchanger (£289) plus 8% simple  interest  
per year (as this in addition to the £86 call out fee is below  the £500  policy  limit). The 
interest is payable from the day she paid for the heat exchanger  to the day Bastion 
reimburses her. As Bastion hasnt clarified whether an excess applies and as its not 
clear from the policy documents I dont think Bastion should  charge one. 
Ref: DRN21676404 Pay Miss B £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused  her.
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should  tell Miss B how much  its taken off. It should also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2167640