K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs C think HSBC UK Bank Plc should  have done  more to help prevent Mr S 
falling victim to a scam which  resulted in him withdrawing £57,000 in cash via their joint 
current account.
background
Mr S tells us that, in mid-December 2017,  he met two, previously-unknown, men on the 
street when he was walking home  after running  an errand. Those men persuaded him to 
give them  a total of £65,000  cash in what turned  out to be a scam involving the purchase of 
a supposedly  winning  lottery ticket.  £57,000 of the cash  was withdrawn through  two 
branches of HSBC over two working  days. The remaining £9,000  was withdrawn from three  
other banks,  all of which Mr S visited on the first day. Mr S has not yet complained to the 
other banks  about  those  withdrawals.
Mr S and Mrs Cs daughter raised  a complaint on their behalf with HSBC. She said being 
victim to this fraud made Mr S lose all confidence, to the extent that hes been  reluctant to 
leave the house since it happened. Hes also worried about the financial impact  given  hes a 
pensioner, with limited  income. Mr Ss daughter says HSBC should have realised the 
withdrawals were out of character and the overall  circumstances  should  have raised  
suspicions such that the bank should have either  prevented,  or postponed, the withdrawals. 
HSBC said its branch staff didnt  do anything wrong when they allowed  the withdrawals to 
take place. So the bank  refused to refund  any of the money.
Mr S, Mrs C and their daughter  werent happy with the banks response  they said the 
branch staff had lied about what went on  and asked us to look into the complaint. Our 
investigator thought  HSBC couldve  done  more to protect Mr S from being scammed and 
recommended it refund  the entire £57,000.
Last month,  after gathering additional  information  from all parties  to the complaint, I issued a 
provisional decision which I explained  why I was minded  to uphold the complaint in part. I 
included significant  detail about how the scam  seemed  to have unfolded  as well as what  the 
parties had said. I wont repeat all of that here but I concluded, in summary, that:
There was no dispute that Mr S had authorised all the withdrawals.  And the starting 
position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments  and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the customers account. But I also took into account the 
law, regulators  rules and guidance,  relevant codes  of practice and what I consider to 
have been good  industry practice at the time in order to decide  whether HSBC acted 
fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr S when he made the withdrawals,  or whether 
it should have  done more. 
There was no dispute that the cashier who processed Mr Ss first cash withdrawal asked  
him what he wanted the money for, but the parties didnt  agree whether the cashier went 
any further than that. I couldnt be sure what was discussed. But even if the cashier did 
what it claimed, I still didnt think the bank  had adequately met its obligations. I said this 
having regard  to a number of factors including: the fact individuals who share Mr Ss 
circumstances are disproportionately targeted by fraudsters and the bank shouldve 
taken into account there  was a greater risk of him becoming the victim of scam  and/or at 
risk of financial  harm; Mr S may have appeared calm throughout the transaction, but he 
Ref: DRN24781342could equally have  been entirely under the fraudsters  spell and simply doing what  he 
was told; it was unusual for Mr S to make such a large cash  withdrawal  which  left very 
little in his accounts  and his insistence  on doing so, despite  the banks suggestions, 
might have suggested he was under duress  and/or giving  a cover story;  Mr S may have 
given a plausible reason  for the withdrawal but I thought the bank should have asked him 
more questions about this and possibly  let their assumptions about how the local 
community operates cloud their judgment  when deciding whether that was the most 
likely explanation in Mr Ss case;  the bank didnt appear to have followed its usual 
process for large cash withdrawals and made no record  of their discussions with Mr S. 
There was no dispute that when Mr S asked to make the second  withdrawal, at a 
different branch of HSBC and one which he did not usually frequent,  the bank took 
additional steps to verify the validity of the withdrawal. This included  the branch manager 
taking him into a private room  to discuss the withdrawal.  But I still didnt think  the bank 
had done enough,  given the particular circumstances of this complaint which included: 
the bank seemed to have identified he was an at risk customer and had concerns about 
the answers he was giving; the lack of information held relating to the previous 
withdrawal; the other activity on the Mr Ss account; the fact this was the second large 
cash withdrawal being made within a relatively short space  of time and at different 
branches.
While  I felt the bank  was at fault in this case, I didnt think  it should  refund the entire  sum 
Mr S and Mrs C had lost. I thought Mr S was at fault to some extent too. I said that 
because I had some concerns about how readily he fell for the scam having been  
approached, out of the blue, by a couple of strangers. He willingly handed over a 
considerable amount of money to the fraudsters based on relatively limited evidence to 
support the claims they were making  about the lottery win. Mr S had said his faith was 
one of things that had motivated him to and help the fraudsters. But I couldnt  fairly 
ignore that he was also keen to gain from the transactions.  He hadnt said the situation  
frightened him such that he felt forced to act in the way he did. And he was willing to 
mislead the bank   by giving a false reason for the withdrawals  in order to get the 
money he needed to proceed with the transaction and from which he expected to draw a 
considerable monetary benefit. I thought, in those circumstances, it wouldve been more  
difficult for the bank  to accurately assess whether  or not he was at risk of financial harm 
so that it could easily unravel the scam and/or or break  the spell which  Mr S was acting 
under. I thought,  in all the circumstances, it was fair to instruct  HSBC  to refund 50% of 
the withdrawals Mr S had made.
The investigator had recommended  that HSBC pay £200 compensation in recognition  of 
any trouble or upset  caused to Mr S while awaiting the outcome of the banks  
investigations and given the lack of updates. HSBC hadnt commented  specifically  in 
response to this recommendation and I saw no reason not to award this sum given that 
at least some of the anxiety and distress Mr S and Mrs C suffered mightve  been  avoided 
if HSBC had more  readily  met its obligations.
In response to my provisional decision HSBC said it didnt agree with everything  Id said, but 
agreed to pay my proposed award as a gesture of goodwill.
Ref: DRN24781343Mr S and Mrs Cs daughter replied on their behalf. She said how disappointed they all are 
that I didnt  agree with the investigators recommendation to return  all the money  they lost. 
They shared  links to four local news  articles from 2011, 2012  and 2017  which  showed  other  
individuals had fallen  victim to the same scam. And they said,  in summary, that:
Mr S is elderly, religiously devout  and not a highly  educated  man  this made it easy for 
the fraudsters to prey on him. He was not complicit in what was a very sophisticated  
scam and its caused him additional  distress  to hear that HSBC  has suggested this. They 
would like to see what evidence HSBC  to support  this suggestion.
Mr S accepts  his judgment  may have been  clouded somewhat by the prospect of making  
a financial gain.  But his actions were fundamentally fuelled by his religious and moral 
ethics  he thought he was helping someone  who was in need. He feels  deep shame 
and remorse about having been duped and for the resulting financial instability his 
actions have caused him and his family. This has significantly  affected  his mental 
wellbeing.
Mr S tried to make some large withdrawals  from other banks using the same reasoning 
he gave to HSBC.  The other banks refused but HSBC allowed  the withdrawals. In doing  
so, HSBC failed  in its responsibility  to protect  and safeguard them  and theyre worried 
the bank may fail to do the same  for other customers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and 
Mrs C, Ive reached the same conclusions  as set out in my provisional  decision and 
summarised above.
I wont repeat what Ive said before but, for clarity, I will say that:
I dont agree with HSBCs suggestion  that Mr S was complicit  in this fraud and there is 
no evidence that I think should be shared with Mr S and Mrs C in relation to this.
I agree  with Mr S and Mrs C that HSBC ought to have done  more to protect them. And I 
think the responsibility it owes all its customers is clear  as set out in the law, regulators  
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice. I did already 
realise that some other banks had refused  Mr Ss requests to withdraw  money entirely 
and/or had limited  the amount it permitted to be withdrawn without pre-ordering. And I 
noted in my provisional decision, in relation to the second withdrawal that The £30,000 
had been transferred  on the Friday from a building society that had a branch in Mr Ss 
own town. Yet HSBC  doesnt seem to have questioned, for example, why he didnt 
withdraw the money direct rather than transferring it to HSBC  and withdrawing it the 
following working day.   My role is to consider whether HSBC have acted appropriately 
given the circumstances of this particular  complaint and I must limit my comments and 
instructions accordingly. Mr S hasnt brought complaints to us about  the other banks that 
allowed him to withdraw money. So my understanding about what  went  on during those 
interactions is limited to what Mr S has told us. But what  I would say is that despite  
some other banks and/or building societies refusing  or limiting withdrawals he still went 
Ref: DRN24781344ahead and moved money around in order to withdraw the cash he needed  via HSBC. I 
have taken all of this into account when making my decision.
Im grateful to Mr S for being  so candid about  his circumstances before and after the 
scam, including how falling victim has affected  him personally, emotionally and 
financially. But I also think all of that was clear before I made  my provisional decision,  so 
whats been said more  recently  hasnt changed my opinion. For the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision and summarised  above, I think  its fair to instruct HSBC to refund 
only 50% of the withdrawals.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
refund  £28,000.
for ease  of calculation, pay an amount equal to the interest £28,000 would have been 
earned between  15 December 2017  and the date of my final decision if it had all been 
held in Mr Ss HSBC savings account.
pay an additional £200 compensation. 
If Mr S and Ms C accept  my final decision then HSBC must make settlement  as set out 
above within 28 days of the date on which they accept. If it pays  later than this it must  also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
any of the above interest calculations then it should tell Mr S and Mrs C how much  its taken 
off. It should  also give Mr S and Mrs C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2021.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2478134