K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms S bought the policy  in 2003 some time after taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
 Ms S says she didnt  ask for the PPI, and she wasnt  told she could buy it elsewhere. 
The PPI was sold over the phone some  time after Ms S took out her store card.  I cant  
be sure what was discussed between Ms S and the sales  person. But from what we 
know about FICLs phone sales  at the time, I think its likely that FICL wouldve given 
Ms S a choice  about whether or not to take the cover   although given the amount  of 
time thats passed, I can understand  why Ms S may no longer remember this.
So without anything  else to support  what Ms S has told me I havent  been able to 
safely conclude that FICL  didnt make her aware that the policy  was optional.   
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer sick pay she was entitled  to, 
or savings she couldve  used  to cover  her payments. It was for Ms S to decide  whether 
or not the PPI would be useful for her.   
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Ms S would have been affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  her buying  it.
Ref: DRN27631392my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2763139