K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited lent her money irresponsibly 
because they failed to carry out proper affordability  checks before the loans  were  agreed.  
background
Miss R took out 5 loan agreements with Provident  as follows:
Loan agreement  7 August 2014  for £500. Repayments of £25 over 32 weeks.
Loan agreement  28 November 2014  for £1000. Repayments of £30 over 63 weeks.
Loan agreement  23 March 2015 for £1000. Repayments of £24 over 84 weeks.
Loan agreement  16 October 2015 for £1200. Repayments of £36 over 63 weeks
Loan agreement  5 February 2016 for £1400.  Repayments of £33.60 over 84 weeks
Miss R says that the loans were unaffordable  and left her in a position where she had to take 
out top up loans to make the repayments.  She doesnt feel that Provident carried  out 
sufficient checks to make sure she could afford the loan repayments.
When Miss R complained to Provident  it said that the checks it had carried  out showed that 
she had sufficient disposable income to afford  the repayments. It said that Miss R had 
managed her accounts well until she told them she had lost her job in April 2016.
Miss R wasnt  happy with Providents  response  so she complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the case  and felt that before approving Miss Rs loan 
applications Provident had conducted  reasonable and proportionate investigations into her 
financial situation. The investigator felt that the checks  carried out by Provident were  
adequate.
Miss R didnt agree. She said that the Provident  agent had told her what  to put down as her 
outgoings in order  to get the loans. She said that Provident had never confirmed her 
outgoings with her bank or with her credit  card provider. Miss R said that if she had been  
able to afford the loan repayments she wouldnt have taken out top up loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit, lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what 
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided.
When Miss R applied  for the loans she provided  information about her income and outgoings 
to Provident. Provident  looked at this information in order to decide  whether Miss R had 
sufficient disposable  income to afford the loan repayments. Miss R has signed customer 
details forms for each loan confirming that the information she has provided to Provident is a 
true reflection of her financial  circumstances. Provident is entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Miss R about her income  and outgoings  and having  reviewed  this information I 
Ref: DRN24436202think the information provided by Miss R suggested  that the loan repayments were  
affordable. 
Provident carried out a credit  check as part of its checks  before it approved  the loans. The 
credit checks showed that Miss R had several  defaults. However,  all of these defaults were 
historic and, when taken into consideration with the other available  information, werent a 
reason for Provident not to approve the loans.
Provident also reviewed  Miss Rs repayment  history on other  credit  agreements she had with 
Provident. These showed that, although  there  were some missed payments, Miss Rs loan 
accounts had generally been  well managed with repayments made on time.
Ive taken all of the information which was available to Provident  at the time when the loans 
were approved into account.  Based  on this, I dont think theres any information  to suggest 
that the loans  werent affordable or that further  enquiries should have been made. 
On balance and for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied  that Provident  carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before it approved the loans. Im also satisfied that 
these checks showed the loans were  affordable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2443620