K820x#14complaint
Mrs F feels that Santander UK Plc has treated her unfairly in relation purchases on her card 
for train journeys and accommodation  abroad.
background
Mrs F purchased connecting train tickets for her and her friend to go to a European  city. She 
used her Santander credit card to pay for this single transaction  to buy these connecting 
train tickets for her and her friend. Some of these tickets were  individually  priced and others  
were sold as pairs. Mrs F also paid for hotel accommodation on her card in her destination 
city.
Mrs F and her friend  travelled the first part of the journey but when they went  to get on their 
connecting train journey,  they discovered that their journey had been cancelled  due to an 
industrial strike in that country. So they returned  home. Mrs F tried to get her money back  
from the train company  but was unsuccessful.
So she complained to Santander. Santander  paid the disputed  amount back  into her account 
whilst it investigated. It also wrote to her saying a section  75 claim was unsuccessful  
because in the contract with the train company that Mrs F agreed when buying the tickets it 
has a force majeure  clause in which transport  strikes  are explicitly  named  as something 
outside of its control and thus extinguishes  the train companys obligations there.  But 
Santander did raise  a chargeback dispute. The train company refuted the chargeback.  So 
Santander said it sent a letter to Mrs F asking her to respond if she wanted to continue with 
the chargeback  process. 
Mrs F said she didnt  get this letter. Later, when she saw the transaction re-debit her 
account, she contacted Santander and was eventually provided with a copy of the letter 
Santander said it sent. And by this time Mrs F was outside the time limits  for the chargeback 
process. So she complained to Santander.
Santander felt it hadnt done  anything wrong regarding Mrs Fs train journey but said it could 
have dealt with her better. So it paid her £50. Mrs F felt this wasnt  fair. So she complained 
here.
The investigator said that section 75 didnt provide cover in the case of the train tickets 
because they were below the £100  financial limit which the legislation  specifically stipulates. 
The investigator also didnt feel that Santander had done anything  wrong  with regard to the 
chargeback for the tickets. Also the investigator felt that although Santander hadnt 
completed the chargeback process  for the hotel accommodation as the accommodation had 
been available the chargeback was likely to be unsuccessful. Thus Mrs F hadnt lost out 
because of Santander. Mrs F doesnt agree.  So, this complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two possible avenues for this complaint  to follow,  namely a Section 75 claim under 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 and other relevant legislation  or via the credit card 
Ref: DRN24849502chargeback process  which is under the chargeback  scheme rules administered  by the card 
scheme provider (not Santander).
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mrs F has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against a supplier of goods or services,  she can also bring that claim against 
Santander provided certain  conditions are met. One of those conditions is with regard to 
financial limits. The legislation states  section 75 doesnt apply where the claim relates to 
any single  item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more  
than £30,000 .
I have considered the invoice Mrs F received. Although Mrs F paid one single amount for all 
the tickets (over £700), the invoice  shows that the tickets  are priced according to the 
particular connecting  train journeys. Some are individually  priced (one way) and some are 
priced as a pair (one way). And some  of these journeys are in Mrs Fs name and the paired  
tickets are in Mrs Fs friends name.  Each journey is individually itemised. Having considered  
these journeys and the attributable cost to each person it is clear that not one of the 
individual tickets  for one person costs over £100. And accordingly section 75 doesnt apply. 
And as such Santander  isnt liable for Mrs Fs losses  under section 75 for the lost train 
journeys.
The chargeback process  is administered by the scheme provider (not Santander)  and 
provides a process for banks to recover funds for its account holders  in certain situations. 
Broadly speaking banks  should decide whether  to make  a chargeback  or not. But wed 
generally consider  it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted where  there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. If they do, then they must do so fairly. The merchant then 
receives that chargeback request and may agree  to refund the payment  or may contest the 
chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Santander here) should consider this and then if it 
still feels the chargeback  is warranted then it can take the chargeback to the scheme  
provider.
In this case Santander has raised the chargeback and the train company responded with 
reasons as to why it was contesting the chargeback. On getting the train companys rebuttal 
it wrote  to Mrs F about this and asking her for her position. In this letter it said that if it didnt 
hear from her then it would take that to mean  it shouldnt carry on with the matter.
Mrs F says she never got this letter. But Santander has provided  a copy  of it. And I can see 
when it was sent and that it was correctly addressed to Mrs F at her address.  Considering  
everything Im satisfied Santander  sent this letter. And as such  I dont think  it did anything 
wrong here or when it didnt take the matter  forward.
Mrs F thought that something was amiss when the transaction  reappeared on her account. 
And she spoke to Santander at that time. But Santander explained she was now outside the 
time limits in the chargeback scheme  rules. So it couldnt take the matter forward. Having 
considered the scheme rules and the timings of what happened  here I dont think Santander  
has done anything  wrong regarding the chargeback for the train tickets.
Ive also considered Santanders  position  regarding the payment towards  accommodation. 
Ive seen no evidence  that the hotel company didnt make available  the accommodation 
required of it. It was simply  a matter of Mrs F didnt make alternate arrangements to get to 
the accommodation for understandable  reasons. But these werent the fault of the hotel 
company or Santander. And had Santander  raised a chargeback or considered it under 
section 75 I dont think either would have been  successful. I think  the hotel company would 
Ref: DRN24849503have shown it provided the accommodation  and would have refused any chargeback.  And 
as I think it likely that the hotel company could show it would have fulfilled what  was agreed  
then I dont think Santander would have had to do any more here either.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Mrs F has said. I appreciate how Mrs F feels  about  
the whole  situation. However,  I dont think what Santander has done with regard to the 
Section 75 or the chargeback for either the train tickets or the hotel accommodation has 
meant that Mrs F has been treated unfairly.  So this complaint  doesnt  succeed.
my final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold  this complaint about Santander Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2484950