K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs W. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996 and which  covered  a store  credit  
account that started just over a year earlier. The card account  was sold in the store  and the 
PPI policy  was sold by phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs W has said,  but Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. This is 
because:
 Mrs W has said she wasnt  aware of the PPI being added.  The evidence is that the PPI 
was sold by phone some time after the account started.  There  is no recording available 
of that call  which  isnt surprising as this happened  about  22 years  ago. And, given 
the length of time that has passed, I also cant be sure how well Mrs W will have 
remembered the detail  of what happened. But I think shed have understood that 
declining the PPI wouldnt affect  her ability to have the credit account,  given the gap 
before the PPI was sold. So its likely  shed  have  known at the time that she had a 
choice about PPI. 
Overall, without  stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that FICL did 
something wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account.  
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Ws individual needs. This means it didnt  have  to check  if the PPI fitted  her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs W to decide whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs W clear  and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  I cant be sure 
how well the adviser explained the policy on the phone.  So Ive thought about whether 
better information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mrs Ws circumstances at 
the time, even  if shed  been given all the necessary information, I dont think  its likely  
to have made a difference to her decision.  (This is assuming she was given a choice  
which I accept she says she doesnt remember happening.)  I say this because  its fairly 
likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted 
(and shes said she wasnt guaranteed  sick pay anyway).  And it would have been in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many  
Ref: DRN21131052alternative means to definitely rely on, to pay her living expenses  and credit account for 
long, if she lost her income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve  for 
longer. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially  useful. Also it doesnt look 
like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2113105