K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained that Emg Anglia Ltd (Emg) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a loan when he bought a car.
background
Mr B took out a loan through Emg to buy a car in October 2005 and at the same time bought  
a PPI policy. The cost of the policy  was added to the amount of the loan Mr B was 
borrowing, so he paid interest on this extra loan amount. 
Mr B now says he was mis-sold the PPI. He says he was advised  by Emg to take it out to 
give him a better chance of getting  the loan. 
Emg doesnt agree the policy was mis-sold as it says it gave Mr B information about the 
policy and it was suitable for his circumstances. And he agreed to take it out.
When Mr B brought his complaint  to this service our adjudicator said they thought the policy  
didnt meet Mr Bs needs as the costs of the policy, when  set against the benefits Mr B 
couldve claimed for unemployment,  didnt make it good value for him.
Emg asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint  as it didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018 explaining why I 
disagreed with our adjudicators opinion and I thought the PPI hadnt been mis-sold  by Emg. 
Mr B has responded indicating he still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold. But he hasnt provided  
any new evidence to support his position.
Emg has not provided any response.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint explaining in some detail why I had reached 
my conclusions. I had looked  at all the evidence available  to consider if there was any 
reasons why the PPI may have been mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN29022332In summary  in my provisional decision I said:-
The parties agreed this was an advised sale as Emg recommended  Mr B should take 
out the policy. 
Emg had no records of the sale but the lender had provided  copies  of the credit 
agreement and the demands  and needs  statement, both signed  by Mr B and Emg. 
Both parties have  been provided with copies of these records.
Based  on the content of these documents I was satisfied  discussion about the PPI 
must have taken place. The documents indicate Mr B should have known he had a 
choice about taking out the PPI and he agreed  to take it. 
Mr Bs circumstances were such that he was eligible for the PPI and any benefits 
under the policy  would have been  paid in addition to any other income,  savings or 
work benefits Mr B had, if a claim was made.
I found the recommendation made by Emg was suitable taking account of all Mr Bs 
circumstances.
The documents had a full breakdown of the costs of the PPI so Mr B was made  fully 
aware of the costs  of the policy.
It may not have  been made  fully clear that the unemployment cover was restricted  to 
a maximum claim  of 12 monthly repayments throughout the whole five year term of 
the loan. But the amount that would have been paid out for such  a claim would have 
been more than Mr B paid for the policy. And the policy also provided additional 
sickness and life cover.  So I didnt think the policy was poor value for money  on a 
cost versus benefits basis. 
Also there were  restrictive cancellation  terms meaning a fully proportionate refund for 
the policy would not be given if it was cancelled early. But I had seen nothing to show  
at the time of sale Mr B thought the loan and policy  would not run to the full term.
I thought it was possible there were shortcomings in the information  provided to Mr B 
but he wasnt disadvantaged by any of the restrictions of the policy. And if he had 
been fully informed about the restrictions, I didnt think  he would at the time have 
made a different decision.
So I wasnt satisfied the PPI had been mis-sold  and I said I wasnt  intending to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr B has responded to my provisional  decision  indicating both he and his wife were  
employed at the time of sale so didnt  need the PPI. Also he was advised to take out the 
policy to help him get the loan.
The points Mr B has made are no different and do not add anything  to what  he had already 
told us. I said in my provisional decision I didnt  know exactly what was said at the meeting 
when this PPI was sold and I have to base my decision on the evidence I have available. 
I have seen nothing  in the documents  to show the PPI was presented as a condition  of him 
getting the loan or that that Mr B needed it to get the loan. 
Ref: DRN29022333Mr B says Emg advised him to take out the PPI, and that isnt disputed as it certainly  did 
recommend the policy to him. As I explained in some  detail  in my provisional decision there 
was nothing wrong with that recommendation. The fact Emg made a recommendation 
doesnt make the PPI mis-sold. 
The policy was suitable for him and he wouldve been able to claim on the policy if hed 
needed to. The PPI benefits  would  be paid on top of any other  resources Mr B had which 
would have helped  at a time when finances  may have been  difficult.
Although he may not have been fully informed of the limitations  and restrictions of the policy  
these would not have affected  him. And he was given a choice about taking out the PPI and 
made the decision to take out the PPI based  on the recommendation.
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed,  but Ive seen no new evidence to persuade  me to 
change the findings I made in my provisional  decision. So I confirm  that I dont think the PPI 
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out Im not satisfied  the PPI was mis-sold to Mr B by 
Emg Anglia Ltd so Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902233