K820x#14complaint
Mr E says TSB Bank plcs IT issues had an impact  on him. He says this caused him 
inconvenience and meant he and a relative  incurred call costs  trying to resolve his 
concerns. Hes also unhappy that TSB did not respond to his complaint.
what happened
Mr E switched his TSB account to a new bank, which included  the transfer of two 
standing orders. TSB had experienced IT issues, starting in April 2018,  and due to this 
some account switches werent happening  in the way they should.
Because of concerns that payments might not have  been switched correctly, Mr Es new 
bank left him a voicemail message suggesting  that he check the details of his standing 
orders to make sure TSB had given the correct payment details to the new bank.
Mr E spent time on the phone to his new bank,  and also to the building society that one 
of his standing  orders was payable to. His relative  also called her bank to make sure the 
standing order she was due to receive from Mr E had arrived. Both payments had 
arrived in the recipient  accounts, but Mr E later found out that the standing  order  to the 
building society didnt  have an end date  which it should have done if it had been 
switched correctly. So he logged  on to his online banking with his new bank to cancel 
the standing order.
Mr E would like the cost of the calls he and his relative made  to be refunded to him. He 
also wants compensation for the inconvenience of having to call and log into online 
banking to make sure everything  was set up as it should be.
Mr E made a complaint to TSB about what  had happened on 14 June 2018.  As TSB 
didnt respond  to his complaint within eight weeks he referred the complaint to us.
Mr Es complaint was looked at by two of our adjudicators, but neither of them felt that 
TSB needed to cover  Mr Es call costs or pay him any compensation for what had 
happened. While they acknowledged  that Mr E had experienced some inconvenience,  
neither of them felt that he had been inconvenienced enough to mean  it would be 
appropriate to recommend  a compensation payment from TSB.
Mr E remained unhappy.  He felt hed been  significantly  inconvenienced  and that hed 
lost out financially because of the calls he made. And he didnt think the adjudicators had 
considered TSBs failure to respond to his complaint. So this complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I dont  uphold  this complaint. So Im not going to direct  TSB to pay Mr E 
any compensation, or cover his call costs.
Ref: DRN24754602I can understand Mr E may have been  concerned when he got the voicemail from his 
new bank. But it was his choice to make phone  calls to find out whether  the payments 
had been received, rather than simply logging into his online banking with his new bank 
and checking  the standing  order recipient details were correct.  And I have to bear in 
mind here that, apart from the missing end date, both standing  orders  had been set up 
correctly and reached the intended recipients. 
Mr E wouldnt have  had to manually cancel the standing order to his building society if 
the end date had been set up correctly. But to recommend compensation for this Id 
need to see that the impact of TSBs actions had caused  more than a minor 
inconvenience to Mr E  and something more than the general day-to-day 
inconvenience we all sometimes  experience when dealing with other  people  and 
organisations. I dont  see that level of inconvenience  here. 
Its clear Mr E isnt happy with how TSB handled  his complaint; specifically that he didnt 
get a response  within the timescales  TSB had promised. This isnt ideal  and Ive 
thought about what hes said. But its not our role to punish or fine businesses for failing 
to meet  their complaint  handling service standards. 
Taking everything into account,  including the limited  steps Mr E needed to take to sort 
out the standing order  and that the whole issue appears to have been resolved within 
a day  I dont  think  I can fairly say that TSB should pay compensation in these 
circumstances.
my final decision
Taking everything into account,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint   
so I make no order or award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2475460