K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Carnegie  Consumer Finance Limited (Carnegie) have not allowed him 
to cancel a finance agreement he has with them.
background
Mr B signed  up for a course on 17 January 2019. He funded  the course through a fixed  sum 
loan with Carnegie.
On 16 February 2019 he told Carnegie that he wanted to cancel the agreement.  They 
explained that he was allowed to cancel  within  14 days of the date he signed the agreement 
with them  but that his request had been made too late.
Mr B explained that he wasnt  given a copy of the agreement  when he signed it and that the 
posted copy, whilst dated 24 January, hadnt  arrived  until 4 February.  He said this meant  he 
had applied  to cancel within 14 days.
Mr B therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her 
opinion. She thought  it was reasonable to suggest  the agreement  was executed when it was 
signed and she therefore thought it was clear Mr B had not applied to cancel his agreement 
in time. 
But Mr B disagreed. He said he wasnt out of time as he hadnt received the agreement  until 
4 February 2019  and he said he hadnt started  the course and had returned the materials. 
He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B funded his course through a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant  legislation  allowed Mr B a 14 day cooling off period were it was possible to 
cancel his agreement. 
The agreement explained that the 14 days  began the day after the day on which you 
receive a copy of the executed agreement  and ending 14 days later
Ref: DRN26572442I think its reasonable to suggest the agreement  was executed  on 17 January 2019  when 
Mr B signed  it. But its then necessary for me to consider  when he received it because the 
terms of the contract  explain that the 14 days only begin when its received.
I think its most likely  a copy  of the agreement  was received on 17 January 2019. I say that 
because:
thats when  it was signed  and I think thats  the most likely point at which  a copy 
would be provided;
the enrolment form that was in the welcome pack  explains  that Mr B is signing to say 
hes received a copy of the agreement.
But even if Im wrong about that, I note a copy of the agreement was included in with the 
welcome letter that was sent to Mr B and dated  24 January 2019. Mr B says he didnt 
receive this until the 4 February but Im persuaded its more likely that the letter  was received 
earlier and would still have given Mr B enough  time to cancel the course without  liability.
So Im afraid  I dont think theres sufficient evidence here that Mr B made  a request to cancel 
within the 14 day cooling off period.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657244