K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about how Argos Limited  (Argos) handled his account  after he contacted  it 
to query  a transaction.
background 
Mr T noticed an unrecognised transaction on his account for £498.98. In April 2018  he 
contacted Argos  to query the transaction and was told it would be investigated.  Mr T didnt 
hear anything and called again at the end of May 2018. He was informed that Argos hadnt 
investigated.
Mr T raised  a complaint at the beginning of August 2018. He said that Argos  had failed to 
deal with the issue effectively and was unable to tell him what the item was. He also said 
that the interest on the item was applied incorrectly and that his credit rating had been 
affected.
Argos says Mr T made three transactions in April 2017 as follows:
6 April 2017 - £499 for a television that was immediately refunded
6 April 2017 - £499 for a television that was refunded later that month
14 April 2017 - £498.98 for three  items including a drone. It is this transaction that Mr 
T queried.
These items  were all purchased using Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) plans. Argos  has now 
acknowledged that it made  a mistake and that when the second television was refunded, the 
BNPL plan for the third item was repaid  instead  of the BNPL plan for the second television.  It 
has calculated the difference in interest that would have been applied and refunded around 
£11 to the account.
Mr T says Argos is still incorrect. He says that he purchased  a television for £499 which was 
returned. He says he then purchased a drone for £499, which  was also returned.  But he 
says he doesnt  recognise the transaction for £498.98.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He said that Argos had 
evidenced that the transaction  Mr T had questioned was made  up of three items, including  
the drone  so he was satisfied the transaction had taken place. But he did think  Argos  had 
made a mistake in repaying the wrong  BNPL plan, which  had caused  Mr T to be charged 
interest sooner  than he shouldve been. But he thought Argos had put this right by refunding  
the interest.  And he didnt think this meant Mr Ts credit file needed to be amended.  He also 
thought that Argos  had handled Mr Ts query poorly  and said that Argos should pay Mr T 
£150 compensation.
Mr T didnt  agree so the complaint has been  passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN25765792Mr T has made  a number of detailed  points  and Ive considered all of them. But my 
decision will focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as 
a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal  nature of our service and my role in it.
Mr T doesnt think Argos has provided  evidence that the final transaction  took place and 
wants a receipt to show this. But Argos has provided  us with evidence,  that was sent to Mr 
T, showing  that an order was placed  and sent to Mr Ts address. Mr T says this information 
isnt correct and that he has screenshots showing this. However, this service  has asked Mr T 
to provide evidence  of his transactions on several  occasions so we can investigate,  and Mr T 
has declined  to do this. 
Both Argos and this service has also asked  Mr T to provide evidence that the drone  was 
returned, which hasnt  been provided. So without further evidence,  I have to make a decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  so what I think is most likely. And based  on the evidence I 
have from Argos, showing  that a transaction  was made from Mr Ts usual IP address, I think 
its likely  that the transactions took place  in the way Argos has explained.
Mr T has maintained throughout the complaint  that interest has been  applied incorrectly  to 
his account  and I agree  with him. As a result of our investigation, Argos  identified  that it 
had applied  his refund to the wrong  BNPL plan. That meant  interest was applied  to the 
outstanding balance a month sooner than it should have been. Argos has told this service 
that it has now calculated  the difference in interest  and refunded that directly to Mr Ts 
account. So I think it has put Mr T back in the position he wouldve been  in, had the refund 
been applied  the correct  BNPL  plan.
I have also considered whether Argos needs to remove the default  registered on Mr Ts 
credit file against this account. As Ive explained above, Mr T should have been given an 
additional month to repay the account  before interest was added  but this didnt  happen 
because of Argos error. But Mr T wasnt meeting his minimum monthly repayments to the 
account during  this time  and the account wasnt defaulted due to Argos  error. It was 
defaulted as Mr T wasnt making his contractual repayments, which  he is obliged to do. So 
Im unable to ask Argos to remove the default  against this account. 
Having reviewed this complaint,  I dont think Argos has handled  Mr Ts queries as well as it 
should have done. It took it several months  to tell Mr T what items the transactions  were for 
and wasnt proactive in following this issue up with Mr T, which meant  he had to chase this 
matter up far more than he should have done. It didnt investigate  Mr Ts initial  concerns  and 
there were also times where it seems Argos agents  were confused about which  transactions  
they were discussing.  
Mr T has said that he believes his compensation should be far more than the £150 the 
investigator recommended. And says that he has calculated his costs  in dealing  with this 
matter as £800. He hasnt  provided  any information  as to how he came to this figure but in 
any case, this service wouldnt generally recommend that Argos  reimburse  Mr T for his time 
spent on the complaint. Instead I have considered the impact of Argos mistakes on Mr T. 
And taking  everything  into account,  I think Argos should pay Mr T £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused to Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN25765793Argos Limited should pay Mr T a total of £150 compensation and apply the interest  refund of 
£11.14 to Mr Ts account if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2576579