K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund £4,000  he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
On 18 March 2019 Mr H, received  a call from a telecommunications provider, of whom  he 
was a customer. The caller asked Mr H to confirm details  of his direct  debit  which he paid 
via a third-party bank  account. 
Shortly afterwards Mr H received a call from someone who claimed to be calling from his 
third-party bank. Mr H was told his account  with that bank  along with his TSB accounts  
and an account  with another bank were  under  attack  and he should transfer his funds to a 
safe account. 
Mr H transferred £2,000  from one of his TSB accounts, followed by a further £2,000 from a 
second account he held with TSB, to the scammers account. He completed the 
transactions online himself.
Mr H became suspicious and called TSB, which is when he realised he had been 
scammed.
TSB attempted  to recover Mr Hs funds but was unable  to do so. Subsequently TSB didnt 
agree to refund Mr H the transactions  that left his accounts. It said Mr H authorised the 
transactions himself  and there wasnt anything to suggest the transactions  were suspicious 
at the time. 
Mr H was unhappy with TSBs response, so he bought the complaint to our service. 
The investigator who considered Mr Hs complaint did not recommend it be upheld.  He 
accepted Mr H had authorised the transactions and there was nothing unusual  or suspicious 
about the transactions considering his normal account and payment activity.  
TSB accepted the investigators findings, but Mr H didnt. In summary, he believes the 
procedures for trapping fraudulent activity were  woefully inadequate at the time.  TSB 
introduced a fraud guarantee  along with its new procedures only three  weeks after the 
incident. He was able to remove the entire balance which had previously been stable. The 
activity was highly unusual. The fact that this did not trigger a more  rigorous  response  from 
TSB other than a text message demonstrates the inadequacy of their system.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans  decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than Mr H has presented  to 
us, but I have read all of his submissions. Im not responding to every single point made  but 
Ref: DRN25670342instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues  material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Mr H authorised  the two payments  of £2,000.  He was duped  by 
scammers into transferring his funds into their fake safe account. They deceived him over 
the phone  into thinking that fraudulent  transactions had been attempted on his account. 
I therefore accept  that this was an authorised payment even through  Mr H was the victim of 
a sophisticated  scam.  He logged into his online banking using his security credentials to
request the payment. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under 
the Payment Services  Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr H 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations  and good industry practice,  a bank has a 
duty to protect  its customers  against  the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. Amongst  other  things, this might involve a bank  looking to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly  unusual or out of character transactions   that could involve fraud  
or be the result of a scam. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably  to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Accordingly, I first need to determine whether TSB breached that duty when executing  
Mr Hs payment request  for the two transactions. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said about the activity on his account  and 
whether it was particularly  unusual or suspicious such  that TSB should  have been alerted to 
the possibility  he might have been  at risk of financial harm  and so questioned him further.
Most of the previous  activity on Mr Hs current account in the 6-month period before the 
scam related to standing orders and direct debits.  From what  I can see, Mr H made one 
faster payment  of £3,300 to a new payee (which appears to be a joint account  with his wife 
elsewhere) out of his account around six months  before. 
I appreciate the transfers were not in line with Mr Hs everyday activity. However, the 
balances werent  cleared.  This is unusual with a safe account  scam  as customers tend to 
move all of their money to safeguard  it. I appreciate the remaining balances  were lower than 
they had been in the recent past but there  did remain balances of around £540 across  the 
two accounts.
The payments did flag on TSBs systems. As a result, TSB sent Mr H a text message asking 
him to confirm the transactions as genuine.  But I'm not persuaded that it's reasonable to 
expect TSB to have  called Mr H based on the size of the payments and the balances that 
were left remaining  in Mr Hs accounts. I dont think that there was enough suspicion about 
the transaction that I wouldve expected TSB to call. I think  the text message it sent was 
proportionate in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN25670343There is a balance to be struck between identifying  payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption  to legitimate payments. Of course,  those arrangements 
do need to accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise,  and it will be 
impossible to prevent  all fraud without a significant  number  of genuine payments being 
delayed considerably and inconveniently. To the bank, it appeared a genuinely authorised 
payment. And Mr H was confirming this was the case. On the face of it, it seems to me that 
that there  was no reason why the payment wouldnt have  seemed genuine,  after the checks 
it made had been  carried  out.
I note Mr H refers  to TSBs Fraud Refund Guarantee  scheme,  whereby  TSB committed to 
protecting customers if theyre   as he was  the innocent victim of fraud. But, as TSB has 
already explained to him, the scheme wasnt introduced until after Mr H made  the payments 
in question. It isnt willing  to retrospectively  cover Mr H and, in the circumstances, and I cant  
fairly require  it to do so.
I am also satisfied that, on learning of the scam  from Mr H, TSB took reasonable steps to try 
to recover the funds from the payee  bank without undue delay. But by then it was too late  
the funds had already left, so there were no reasonable prospects of recovering them.
Im very sorry as I know this will be disappointing news for Mr H and I understand Mr Hs 
strength of feeling  about his complaint. Despite my natural sympathy for Mr H, who has been 
an innocent victim of a sophisticated  scam,  I am not persuaded  that TSB acted in breach  of 
contract or statutory duty and/or negligently   so it would  be unfair and unreasonable  to 
hold it liable for payments which, under the Regulations, Mr H must be regarded  as having  
authorised. 
My final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and therefore I 
make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2567034