K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc increased his credit card limit twice  in 2014 
without properly checking to make sure this was affordable.  
background
The original  limit for Mr Bs credit card account was £400. This increased to £800 in April 
2013. Mr B tended  to pay more than the minimum monthly payment each month, and paid a 
£400 lump sum off the card in August 2013, bringing the balance down significantly. Mr B 
generally used  the card for leisure and inessential spending, including  a number of gambling 
services transactions.  
In November 2013, Barclays account  notes  show it had decided to increase Mr Bs limit to 
£1,200 with effect from January 2014. 
In December 2013, the account balance was just under the £800  limit.
The increase  went ahead  as planned.  Mr B then spent more  on the card so his balance was 
nearly up to the new £1,200 limit by February  2014.
Mr B applied online for an increase to his limit in March 2014.  Barclays deferred its decision 
until after it had spoken to Mr B - as this was only a short time after the previous increase. It 
then agreed to increase his limit to £2,000. Within a month of this increase, Mr Bs balance 
was £1,843.11. 
Mr B says Barclays  shouldnt have given him either  of the increases because he was 
unemployed between December 2013  and April 2014. He says Barclays  decision caused 
him to spiral into debt at a time when he was vulnerable. Mr B has provided us with bank 
statements from another bank that show he was using the overdraft on his account. The 
balance on that went up and down, peaking at around a £1,200  debit. But Mr B does appear 
to have been making payments into the account, over the relevant period, as well as out of 
it. Mr Bs told us that some  of these were cash in hand he was receiving from a part-time job 
that he had before he became unemployed.
After the March 2014 increase to £2,000,  Mr B continued to make payments which were 
above the minimum monthly  sums  required. His bank statements indicate that he may have 
started a new job in April 2014. The payment collected by Barclays  on 10 September 2014 
was returned as unpaid and the charges applied to the account took him over his then credit  
limit. Mr B made a payment of £100  in mid-September 2014, bringing the account back 
within its limit and covering more  than the minimum he was required to pay. 
Mr Bs November  2014 payment was also late by a day. But after this, the account was paid 
on time and over the next year Mr B usually paid more than the minimum monthly payment 
due. 
In June 2016, Mr B complained to Barclays and said it had lent to him irresponsibly, causing 
him financial hardship. Barclays disagreed. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and felt it should  be upheld.  He felt 
Barclays shouldnt have  increased Mr Bs limits  at all. 
Ref: DRN29722282Barclays didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.  Prior to this 
final decision, I issued  a provisional  decision to the parties indicating  that I did not intend to 
uphold the complaint. Mr B responded to say that he didnt agree with my findings. 
Payments were made from an overdrawn bank account and he was quite understandably  
unhappy that his case had been  with the service so long and that Id reached a different 
conclusion to our investigator. Barclays didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that I will have to disappoint Mr B as my decision has not changed from my 
provisional findings. So I wont be upholding his complaint.  
Im very sorry that weve had this complaint for so long and that Mr Bs unhappy that my 
decision is different to that of our investigator. When an ombudsman  looks at a complaint, 
we do that completely afresh. Our investigator was persuaded that Mr B had been treated 
unfairly by Barclays. But for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, I dont think 
Barclays could have  known that Mr B was unemployed at the time or that the additional 
lending would have  caused him any significant  difficulty. And I needed to decide this based 
on what Barclays would have known  from the evidence available  to it at the time, not as a 
result of subsequent  information and events.
Mr B has complained about the two increases in 2014. There  were subsequent increases 
but I havent considered those in this decision.
The findings  from my provisional decision were as follows:
In considering this complaint, I need  to decide  whether  Barclays has treated Mr B fairly. In 
thinking about this, Ive considered all relevant factors,  in particular whether Barclays took 
adequate steps to check Mr Bs creditworthiness prior to each  increase. If I find that it didnt, 
or cant show that it did, then Ill need  to go on and consider what it wouldve  discovered if it 
had. And in turn whether I think that means  it was reasonable for it have raised his limit.
January 2014
Barclays reviewed Mr Bs account in November  2013. Its told us that its automatic internal 
checks showed there were no problems  with payments that needed flagging  at this time.  
Barclays also checked Mr Bs credit report status  and found no concerns there.
Ive also considered Mr Bs use of the account. Although he was near his account limit 
around the time the increase was decided on, I dont think theres sufficient  evidence  to say 
Barclays ought reasonably to have known he would struggle to manage  the increase. I say 
this because Mr B generally paid more than the minimum  monthly  payment due, and a few 
months before had paid a lump sum of £400 off the card. 
Mr B has said he was unemployed  at the time of this increase and so it was irresponsible for 
Barclays to increase his limit. But theres  nothing in the information Barclays could 
reasonably have had access to which wouldve highlighted this to it. 
Ref: DRN29722283It is true that by February 2014 Mr B had spent  almost up to his increased January limit of 
£1,200. But these transactions were not on essential  items  like household bills. Mr B has told 
us he was living at home  with his parents at the time. There  was no change  in Mr Bs 
transactional behaviour,  and there  wasnt any activity on the account,  like household bills 
being paid, which may have  indicated  he was struggling. He also still paid more than the 
minimum due each  month. 
Barclays internal notes show its decision to increase Mr Bs credit  limit in January 2014 was 
made in November 2013. The log of this event says:
CLI CAMPAIGN NEW CREDIT  LIMIT WILL  BE 1200GBP FROM  14JAN
Barclays says this note only appears on a file after a letter has been sent telling the 
consumer about  the limit increase. There is no specific  note that says credit  limit increase 
letter sent or words  to that effect.  Barclays doesnt have a copy of the letter it says Mr B was 
sent. Instead, its provided me with a template. This template  explained how the proposed  
limit increase could  be declined. 
Mr B says he didnt receive  the letter. But hes also said he didnt read letters  from the bank. 
His statements did however detail that his limit had been increased and that he could contact 
Barclays if he wanted to discuss this.
Based on the evidence  available, I think Barclays more  likely than not did send the letter. But 
as Mr B is unlikely to have  read it, I expect thats  why he cant  remember receiving  it. So, on 
the basis of the evidence  available, I think that Barclays did check  the information that was 
available to it; did tell Mr B about  his options  to refuse the increase and didnt act 
unreasonably when increasing  Mr Bs credit limit in January 2014.
March 2014
Barclays records show that Mr B applied on the internet for a further credit limit increase to 
£2,000 in March 2014. The reason  he gave  for needing this increase was for travel.  Mr B 
also said to Barclays he was employed in the private sector  at this time and had an annual 
salary of almost £23,000. 
Mr B has said he told Barclays  he was unemployed at this time. Barclays  underwriters have  
said that had they been  told this they would  not have offered the increase. 
Although Mr B had run the account  almost up to the limit hed received two months  earlier,  I 
cant see there was anything that had changed in terms  of his account use, and the way he 
managed the card.  So there was nothing obvious which ought to have indicated  to Barclays  
this increase wasnt affordable. The underwriters again checked  credit report  information  and 
found Mr B had an acceptable score.  
I think that in the circumstances it was right that Barclays conducted manual checks  to 
ensure this increase would be affordable for Mr B, given its close  proximity to the earlier 
increase. And from what Ive seen, there is insufficient evidence  that Barclays ought to have 
known this increase  mightve caused  Mr B problems. Indeed from the bank statements that 
Mr B has now sent us, it does appear that in April 2014 he was shortly  to have started paid 
employment. And the payment he received in the second month  does tie in with the annual  
salary Barclays  say Mr B told it about.
Ref: DRN29722284Looking beyond this increase, I can see it wasnt until September  2014 that Mr B missed his 
regular payment, but he was able to rectify this a few days later.  I appreciate that some 
consumers in financial difficulty will prioritise their commitments differently and so looking 
simply at whether minimum payments were made on time isnt always  sufficient in and of 
itself to reach a balanced outcome in a case like this. Thats why Ive also considered Mr Bs 
account usage, as well as Barclays assessment of his credit scoring. 
Whilst a lot of the transactions  on Mr Bs card were with gambling services, that isnt of itself 
something that I think should  have highlighted to Barclays  that this lending was unaffordable.  
Some customers choose to use a particular card for a designated purpose. And Mr Bs use 
of the card in this way wasnt necessarily unusual - given it had always been  used for 
gambling. There was no sudden change to Mr Bs behaviour that should have rung alarm 
bells for Barclays. Indeed  given  the subsequent account history after the two increases in 
2014, it does appear  that, after this time, Mr B had a job and the lending  was then 
affordable.
So I dont  think Barclays acted unreasonably  in approving  Mr Bs March  2014 requested  
increase.
My findings  havent  changed from those set out in my provisional  decision and now form part 
of this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2972228