K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited  handled and settled a claim for water 
damage he made under his home insurance policy.
background
In March 2016 Mr C made a claim under  his Ageas home insurance policy because his 
kitchen floor had dropped  several inches and the units  were  moving away  from the wall.
Ageas appointed a surveyor to determine the cause of the damage.  Mr C advised that he 
had recently had cavity  wall insulation installed.  The surveyor said the damage had likely 
been caused by poor workmanship in the installation  which was causing damp in the 
property. Ageas declined to cover the claim.
It was agreed that Mr C would obtain a comprehensive report  from the contractors,  who had 
undertaken the cavity wall work,  in respect  of the cause of the damage.  After inspecting  the 
property the contractors denied any liability for the damage that had occurred and said it 
wasnt related to the work they had undertaken. Mr C went on to get a drainage  report and a 
report from a surveyor  appointed by the said contractors. This showed  that there had been 
water damage, which had been  caused  by a leak from faulty drains.  In April 2017 Mr C sent 
the reports to Ageas  who reviewed them and agreed  to cover Mr Cs claim. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to attend  Mr Cs property and assist it in dealing with the 
claim. Unfortunately, because of the delays  in Ageas agreeing  to cover the claim the 
damage to Mr Cs property became progressively worse  due to damp. Ageas offered Mr C 
around £1,400  for reinstatement.  But he felt this figure was too low. Ageas arranged another  
inspection and drew  up a significantly increased scope of works to reflect  the true value of 
the extent of damage.
Drying out was commenced  by Ageas contractors in August  2017.  Repairs  got under way, 
after asbestos was removed, in November 2017.  They were supposed to be completed by 
Christmas 2017 but they werent  completed until three months later.  Ageas said it was 
proactively monitoring  Mr Cs claim  but external delays, such  as material deliveries and 
contractor availability, postponed the completion date.
Mr C complained, through his sister, Mrs W, of significant delays and that the budget wasnt 
enough for him to have the same quality kitchen as before. Specifically the new sink was 
stainless steel rather than composite as had been  there before. When the tap was turned on 
the sink bowed. Mr C also complained that Ageas hadnt offered to carry out trace and 
access, although it was covered under his policy. Mr Cs sister also pointed  out that he has 
significant health problems affecting  his mobility. His partner sadly passed away  while  the 
claim was ongoing.
Ageas agreed  there had been some delays and offered  Mr C £400 compensation. It said 
that the budget was reasonable and the loss adjuster and contractors worked with him to 
choose suitable items for repair. The sink wasnt the same type as before but this was 
agreed with the kitchen  designer and within what was left of the budget. It said that the tap 
chosen was too heavy  for the sink, although  Mrs W pointed out that the new tap had a long 
reach on it to help with Mr Cs mobility problems.  Ageas offer to pay £90 for the cost of 
plumbing in a new sink but Mr C would have to pay for the new sink. With regard to trace 
and access it pointed  out that this only came into force when  there was a valid claim.  It had 
paid the cost of the surveyors/ drainage reports.
Ref: DRN20389872On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Ageas position over trace and access 
and its initial  declining  of the claim was reasonable. He said that because of the delays and 
Mr C finding his home wasnt ready to move back to as promised Ageas should increase the 
compensation to £600. With regard to the sink he said that Mr C shouldve  been told if the 
tap chosen was unsuitable. He said Ageas should  pay for a suitable  replacement sink.
Mr C accepted the proposed award.  Ageas didnt agree  and said that it wasnt responsible for 
Mr Cs choice of sink. It pointed out that Mr C hadnt had an extended tap in his previous kitchen.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
decline of original claim in March 2016
Mr C feels that Ageas  shouldnt have  declined his claim initially  and that if its surveyor had 
looked at the damage properly it would have been  obvious that there  was an escape of 
water. Ageas  obtained  an independent  report.  When the surveyor attended Mr C advised  
that he had recently  had cavity wall insulation installed. The surveyor  determined that the 
insulation was likely not fitted properly causing  damp in the property. Mr C was advised  that 
in light of that evidence Ageas wouldnt be paying  the claim. I think  it was reasonable for 
Ageas to rely on a report from an independent expert as to the probable cause of the 
damage. The inspection didnt involve  any intrusive  work but in light of the fact that cavity  
wall insulation had recently been  installed and the surveyor  thought  it likely it wasnt  fit for 
purpose I think it reached a reasonable conclusion.
I think it was reasonable  also to ask Mr C to get a report  through  the installers of the 
insulation, it was still under warranty and any intrusive work by Ageas could have invalidated 
that. On the face of it the insulation seemed to be the likely cause. I accept that it wasnt in 
fact the cause and once  Ageas received the report which was a year after the claim was 
reported, it agreed to deal with the claim and paid Mr Cs surveyors fees.  Whilst I 
understand that it was difficult for Mr C to live with the damp for a year I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for that.
trace and access
Mr C didnt realise he had trace and access cover under his policy. He had difficulty in 
getting the money together to pay for his report and feels if hed been  told about this earlier  
the whole  matter could have been dealt with more  quickly. Unfortunately trace  and access 
cover under a policy is only payable  when there  is a valid claim for escape of water. This 
wasnt the case until Mr C showed Ageas  his surveyors report. And as Ageas paid for that 
report after reviewing it and accepting  the claim, I dont think it was at fault in not offering to 
carry out trace and access  or offering payment earlier.
Ref: DRN20389873delays
Mr C complained of substantial delays in the progress of the claim, as well as the initial  delay 
in accepting it.
Ive dealt with the initial  delay above. Mr C sent the surveyors  report  to Ageas in early April 
2017. Looking  at the claim  notes, Ageas was considering declining the claim again but 
reviewed it with the contractors and agreed to accept it as an escape of water claim. This 
took until 22 June,  which I think was too long,  In the meantime Mrs W had been chasing by 
phone and email.  
Mr C went into alternative accommodation, his late mothers flat, for which  Ageas pad the 
rent, from August 2017. Once the claim was accepted and the drying out got under way, 
asbestos was discovered  which caused  an unavoidable delay. After  drying  out and removal 
of asbestos, repairs  got under way in early November. There  was then a period when Mr C 
was in hospital. But there were also avoidable delays, including delays in delivery  of 
materials for the kitchen  which took some time to resolve. The carpet  was laid before the 
building work  finished  which led to extra cleaning being needed.  Mr C was told his home 
would be ready  by December 2017.  It wasnt in fact ready until late March 2018.
The damage was always going to take some time to repair, thats unfortunately the nature of 
water damage claims. But I think there were avoidable delays in dealing with Mr Cs claim 
which prolonged it by several months.  Ill deal with the question  of compensation and the 
impact on Mr C below.
budget and replacement sink
Mr C says the settlement  offer to him for all the repairs  was £1,400.  He felt he had to allow 
Ageas contractors to carry  out the repair. He says he was never given a full budget, and had 
to make choices as the matter went on. He also says he wasnt offered a sufficient cash  
settlement to allow his choice of contractors to carry out the work. 
He had a composite sink before but felt pushed  into having a stainless steel  one. The sink 
flexes and moves when  he goes to turn on the tap. Ageas said in its claim notes that this was 
because the mixer  tap he chose was too big for the sink. Its offered to pay the cost of 
installing a new sink but says Mrs W declined to choose a sink and left it up to the contractors.
The original  budget was based  on the first visit before the extent  of the damage in the 
ensuing year had been taken into account.  Ageas agreed to go out and rescope the work 
and agreed that its contractors would carry out the work. It may well be that a cash  
settlement wouldnt have been  enough but the policy (as is common to most household 
policies) does allow  for Ageas to pay what it would  cost it to use its suppliers, Mr C could 
have expected a like for like replacement of the sink  he had had a composite sink there 
before. It appears that the budget  for the kitchen  was used  up on other parts of it leaving Mr 
C with insufficient  (unless  he wanted to contribute himself) to have the sink he wanted. I note 
that the contractors  chose  the sink having  been told by Mrs W they could do so. Mrs W and 
Mr C chose the tap, which was a specialised one with a longer reach. And it appears that it 
is the size of it that has caused the problem.
Ref: DRN20389874Although the notes  are rather unclear about  what exactly  happened  Im inclined to think that 
the sink was a more  important item than,  say, extra shelving and Mr C should have been 
warned about  using  up the budget. Especially if, as seems to be the case, he was not given 
a fixed sum to work  with. Secondly as the contractors chose the sink they should have 
advised Mr C that his choice of tap was unsuitable. And whilst I note that Ageas have 
pointed out that Mr C didnt have any special  tap before, I think it should have accepted that 
he now wanted that and worked  with him to find the appropriate sink for the tap. I think that 
Ageas should  pay the reasonable cost of a composite sink, like the one Mr C had before, to 
go with the selected tap, and the installation costs.
compensation
There is no question that this claim had a severe  impact on Mr C, at a difficult time for him. 
Ageas cant be blamed  for the initial delays but I do take into account that during the claim Mr 
Cs partner sadly passed away. His sister  took over dealing with the claim. Whilst I cant award  
her compensation for the time she spent I can award it for how it affected Mr C. I think  Ageas 
dealt with him sympathetically  but the combination  of his being unsure about the budget  and 
the delays meaning  he was out of his home  for probably three months longer than he should 
have been are factors I take into account.  In light of the particular impact  it had on him, I do 
think that the proposed increase in the compensation to £600 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr C the reasonable  cost of a suitable replacement sink, including  installation,  to 
go with his choice  of tap.
pay to Mr C £600 compensation. This includes the £400 already offered  so if any of that 
has been paid Ageas may deduct  it from its payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2038987