K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.  Hes also unhappy about the customer  service  hes 
received.
background 
In May 2017  Mr L was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
In November 2018 Mr L contacted BMWFS  and reported issues with the iDrive system. The 
system was replaced in December 2018.
Mr L says hes still experiencing issues with the iDrive system.  He feels that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and wants a refund of all the repayments hes made  
under the finance agreement throughout the period  hes experienced issues,  which he says 
is from November 2018 to June 2019.  Mr L is also unhappy about the lack of communication  
from BMWFS since  November 2018.  He wants to cancel the agreement.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said there were issues  with the iDrive  system  
which had affected  Mr Ls enjoyment of the car. She said that the issue  didnt warrant 
rejection of the car but recommend that BMWFS paid compensation for loss of enjoyment  
and distress and inconvenience.  
Mr L didnt agree. He felt that the investigator  hadnt  addressed the part of his complaint 
which related to poor customer service. He said that the attempts to fix the issue hadnt  been 
successful and he felt that he should be able to cancel the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid.
BMWFS has accepted  that there was a fault present with the iDrive system which impacted 
on Mr Ls driving experience. It said the system had been repaired and offered 
compensation of two months repayments  totalling £542.14.
Mr L says the repair  hasnt been successful  and that hes still experiencing issues.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that where a fault arises  in the first 6 months its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, its up to the consumer (Mr L) 
to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Ref: DRN20970842If Mr L wants to rely on the unsuccessful  repair to reject the car and end the agreement, he 
needs to show  that (1) there is an ongoing fault and (2) the fault was present the point of 
supply.
Mr L has said that the fault is ongoing. But I havent seen anything from BMW which  
confirms this. I can see that the car went back to the dealership  recently but its not clear  
whether a fault was found. Further, I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the fault was 
present or developing at the point  of supply. Theres no expert evidence  (for instance, in the 
form of an independent engineers report) which says that the fault was present at the point 
of supply, which is the type of evidence I would need to see in order to be able to conclude 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
Because I havent  seen evidence which enables me to conclude  that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, Im unable to ask BMWFS to accept a rejection of the car.
Ive taken into account the fact that attempts have been made to repair  the issue. I accept 
that the issue has affected  Mr Ls enjoyment of the car, but I cant  see that its prevented  him 
from using the car. Because  Mr L has had use of the car I cant ask BMWFS to refund all of 
Mr Ls repayments. But I think  BMWFS should pay compensation  to reflect the loss of 
enjoyment caused to Mr L.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Mr L has been caused a degree of distress  and 
inconvenience at having to return the car to the dealership  for repairs  on more than one 
occasion. I think BMWFS should pay compensation for this as well.
Ive noted Mr Ls concerns about the customer service  hes received from BMWFS. This 
service is only able to consider complaints  about  regulated activities. Customer  service  isnt 
a regulated activity.  However, I can consider the customer service provided by BMWFS  in 
relation to the agreement itself, and I have  reflected  this in the compensation awarded for 
distress and inconvenience which Ive mentioned above. 
Taking all of the available evidence  into account,  and whilst  I can see that Mr L has 
experienced some issues with the iDrive system, I cant  safely  conclude  that this is a point of 
sale fault or that the car is of unsatisfactory quality. Im satisfied  that the issue has impacted 
on Mr Ls enjoyment of the car and that hes suffered distress  and inconvenience  as a result  
of the issue and the customer service  hes received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited 
should:
Repair any ongoing fault with the iDrive system at no cost to Mr L.
Pay compensation for loss of enjoyment  of £542.14
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £50
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Ref: DRN20970843Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097084