K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) in  
March 2003.
background
The policy was to be used  alongside a joint mortgage but only Mr K was covered by the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs K say the policy wasnt properly explained to them  and wasnt suitable.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Because  Mr and Mrs K disagree, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and I have 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Although theres  only limited information  available about the sale,  from what  Ive seen 
HSBC recommended that Mr and Mrs K tale out PPI. So HSBC  needed  to make sure that 
the PPI was suitable and that the information  it gave  Mr and Mrs K was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
HSBC has only been able to provide limited paperwork from the sale.  Thats  not unusual 
given that the sale took place quite some  time ago. But I have seen evidence  from HSBCs 
electronic records that theyd applied for PPI. And Ive also that when they met to discuss 
their borrowing and review Mr and Mrs Ks situation that the HSBC representative made a 
recommendation that Mr and Mrs K take out PPI to go with their mortgage.  That 
recommendation was also included in a letter sent to them  following the meeting. 
I also would  have expected Mr and Mrs K to look through  any paperwork before they 
signed it, so that they would have been aware they were buying PPI. So I think its likely 
theyd have known  that they had the choice  not to buy it if they didnt want to. 
From what  Ive seen, Mr K was eligible  for the PPI cover and not adversely affected by any 
of the main policy terms and exclusions. Mr K told us he was in a high-risk occupation 
which would limit his ability  to make a successful claim on the policy.  But I havent  seen 
anything to suggest this would have  led to an issue with making a PPI claim. 
Mr K told us he was entitled to at least six months worth of benefits  from his employer if he 
wasnt able to work, as well as having entitlement to redundancy pay. The policy would 
pay out for up to twelve months if Mr K wasnt able to work, or if he lost his job  and it 
would pay out in addition to any other benefits, such as those to which  Mrs K was entitled, 
or other financial resources. So, given their situation, I think  this would ease the pressure 
on their household income.  It also means that Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have had to look to 
Ref: DRN21753102other ways  to help meet  their mortgage  payments. So the PPI seems  to have been a 
benefit which could  have been useful  to Mr and Mrs K, especially as they were taking on a 
significant additional expense with their mortgage  borrowing.
Given the limited information thats  still available from the sales  I can see that HSBC might  
have explained  the policy more clearly,  including giving details about the monthly cost of 
the policy. But from the information Ive seen, together with what I know about the PPI and 
the sales process used  at the time, I dont think that better information would have 
changed Mr and Mrs Ks decision to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant HSBC should  have  disclosed  the poor value and explained  the significance 
of the limitations  and exclusions and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought about these  things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ks 
particular case.  
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. So HSBC 
UK Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything to more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2175310