K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained American  Express Services Europe Limited wont refund transactions 
he didnt authorise.  This has resulted in them placing a default on his credit record  even 
though Mr S paid off those transactions he didnt dispute.
background 
Mr S held an Amex credit  card account.  In April 2018 he noticed there were transactions he 
hadnt authorised.  At different times  over the next month he notified  Amex of about  15 
transactions. They refunded most  of those to his account whilst querying them with the 
relevant merchants. By mistake Amex refunded additional amounts for £154,  £149 and 
£23.20. They also debited Mr Ss account with £37.48 in July 2018 after they noted  a 
duplicate refund for the same  amount.
As there had been genuine transactions on his card as well, Mr S repaid £310 to settle  his 
account in July 2018. Hed already asked for it to be closed.
One of the merchants  for a transaction of £161.99  challenged Amexs chargeback. This 
meant  according  to Amex  that Mr S continued  to owe them  money. They  got in touch to 
let him know  this. Amex  had mistakenly  said there were two un-refunded amounts:  £154 and 
£161.99. Mr S didnt get in touch with them until October. Amex then refunded this amount to 
his account. They realised £154  had been  refunded in May 2018. Amex believed  Mr S 
continued to owe money and they asked him to repay £173.74 in their final response.  
Although theyd refunded some late payment charges and given Mr S £50 compensation for 
their error, they continued to expect him to repay what was outstanding.
Mr S didnt believe he owed them anything further. As he couldnt resolve his complaint with 
Amex, he brought  his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Amex defaulted  Mr Ss account in March 2019 for the amount of £187.
Our investigator tried to get to the bottom  of what had happened. She noted Amexs 
statements were confusing with a number of credit  adjustments and then further re-debits. 
Despite pressing Amex,  she found it difficult to understand their logic why they believed Mr S 
continued to owe them money. She could also see Amex had continued to accept online 
transactions using  Mr Ss card details even after hed notified them of fraud concerns and his 
intention to close his account. 
After reviewing the transactions with Mr S, she felt shed got a complete  list of those that 
were disputed and those he accepted were his. She asked Amex to refund £143.93 to the 
account along with 8% simple interest.  She also asked them to cancel all late payment fees, 
refund interest  and remove all markers  from his credit record as Amex had not been clear  
what Mr S continued to owe them. She also asked Amex to pay Mr S a further £150 in 
compensation for the trouble caused.
Mr S wondered whether more compensation should be payable because of the impact of the 
default on his credit record but accepted  the outcome overall. He was, however, still 
concerned about  the security of Amexs  systems.  He didnt understand how transactions  
were processed when he retained possession of his card or how transactions  were allowed 
to be processed after he cancelled his card.
Ref: DRN20706182Amex didnt accept  this outcome. They felt theyd not been given an opportunity  to 
investigate some of the transactions  they were now being asked to refund. Mr Ss complaint 
was referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
During the waiting  period, Mr S became  anxious  about what was happening. Amexs debt 
recovery agent was continuing to ask him to settle the debt. He was also concerned  the 
default meant he couldnt apply to refinance his loan or start applying for mortgages.  To 
minimise the ongoing impact Mr S repaid the debt Amex was asking him to repay.
Mr S also complained to Amex about them putting  a default onto his credit record whilst  he 
was pursuing a complaint. He doesnt  think he was ever formally  notified of this. He wanted 
the ombudsman  service to consider these together. However a separate complaint was set 
up for this. Mr S got the impression for Amex to consider his new complaint; hed need to 
withdraw his complaint about the fraudulent  transactions.  He wanted the resolution to that 
complaint to be the removal of the default.  Amex confirmed to us theyd  not advised him this 
was the case.
Ive seen the further final response Amex wrote  to Mr S on 8 October 2019.
Mr S was due to get a mortgage offer on a property he wished to purchase and felt this was 
urgent. Mr S wanted  to withdraw all his complaints  against Amex but also wished to keep the 
option of having these  re-considered  at a later date. When Mr S realised that closing his 
complaints would make no difference to the existence of the default, he confirmed he wished 
his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Hes also requested Amex pay him compensation of £499 to cover  his costs for a mortgage 
adviser where a customer has a default  on their record.
Amex has noted  Mr S feels the default  is a disproportionate response to him only owing 
them £173.74. Theyre sympathetic but believe theyve  acted  in line with their terms and 
conditions.
I completed a provisional decision on 9 April 2020. I didnt think  Amex had been clear to 
Mr S about  what remained owing and why on his account. I was also not convinced theyd 
properly provided  a default notice  to Mr S. I asked  them to remove the default and late 
payment data; reimburse Mr Ss additional  costs  in trying to secure  a mortgage and pay him 
an additional  £450 in compensation.
Mr S felt more compensation should be paid but was keen to bring  the whole matter to an 
end. Mr Ss prospective house purchase  fell through  so he only ended up paying £299 for 
the advice as opposed to an effective mortgage offer.  Evidence  was provided to support this. 
He had, however,  paid an additional  £275 in valuation  fees.  He felt this was because he 
didnt have a full choice of mortgage providers due to the default on his record. Mr S 
remained concerned  about how long it would  take to have the default removed even after a 
decision instructing  Amex to do this.
Amex disagreed with my provisional decision but was prepared to accept the outcome. Our 
investigator was able to confirm this decision covered both cases that Mr S had referred  to 
our service  and the case under another reference  was now closed.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
Ref: DRN20706183my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so including Mr Ss and 
Amexs comments, overall Ive come to a similar  conclusion to my provisional decision. Ill 
explain further.
There are different threads to Mr Ss complaints and Ive reviewed all of these. As these 
issues are interlinked it makes sense to consider  these  all in one decision.
disputed transactions
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  When we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Amex  and Mr S have  told us. There was further correspondence  after the view. 
On Amexs part this included:
A spreadsheet showing all the transactions Amex believed were  in dispute;
Statements for Mr Ss account; and 
Copy of the default  notice  sent to Mr S.
I dont intend to repeat everything that has been  said in either our investigators view of 
8 August 2019  or subsequent emails. Except to say Im satisfied  Ive reviewed the complaint  
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Ive reviewed the disputed transactions on Mr Ss statements. There are 16 of these: 
some of them initiated on the same  day. Eight of these are for food delivery. From 
Amexs own spreadsheet which I have matched with the statements  and Mr Ss 
evidence to us, I believe these are all of the transactions Mr S disputed from 18 April 
to 25 May. These all took place  without the genuine card being  used  as processing 
was done using the card details alone.
During this timescale there were genuine  transactions being undertaken by Mr S. 
The last of these  was for tickets  which Mr S confirmed in an email  exchange  with our 
investigator.
I dont believe there  are any disputed transactions which havent been considered by 
Amex already. All of these were  refunded.  The last transaction for £161.99 was 
refunded on 11 October 2018.  
However I dont believe the statements Mr S received from Amex  after the disputed 
transactions could  be described as a model  of clarity. As Amexs  process  is to 
dispute transactions (whether fraudulent or just service-related) directly with the 
merchant, they suspend disputed transactions and note this on statements. They  
then receive credits from the merchants which are noted on the statements. This 
means Amex further annotates statements by stating theyre reversing  the 
suspension of disputed transactions.
Ref: DRN20706184In Mr Ss case, Amex  also suspended some transactions twice. There were four of 
these. For £149, £154,  £37.48 and £23.20. Amex wrote to Mr S on 28 May,  1 June 
and 22 June (twice) 2018 to confirm this. This was their mistake.
I think its likely Mr S relied on these refunds when  calculating what remained  owing  
on his account.  I can see why.
I can see Mr S was never completely sure whether  Amex  had fully covered all the 
transactions he disputed. I believe they have.  Ive been  able to compare their 
spreadsheet with Mr Ss account  statements. These clarify matters.  Its a shame 
theres no evidence  Amex ever wrote  to Mr S confirming all the transactions they 
reviewed; what theyd refunded and when; and what  his remaining balance was.
Mr S had cleared  his balance on 30 April 2018. There were then genuine 
transactions on Mr Ss Amex  statements dated  13 May and 13 June  2018.  Mr S paid 
£25 on 5 June  and £310 on 7 July 2018.  From  what I can see these payments didnt 
cover his genuine transactions. However  despite my best efforts, I cant get to the 
figure Amex believed Mr S continued to owe them.  But as my figure exceeds theirs, I 
accept theirs is more likely  to be correct.
Based on the evidence  I believe Amex  did deal with all the fraudulent  transactions. However 
the process theyve  used  did not make this clear to Mr S. I can see why he may have been 
misled into thinking  he owed less than he did.
Im now going to review  the default  placed  on his record by Amex.  I can review  this as Amex  
gave Mr S a final response in October 2019 even though they specifically didnt answer his 
questions.
Amex default
Amex said their most recent submissions included the notice sent to Mr S of their intention to 
default. I couldnt see this however. I did locate an arrears notice sent on 13 September 
2018  potentially with the statement of the same  date  as Mr S hadnt made minimum 
payments. There is then a final demand  dated 14 October 2018 from Amex  announcing what 
remained outstanding.  This refers to an earlier notice of intention  to default Mr S. However 
even if this was sent, I believe  the amounts referred to are incorrect.   
I note Amex only refunded the final disputed transaction of £161.99 on 11 October  2018  and 
the correspondence referred to above  may refer to earlier outstanding amounts on Mr Ss.
Mr S felt any default was unfair as he had referred  his complaint to our service before he 
became aware  of it. I appreciate thats  true. But Amex wouldnt be under  an obligation not to 
lodge a default whilst  we were considering his complaint.  
But Im not sure that aspect matters. I cant be sure Mr S was ever sent a default  notice  as 
required under  the legislation.  And if he was, Im certain it didnt quote  the correct  amount 
that was outstanding. This means I dont believe it would be fair that Amex  can continue  to 
lodge the default on Mr Ss credit record.
I know Amex believe  Mr S has refused  to pay whats owed because hes stubborn. Its 
certainly true we always advise complainants to maintain minimum payments at last to 
minimise any impact on their credit  record. I believe if Mr S had been  satisfied Amex hadnt 
made any errors when  sorting out his disputed transactions, then  from what Ive seen  I 
believe he would have  maintained payments and no default  would have  arisen.
Ref: DRN20706185Its certainly true that as Mr S understood what the default meant  he paid off the outstanding 
amount. When a financial business  sends  a default notice this should include information  
about what that means. If Mr S was never sent the notice as I suspect may be the case, then 
its likely  he wouldnt  have known this. I suspect  if he had, hed have taken steps earlier  to 
repay Amex.
appropriate compensation
Ive looked at the two key aspects of this complaint  the disputed  transactions  and the 
default  to decide what Amex should  do to put things right.
I believe Amexs error  about exactly what transactions they were reviewing led to Mr S 
remaining unclear  about what was owed.
Its not my role to tell Amex what internal policies and processes to follow. They can set 
these themselves. However  I can review what impact theyve had on a customer. In this 
case I think this caused Mr S to not know exactly what Amex had done  to sort out the 
disputed transactions.  He didnt pay as he didnt think he owed them anything further and 
this led to a default being  put on his credit  record.
This in turn limited Mr Ss options in re-financing a loan,  getting a new credit card or 
obtaining a mortgage at a reasonable rate.
Ive already decided Amexs  errors  led to Mr S not paying. Im also aware Mr S has now 
repaid the outstanding amount. Amex originally gave Mr S £50 compensation for their 
mistakes. But I dont believe thats enough.  I think overall this has had a serious impact on 
Mr S and that £500 in total would  be a fair amount. So Ill be asking Amex to pay Mr S a 
further £450. Ive considered Mr Ss belief  it should be more  but I think this award is in line 
with our approach  on these cases.
This is in addition to removing all negative data  including  the default  from Mr Ss credit 
record.
Mr S has asked  Amex to pay fees for his mortgage broker.  I think  this is fair. Mr S showed  us 
he ended  up paying £299 as an advice fee. He also paid a further  £275  for a valuation.  I 
dont believe  hed have  been required to pay this if the default hadnt  existed.  I will also be 
asking Amex to refund  these amounts to him. Theres  no dispute the default on his record  
would have limited  his mortgage options.
Mr S has raised a number  of issues around  the security of Amexs systems. He believes we 
should also be considering those aspects.  But actually thats not my role as an ombudsman. 
I review the specific issues around  Mr Ss complaint rather than how Amex  provides secure  
payment systems. Rather thats  an issue for the regulator.
I know Mr S remains concerned about  the time Amex may take to resolve his complaint. I 
appreciate hell be sceptical but I believe Amex  will do what they need  to do as promptly  as 
they can. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  American Express Services  
Europe Limited to:
Ref: DRN20706186Remove all adverse data, including the default, from Mr Ss credit record related to 
his Amex account;
Pay Mr S £450 in compensation for the trouble caused; and
Refund Mr S the cost of his mortgage brokers advice  fee and valuation  costs being 
£299 and £275.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2070618