K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  and three  instalment loans that MYJAR provided 
to Mr B between February 2015  and August 2015. Mr B first borrowed four payday loans 
with the repayments ranging  between £120  and £367.20. He then borrowed three instalment 
loans for amounts increasing from £300  to £1,500 and to be repaid over three or six monthly  
instalments. Mr B borrowed continuously  during  this period and he repaid all his loans. 
Mr B also raised a number of concerns about MYJARs level of service to him during his 
borrowing. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. He also thought MYJAR hadnt  done anything wrong in 
its level of service to Mr B. MYJAR  disagreed with the adjudicators view about the loans and 
so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN21508112I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr B for information  about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr B said his monthly  income was £1,700. He said his expenditure was 
between £536  and £656 a month. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr B provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr B was saying. So I cant say that MYJAR was wrong to have provided 
loans one to three. 
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four, Mr B was showing signs that he was struggling to 
repay some of his previous loans: 
Hed borrowed four times in two and a half months with only very small gaps  between  
the loans;
The amount  hed borrowed increased between  loans one and three and didnt decrease  
significantly for loan four.
So I think a pattern of frequent  borrowing had been  established by loan four. And I think 
MYJAR should have  realised that Mr B would be unlikely to be able to sustainably  repay  
loan four or any subsequent loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr B with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN21508113Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because by loan seven,  a pattern of persistent borrowing had been 
established which suggested that Mr B was reliant  on short-term  loans.  This is because by 
loan seven, Mr B had been  borrowing  continuously  for six and a half months  and the amount 
he borrowed  had increased  significantly. Mr B had paid large  amounts of interest  to, in 
effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an extended  period.
I think that Mr B lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing for loan seven 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability  
to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to seven and I think  MYJAR  should put 
things right.
Mr B also complained that MYJARs level of service during the borrowing hadnt taken into 
account his vulnerabilities  and his mental health.  He was also unhappy as he said it hadnt 
allowed him to freeze interest or told him how to complain.
Ive looked at these concerns and I cant say that MYJAR acted wrongly.  Mr B thought 
MYJAR had pressured  him into taking top-up loans. But I can see that MYJAR doesnt  offer 
top-ups or roll-overs. Mr B said MYJAR hadnt  taken into account his mental health and his 
vulnerabilities. But I cant see that he told MYJAR about these and I cant  see any signs  that 
should have alerted it to them. 
I think MYJAR responded sympathetically and positively when Mr B told it of his financial 
difficulties. It set up a payment plan and referred  him to debt advice services. Mr B accepted 
the payment plan and repaid this early. I cant see that he asked for the interest to be frozen. 
And I can see that information  about how to complain is set out on MYJARs  website.  So I 
cant say that MYJAR did anything wrong  on these points. 
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr Bs credit file;
the number  of loans taken by loan seven means  any information recorded  about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan seven should be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN21508114my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2150811