K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined his travel insurance  claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
background
Unfortunately Mr D and his family were burgled on holiday. They had left their villa door ajar 
when they went  for breakfast. Their cash was stolen.
Mr D reported the matter to the police. The police report stated that an unknown person(s) 
had entered the villa and took advantage of a moment of carelessness, through the main 
door which was open. The police report said the burglar(s) had stolen:
300 euros from Mr Ds wifes  purse which was in a bag in the wardrobe
1900 euros and £300  which were in a locked safety deposit  box in the villa.
The safety deposit box was opened using its key which had been in the same  place  as 
Mr Ds wifes purse.
UKI declined  Mr Ds claim for theft. The policy said Mr D had to take reasonable care  to 
prevent loss. UKI said Mr D hadnt taken reasonable care to prevent the theft.
Our investigator thought UKI had fairly  declined  the claim.
Mr D wants an ombudsmans decision.  He accepted  the key to the safe wasnt  in a secure  
place but he said it was well hidden. He didnt think the villa door being slightly ajar was 
careless. The door looked closed from the road. He suggested the burglary must  have  
known where the key was, as other nearby villas  had their doors  wide open and were an 
easier target  for being burgled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did.
The policy doesnt  define reasonable care and in those circumstances we use the test of 
recklessness set out in the leading  legal case on reasonable  care.  In summary, there  needs  
to be evidence that a consumer recognised a risk but took it anyway  by taking no measures 
at all or measures they knew were  inadequate.
In this case Mr D recognised the risk of theft while the family  were out of their villa. They put 
cash in the safe and hid other cash and the safe key.
But in leaving the door ajar in effect Mr D took no measures  or measures he knew to be 
inadequate against the risk of theft. As the door was left ajar the burglar had very easy 
access to the villa. They could just walk in without attracting any unnecessary  attention and 
go through Mr D and his wifes items.
Ref: DRN25631642The bag containing some cash and the key to the safe containing the other cash  was hidden 
in the wardrobe. The policy doesnt  cover cash unless on Mr D, locked  in his personal 
accommodation or in a locked safe.  But the wardrobe wasnt  a secure  place to leave  the 
safe key and by leaving  the key there, in effect,  Mr D took no or inadequate  measures 
against the risk of theft.
I note Mr Ds comments that he thinks  the burglar knew the location of the key as other  villas  
were easier to burgle. But that doesnt mean Mr D took reasonable care to prevent his loss.
Overall I think  UKI can fairly say Mr D didnt take reasonable  care to prevent loss and 
decline the claim
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2563164