K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral)  has made an offer of 
settlement under his motor insurance policy, thats  less than what  his car is worth.
background
Mr Rs car was stolen in October 2018.  Admiral agreed to pay the claim for the vehicle at a 
settlement amount of £43,580.  But Mr R thought this was too low and complained  to Admiral 
about this.
Admiral said it had compared the findings of three recognised trade  guides  to determine a 
fair market value for the car. And it had agreed  to settle the claim at the highest  amount  
produced by these  findings. It thought this was fair in the circumstances, so it didnt uphold 
Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R then brought his complaint to this service. He referenced the car manufacturers 
approved dealer website. It advertised similar  vehicles to his, at a higher price than the 
proposed settlement from Admiral. He also didnt think the policy terms clearly defined how 
Admiral determines the market value of a car. So he wanted it to increase the settlement to 
an amount higher than £45,900.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. But she thought the settlement offer from Admiral 
was fair and broadly in line with what shed  expect in the circumstances. So she didnt ask it 
to do anything else. Mr R didnt accept  her findings, so the case  has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  for broadly the same reasons as our investigator 
and Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy  says that in the event the insured car is stolen, the most it will pay in relation to 
a cash sum,  is the market  value of the car  or items claimed for. It defines market  value  as; 
The cost of replacing  your car, with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss.
Mr R has told us that he thinks the cars value is worth more than £45,900. So he wants  a 
settlement higher than this amount. He says theres a small market  for his type of car, so it 
makes it difficult  to calculate a fair average from trade guides. And he thinks the policy  terms 
are unclear,  as they dont state that market  value will be determined  from using third party 
valuation sites.
My role isnt to value  Mr Rs car, but to make sure Admiral has settled his claim fairly  and 
reasonably and in line with his policy terms.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about  the small market for his type of car. But our 
approach to assessing a fair market  value takes into account  what  the motor trade guides 
say the market value is. These guides  are based on extensive nationwide research of likely 
Ref: DRN2195247selling prices, and use advertised prices   and auction prices, to work  out what likely selling 
prices wouldve been. And its the selling  price that fairly  reflects the market value  as thats  
the price to be paid.  In all the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied this is a fair approach.
Admiral took into account trade guides that placed the cars value between £39,900 and 
£43,580. Its therefore offered to settle the claim at the highest amount from these findings. 
Our investigator also carried out checks on trade  guides, they returned values of: 
CAP - £40,056, Glass  - £43,650 and Cazana - £43,155. This means that the total range of 
values were: £39,900 - £43,650. Admirals offer is within this range. So Im satisfied its a fair 
reflection of the market value of Mr Rs car and that its in line with the policy terms.
Ive considered all of Mr Rs comments, including what he said about the manufacturer  
approved dealer advertising a similar  car for £45,900. But this is an advertised price and the 
trade guides take such information into account.  I also have to consider that the lowest value 
from all of the searches  carried out in this case was £39,900. So Mr Rs points dont change 
my conclusion and I wont  be asking Admiral to increase its offer of settlement for Mr Rs 
claim.
I understand this isnt the conclusion Mr R is hoping for and so will likely come  as a 
disappointment to him. But I hope  he can understand  why I think  the outcome is fair, for the 
reasons Ive explained above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2195247