K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ) is holding him responsible for 
transactions that happened when a charge  card linked to his account was cloned.  
background
In January 2015, Mr P opened  a charge card account with Handelsbanken.  His wife and his 
eldest son were added to the account  as authorised users. For ease, Ill refer to the charge 
card issued to his eldest  son as card three.  
In January 2018, Mr P contacted his account manager. He wanted  to add his younger  son to 
the account so he could  have a card to take travelling with him. This call was not recorded  
and neither side can remember the exact date it happened.  Both sides agree 
Handelsbanken said the timescale  was too tight to issue a card before his younger son was 
due to leave. 
Mr P says he told the account manager  his younger son would  use card three instead. He 
says he informed Handelsbanken of the different countries where  transactions  might occur  
and it was clear they would be made  by his younger  son. The account manager disagrees. 
He says Mr P asked whether it would be possible for his younger son to travel with card 
three and was told no.
Mr Ps younger son took card three  with him. The account statements show card three  was 
first used abroad on 22 January 2018.  On 28 February 2018, card three was blocked. 
Handelsbankens system flagged up attempted  payments abroad  as suspicious and 
contacted Mr P to discuss them. Mr P spoke to a different  employee  at the bank and 
explained the transactions were linked  to a genuine purchase his son was trying  to make.  
The block  was removed.  Ive not seen anything  to suggest there was any discussion during 
this call around which of Mr Ps sons had the card. 
The next day, further transactions in the same  country were  processed.  It isnt in dispute 
these transactions  were  made using a fraudulent clone of card three. Spending for around 
£3,900 went through and attempted spending  for around £7,600 was declined.  
Handelsbanken contacted  Mr P because the transactions had flagged up as being 
suspicious. Card three was stopped  to prevent  any further use. The bank filled in the 
disputed card transaction paperwork as far as it could and sent it out for Mr Ps eldest son to 
review and sign. 
Mr Ps eldest  son signed the paperwork  on 8 March 2018. Handelsbanken  temporarily 
refunded the disputed  transactions whilst  it investigated. As part of its investigations, it 
established that Mr Ps youngest son had been  using  the card abroad and declined the claim 
as a result. 
Mr P complained about the banks decision.  He said the account managers  recollections of 
what had been  discussed werent  accurate. 
Handelsbanken issued its final response  on 16 May 2018. It referred  to the terms and 
conditions of the account and said Mr P would be held liable for the spending because hed 
allowed someone else to use card three with his consent or with the additional cardholders 
consent. 
Ref: DRN28446582Mr P referred his complaint to this service. He said the account manager knew his younger 
son would  be given  card three, but it was his word  against the banks. 
When Handelsbanken provided its paperwork to our investigator,  it provided more detail 
about its position. It felt Mr P had breached the account terms, and that he had acted with 
gross negligence when  confirming the bank  could remove the block  on card three because 
he knew it was going to be used by his younger  son. It added  that the use of card three by 
the younger son whilst abroad was the direct cause  of the fraud. 
One of our investigators  looked into things and recommended the complaint should be 
upheld. He explained that a charge  card account  is a form of credit facility  and the physical 
charge card would be a credit token. He didnt  think Handelsbanken could fairly argue that 
Mr P had been grossly  negligent. He felt the evidence showed the disputed transactions  
were not authorised by Mr P or either of his sons so it would be fair to refund them. He 
added that neither Mr P nor his sons had any control  over the creation of the cloned card 
and that card three wasnt present when the disputed transactions were made. 
Handelsbanken disagreed  with the outcome reached and asked  for the matter  to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. It agreed  with what the investigator had said about the charge 
card being  a credit token  for the purposes  of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 and accepted 
that this meant its earlier argument that Mr P had been grossly  negligent  became less 
relevant.
But it felt the investigator  had not applied section 83 and section 84 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 correctly. Handelsbanken said it was clear  the card was cloned in the country  
where Mr Ps younger son was travelling. So it felt the cloning of the card and the 
transactions that followed only happened because Mr P gave his younger son card three  to 
take with him and use. 
It was concerned that a low level of responsibility  and accountability was being  placed by our 
service on Mr P and that his conduct in facilitating  the sharing of the card was being 
overlooked. It also felt Mr P had misled the bank and the fair and reasonable outcome in all 
the circumstances would  be to not uphold his complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision on 26 May 2020.  In it, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  An extract of that decision is set out below:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant considerations, including the terms and conditions of the account, 
applicable law and regulation; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of practice;  
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the time. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, Im not currently  
persuaded that it would  be fair and reasonable to say Handelsbanken should refund Mr P. 
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN28446583The circumstances of this particular complaint are fairly unique. Handelsbanken set up the 
charge card facility for Mr P with his wife and elder  son as authorised users. This meant  that 
Mr P was ultimately responsible for the spending that he and the other authorised  users  
made. If things had gone to Mr Ps plan, Handelsbanken  would have added  Mr Ps younger  
son to the account  as an authorised user too and he would have had his own card to use on 
his trip. 
Against that backdrop, I can perhaps see why Mr P may have thought  the decision to share 
card three with his younger son would make little practical difference because  Mr P was 
ultimately responsible  for repaying  the spending  across the three cards. But I also think Mr P 
was aware that his younger son needed  his own card because he did call the bank to try and 
arrange it. 
Both parties  have strong feelings  about  the phone call that took place before Mr Ps younger 
son went travelling. Both sides  agree Mr P raised the possibility of adding his younger son to 
the account as an authorised user and they agree Mr P was told there was not enough time 
to sort it out. But neither side has been able to provide enough  detail for me to establish just 
how late Mr Ps request was made. 
Mr P says it was made clear he was going  to give his younger son card three to use. The 
bank strongly disputes that it agreed to this and strongly disagrees that an experienced 
member of bank staff would direct  a customer to breach  basic  security procedures  in that 
way. 
It is unfortunate there is no call recording or notes from that time available.  If the bank had 
agreed to make an exception for Mr P, I think its more likely than not it would have been  
documented, especially as any exception would  have permitted him to give card three to a 
third party, which is not normal  practice  and would  have exposed the bank to risk. On 
balance, Im not persuaded Handelsbanken  encouraged or agreed to Mr P sharing card 
three with his younger son. Im also mindful  that when the fraudulent  transactions were 
identified, matters initially proceeded  on the basis it was Mr Ps elder son that was in 
possession of card three at the time they happened. This suggests to me it is unlikely the 
bank had expressly agreed  Mr Ps younger son could have and use card three.  
Its clear Mr P had no concerns with how his younger son was using card three. The loss at 
the heart of this dispute only occurred because it was cloned by fraudsters. The bank has 
confirmed its technical evidence shows the card used to make  the disputed  payments was a 
clone and the PIN was bypassed. 
Theres no suggestion Mr P or his younger  son had any involvement  in or benefit from the 
disputed transactions.  So I think Mr Ps authority  only extended to his younger son and not 
to the actions of the fraudster. 
But Handelsbanken has pointed out that the terms and conditions  of the charge card 
account do not permit Mr P to give his younger son this authority. 
The terms and conditions  
Ive looked closely  at the terms  and conditions of the facility. They explain the steps that 
should be taken  by Mr P and the authorised users to look after the charge cards and 
associated PINs, including keeping the card safe and secure and not allowing  anyone else 
to use it. So there has been a breach  of the account  terms and conditions by giving card 
three to the younger son.
Ref: DRN28446584The bank would  not have suffered the loss by paying the fraudsters  if it had not been for 
Mr P breaching the terms and conditions by giving  card three to his younger  son to take 
abroad and use. But the banks loss is a somewhat indirect consequence of his breach, 
because the fraudsters cloned  the card and used it. 
Ive thought about whether Mr P is liable for the losses caused  to the bank as a result  of his 
breaching the terms and conditions of the agreement between  them.  Ive not seen anything  
in the terms and conditions to specify the type of damage the bank is allowed to recover 
from Mr P, so Ive thought  about  whether the losses from the fraud are too remote from 
Mr Ps actions  to be recoverable in damages  against him. 
The leading textbook, Chitty on Contracts, says that a kind of loss is not too remote a 
consequence of a breach of contract if, at the time of contracting (and on the assumption 
that the parties actually foresaw the breach in question), it was within  their reasonable 
contemplation as a not unlikely result  of that breach.
Applying that principle  to the present case,  I think the relevant question is whether,  when  the 
bank and Mr P entered into their agreement in relation to the charge cards,  reasonable 
parties would  have contemplated that if Mr P breached the agreement  by giving a card and 
PIN to a third person  to use, it was not unlikely that the card details might be obtained and 
used by others to defraud the bank?
I think the bank  could always have foreseen that sharing a card in that way would increase 
the risk of fraud and loss. And whilst I dont think a reasonable  account  holder in the position 
of Mr P would have necessarily thought about  the possibility that the card could go on to be 
cloned if it were given to a third person, I do think a reasonable person in his position would 
have thought that sharing  a card and PIN was a risk and could  result  in the bank suffering a 
loss because of theft of the card or its details and fraud by someone  else.  That suggests the 
terms and conditions do allow Handelsbanken to recover the loss it suffered from Mr P. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether that position  is impacted by the relevant statute law. 
The relevant  statute law 
As a starting point,  the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) say that a person to 
whom a card has been issued must  use it in accordance  with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and must  notify  the bank which provided it in the agreed 
manner and without  undue delay on becoming  aware of the its unauthorised use.
Where credit  is involved, the PSRs make provision  for the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
to apply in place of certain  sections of the PSRs, including  those provisions which govern the 
apportionment of liability in unauthorised transactions. The relevant sections of the CCA 
here involve  a credit facility. Section  83(1)  of the CCA says Mr P wouldnt be responsible for 
any loss arising from the use of the charge card facility by another person not acting, or to be 
treated as acting, as his agent.  
But Section  83(1)  cant be read in isolation.  Section 84(2) says that Section 83 doesnt stop 
Mr P from being made liable to any extent for the loss to the bank from use of the charge 
card by a person who had it with Mr Ps consent. 
Ref: DRN28446585In this case, Mr Ps younger son had card three  with his agreement and Section 84(2) is 
potentially applicable.  So I have  gone on to think about whether it is was the younger sons 
use of the card that caused the banks loss in a way that falls under that Section. 
Its accepted that card three was cloned when Mr Ps younger son used it to make a genuine 
transaction. But it was that use of the card that led to the card details being stolen and used 
by fraudsters. Although,  that was not the consequence that was intended by Mr Ps younger 
son (or by Mr P himself)  because it was a fraud on them and the bank, I do think the 
situation comes under  section 84(2) because the banks loss does seem  to me to have been 
caused by the younger sons use of the card.  So I dont think  the CCA operates  to protect 
Mr P from liability in these circumstances. 
 
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances? 
As an ombudsman, I am able to reach a decision that departs from a strict application  of the 
relevant law where it is fair and reasonable to do so. Ive thought  about whether  the 
requirements of fairness mean that I should do so in this case.  
Ive thought carefully about the positions of both sides  and who should bear the loss. Its 
unfortunate that card three was cloned.  This was completely outside of Mr Ps control. But it 
would be unfair  of me to suggest  that the bank should have to stand some or all of the loss 
when it hasnt done anything wrong. 
Most people  know, or ought reasonably to know, that they must  take reasonable steps to 
keep their cards and PINs  safe.  I can appreciate that Mr P trusted his younger son and 
wouldnt have wanted him to be that far away from home without a card.  But I have to 
consider his actions  against what a reasonable person would  be expected to do in his 
position. There is a risk of a loss that flows  from sharing a card and PIN. Im unable to fairly 
overlook the fact Mr P didnt comply  with his obligations when he shared card three.  Ive not 
seen any exceptional  reasons why sharing card three was the most appropriate thing for him 
to have done at that time. 
The bank has suggested Mr P and his eldest  son behaved recklessly and dishonestly  when 
returning the signed disputed transaction report because they didnt clearly explain card 
three had been  given  to Mr Ps younger son and gave the impression that card three was in 
the elder sons wallet. Having reviewed the form, it looks like the bank filled in most of the 
details whilst speaking to Mr P on the phone. The change in handwriting  suggests  all that 
Mr Ps eldest  son did was sign and date the form when it was received. There wasnt much  
detail included about the surrounding circumstances and nothing to suggest the disputed 
transactions had happened whilst  card three  was in the possession  of Mr Ps younger son. 
I agree  it would have  been helpful  if Mr P and his eldest son had clarified  the key details  at 
the earliest opportunity. Its unclear why they would have been reluctant to do so, especially 
as they thought Handelsbanken had agreed  card three could  be used by the younger sibling. 
But Im also mindful that by signing the form, Mr Ps eldest son was declaring that he didnt  
take part in the disputed  transactions  and neither did anyone else who hed authorised to 
use the card. Given everyone accepts the disputed transactions were carried  out by a 
fraudster, that wasnt  an incorrect statement for him to have made. 
But Mr P did breach his account terms and caused  the banks loss, which  could have been 
greater had the bank not intervened  when it did to stop the attempted spending. So I am 
currently persuaded that Handelsbanken is fairly entitled to hold Mr P liable for the disputed  
transactions in this case. 
Ref: DRN28446586responses to my provisional  decision  
Handelsbanken confirmed it had received the provisional decision and had nothing  further to 
add. 
Mr P did not respond to my provisional  decision. Our investigator tried to contact him using 
details which  had previously been  successful but did not receive a response.
As the deadline  for the parties  to respond has expired, the complaint has been passed back 
to me.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent me any new information to consider  or provided any further 
commentary on the substance of what I said in my provisional decision.  On that basis, I see 
no reason to change  the conclusions I provisionally reached.
In my provisional decision,  I said that Mr P had breached the accounts terms and conditions  
by giving his younger son card three  to use, which caused the banks loss. I was satisfied 
that the terms and conditions  allowed Handelsbanken to recover the loss it suffered  from 
Mr P. I then considered the relevant law and didnt think the CCA protected Mr P from 
liability in these circumstances.  I wasnt persuaded there were any exceptional 
circumstances why it would be fair to reach  a different  conclusion.  
So for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and that I have summarised  again  
above, I think Handelsbanken is fairly entitled to hold Mr P liable for the disputed 
transactions in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2844658