K820x#14complaint
Miss Rs complaint is about the amount of compensation Shop Direct  Finance Company 
Limited (Shop Direct)  paid to settle her complaint about the mis-sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy sold with her home shopping account.
Miss Rs complaint is also about  Shop  Direct using some of the compensation to reduce the 
amount of arrears owed  to the account.
background
Miss R was sold a PPI policy in 2010.  In 2015 Shop  Direct  made an offer to settle  Miss Rs 
complaint about  the PPI policy It said it would put Miss R in the position shed have been in 
had the PPI policy not been sold to her. This included  a refund of the PPI premiums  
charged, additional  losses caused by the PPI and simple interest  to compensate  Miss R for 
being out of pocket.
Shop Direct worked out that Miss Rs compensation  totalled  £1341.90.
It offered  Miss R £574.07  via cheque, and the remaining  £767.83 was used to reduce the 
arrears Miss R had on the account.
Miss R didnt think the compensation was enough. Shes told us she has some statements 
showing she paid over £65 per month for the PPI and remembers using the account to buy 
expensive items. So Miss R thought she had paid more towards PPI.
Miss R also didnt think it was fair Shop Direct cleared the arrears  owed to the account 
without giving her the choice.
Our adjudicator thought the compensation offered by Shop Direct was fair. They also 
thought it was fair for Shop Direct to use some of the compensation to reduce what  Miss R 
owed to the account.
Miss R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint, so it has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to note that there  was a concern about whether our service could look at 
this complaint. But I see that Shop  Direct has since confirmed that it doesnt object to us 
looking at Miss Rs complaint.
Shop Direct has agreed to settle Miss Rs PPI complaint.  So in this decision I wont be 
commenting on how the policy came to be sold as thats no longer in dispute.  Within this 
decision I will look at whether the offer of compensation  Shop Direct  made  Miss R is fair; and 
whether it was fair for Shop Direct to use part of the compensation  to reduce the arrears on 
the account.
Ref: DRN28797342I understand Miss R will be disappointed but I think Shop Direct has acted fairly. Its offer in 
June 2015 is a fair way to resolve Miss Rs complaint. Id like to take this opportunity to 
explain why.
did Shop  Direct work out the compensation fairly?
Ive looked at the way Shop Direct  has approached calculating Miss Rs offer.
When a business  agrees  to settle  a PPI complaint it should, as far as possible,  put the 
consumer in the position they would be in had they not had the PPI policy.  
For a PPI policy with a home shopping  account,  Id expect Shop Direct to compare what 
happened on Miss Rs account with what might  have happened if the PPI had not been 
charged each month. This is to see what effect the PPI had on the account  and what  
additional costs  were caused by the PPI.
Id then expect  Shop Direct to refund all the PPI premiums, any related interest and any 
extra fees caused by the addition of the PPI. And if Miss R was out of pocket at any time 
because of the extra cost of the PPI then she should  receive  simple  interest  at 8% to 
compensate her for being  out of pocket.
Shop Direct have  provided me with a calculation  of Miss Rs offer,  Miss Rs full statement 
history and other evidence that confirms when the PPI started and ended.
The information shows that Miss Rs account started in July 2008 and the first time PPI was 
charged was in December 2010. Miss R was then charged each month up to and including  
April 2013. After this, there  are no more PPI premiums charged.
Miss R was concerned  that at points she was charged over £65 per month for the PPI- so 
she thinks her offer should be higher.  But as Ive explained, Shop Direct has all of Miss Rs 
statement information  so it knows exactly what she was charged  each month  for PPI.
I would also like to add that the amount charged  each month for PPI depends  on how much  
the outstanding balance  was each month.  When the outstanding balance was higher,  the 
PPI premium was also higher. The statement  information shows what  Miss R was charged 
for PPI every  month. There were some  months  the PPI was as low as £5.26 and other 
months where it was as high as £69.83. 
Having looked  at Shop Directs offer I can see that it has refunded all of the PPI premiums 
Miss R was charged to her account.  
The statement  information  also shows that no interest was ever added to the account so 
there was no PPI related interest  for Shop Direct to refund to Miss R.
 
Shop Direct has also refunded £214 for additional losses it says were caused by the PPI. 
The statement  information  suggests Miss R has been refunded  nearly two thirds  of all the 
fees ever charged  to the account  so I think Shop Directs offer is fair in this respect. 
Ref: DRN28797343Shop Direct only included  a small amount of compensatory  interest. This compensation is for 
the times  when Miss R was out of pocket. I can see that Miss R always had a balance  owing 
and then later on, arrears  too. Having looked at the effect the PPI had, once PPI is removed, 
Miss Rs account wouldnt  have ever gone  into credit  she still owed a balance to 
Shop Direct. So Miss R wasnt ever out of pocket because of the PPI. Shop Direct  did pay 
9p compensation when it looks like it didnt have to pay anything.  
All things  considered I think Shop  Directs  offer of compensation is fair and includes 
everything I would  expect to see. 
was it fair to use the compensation to clear arrears?
Miss R has said shes  unhappy she wasnt given a choice about  using some  of the 
compensation to reduce the arrears owed to the account in 2015. 
The evidence shows that Miss R was behind with her payments, and as of June 2015, this 
was by £767.83. Shop Direct  used  some of the £1,341.90 compensation it owed to Miss R to 
clear the arrears, and it paid her the remaining  £574.07. 
I understand Miss R would have liked to have been  given  the choice. But Shop Direct owed 
Miss R an amount (the compensation it owed her for PPI) and Miss R owed Shop Direct an 
amount (as her account was in arrears). So both parties owed each other money  relating to 
the same  account.  So I think  it is fair that one amount is offset against the other. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. As the compensation has 
already been paid,  theres nothing further for Shop Direct to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879734