K820x#14complaint
Union Reiseversicherung  AG (URV) declined two claims Mr M made  under his travel 
insurance policy.
background
Mr M travelled by train from his home  to Cardiff (where  his travel companion lived), from 
where he was planning  to travel to Bristol airport. He checked his belongings and realised 
his passport was missing.  Hes unsure precisely where the passport was lost, but his best 
guess is that it was on the train to Cardiff. He made a claim with URV for the costs  he 
incurred in replacing his passport. Ill refer to this as the passport claim.
Mr M had to change his original travel  plans because of the lost passport.  He eventually flew 
from Bristol to Amsterdam on 16 January, and was then due to fly from Amsterdam  to Miami 
on 18 January. The airline Mr M was due to travel with from Amsterdam to Miami cancelled 
the flight. Mr M incurred  additional costs staying in Amsterdam  for another  three days. He 
also lost out on accommodation hed pre-paid in Miami (and in Mexico  City, which  was his 
destination after Miami).  He made a claim with URV for those costs  and losses.  Ill refer to 
this as the flight claim.
URV declined both claims.  It said the passport claim wasnt  covered  because Mr M lost the 
passport before his trip had started. It said the flight  claim wasnt covered because the policy  
only covered the initial  international departure from the UK.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why I didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of that decision are detailed below.
the original travel plans
Mr Ms original  travel  plans werent  clear to me as things hed said didnt tally with what 
Id seen. For example,  it wasnt  clear  how long he intended staying in Cardiff before  
travelling to Bristol airport.
Mr M said Cardiff  was a stopover and he was planning to leave the next day to go to the 
airport. That meant he was originally due to fly from Bristol to Amsterdam  on 6 January  
as the train journey to Cardiff  was on 5 January. That tied in with an email Mr M sent to 
the train company on 5 January saying that he was travelling  in two days.
But Mr M also said his departure from Bristol  to Amsterdam was delayed  by a week 
because of the lost passport. As he did actually fly to Amsterdam  on 16 January, that 
meant his original planned  departure would have been around 9 January. That tied in 
with part of Mr Ms claim for money  hed paid for a lounge at Bristol Airport that was 
booked for 10 January.
So I thought  there  were clear discrepancies:
oif Mr Ms original departure was planned for 6 January it wasnt  clear why his claim 
included costs he incurred for an airport lounge at Bristol  on 10 January  he 
wouldnt have been at Bristol airport 10 January
Ref: DRN21324172oif on the other hand Mr Ms original departure date was planned for 10 January it 
wasnt clear why he told us he only intended  staying in Cardiff for the one night. Was 
he actually planning to stay in Cardiff  for five nights?
I put this to Mr M and his response  was along the lines of not sure, cant  remember;  it 
may have been a mistake; I think dates have  been  mixed  up somewhere. I didnt think  
this explanation was satisfactory  and it didnt clear  things up.
I also noted that a lounge  at Amsterdam airport had been booked for 14 January, which 
suggested that Mr M had originally  planned  to spend a few days  in Amsterdam  before 
departing for Miami. Mr M confirmed that was indeed  the case.
As I hadnt received sufficient clarification from Mr M of his original travel  plans, I said I 
would base my decision  on what I thought  they most likely were  based on what Id seen 
in the file. In that regard, I concluded that Mr M was originally due to fly:
ofrom Bristol to Amsterdam on 10 January  I thought it very unlikely he would have 
booked the lounge for 10 January  if he was flying on 6 January. This in turn meant  he 
intended staying  in Cardiff for more than the one night or he intended staying 
elsewhere up until 10 January; and
ofrom Amsterdam to Miami on 14 January  I thought it very unlikely he would  have 
booked the lounge for 14 January  if he was flying on another day.
I explained that if my conclusion was incorrect I was prepared to consider any 
documentation Mr M provided in response  to my provisional decision showing what  the 
original travel plans were.
the policy
The policy was in two parts  the pre-travel  policy and the travel policy.  The pre-travel 
policy started from the moment Mr M paid the premium, but the only thing covered was 
cancellation of the entire trip before it started. The travel policy,  which Mr Ms claims fell 
under, started  when  he left his home to start the trip.
the passport claim
The insurance cover for a lost passport didnt start until Mr M left his home to start his 
trip. Trip was defined in the policy as any holiday,  pleasure  trip or journey made which  
begins and ends in the policyholders home area. So a policyholders the trip essentially  
starts as soon as they leave their home to start their holiday.
I didnt think it was fair to describe Mr M leaving his home to travel  to Cardiff as being to 
start his holiday. This was because there was a clear  five day break between  him 
travelling to Cardiff and the ongoing travel to Bristol airport. In my view, although Cardiff 
isnt Mr Ms home,  a fairer  interpretation of the policy  term in this case was that the cover 
for a lost passport would have started  when Mr M left Cardiff to travel to the airport.
There was nothing  to dispute Mr Ms best guess that the passport  was lost on the train to 
Cardiff ie before the cover under the policy started. On that basis,  I concluded  that URV 
treated Mr M fairly when it declined to pay the passport claim.
Ref: DRN21324173the flight claim
The claim was considered under the missed  departure on your outward journey section 
of the policy. That said URV would pay for accommodation and travel costs  Mr M 
incurred in reaching his destination  if he arrived at the departure point too late to board 
the flight for the initial international  outbound  leg. This section  specifically excluded  
claims arising from Mr Ms failure to arrive  at the departure point in time to board any 
connecting flight after his departure on the initial international outbound  leg of the trip.
It was clear in my opinion  what was and wasnt covered. It was also clear that the initial 
international outbound  leg of Mr Ms trip was the Bristol to Amsterdam  flight on 
16 January. And Mr M didnt  miss the departure of that flight.
Mr M argued  that his initial destination was Miami and, therefore,  that the Amsterdam to 
Miami flight was the initial  outbound  leg. I disagreed.  As Mr M spent some time in 
Amsterdam before the flight  to Miami, using his logic it was arguable that Amsterdam 
was his initial destination. In any event, Amsterdam isnt in the United Kingdom. So a 
flight from Amsterdam to Miami couldnt  possibly be the initial  international outbound leg.
On that basis, I concluded  that URV  treated Mr M fairly when it declined to pay the flight  
claim.
mis-sale
Some of Mr Ms arguments concerned the sale of the policy.  As the policy  was sold by a 
different business,  and wasnt therefore URVs responsibility, I didnt consider those 
arguments or this issue.
responses to my provisional  decision
I didnt hear anything further  from either  URV or Mr M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider,  my final decision remains as outlined  in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2132417