K820x#14complaint
G is a limited company.  It complains that Clydesdale Bank  Plc mis-sold it a fixed  rate 
business loan.
background
In March 2007 G took a 15-year variable rate business loan for £302,000 from Clydesdale. 
In July 2007 it was agreed that £100,000 of this borrowing would be put on a fixed interest 
rate for seven years.  The fixed rate agreement  ran its course  and in 2014  the £100,000  
reverted to a variable rate. The other  borrowing remained on a variable rate throughout.
In 2018 G complained about the fixed rate agreement. The company  said that in 2007 
Clydesdale hadnt  given enough  information  about the features and risks of the fixed  rate. In 
particular, G said the bank hadnt  fully explained  the potential  costs of ending  the fixed rate 
early. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary, he gave  
the following  reasons:
The evidence didnt  suggest that that hedging  was a condition  of granting the loan.
He thought it likely that Gs directors had been  aware that a break cost could be 
payable if they chose to exit the fixed rate before expiry, but he didnt think  the bank 
made them fully aware  of the potential magnitude of the cost.
However, he thought  it was unlikely that G would have done anything differently if the 
bank had provided sufficient information at the time of the sale.  In his view, the 
directors broadly understood the product and had no apparent  concerns during its 
lifetime. Two-thirds of Gs borrowing remained on a variable rate, which gave the 
company flexibility to repay a large part of the loan without incurring any break  cost.  
And the adjudicator thought seven years was a reasonable fixed rate term for a 
business of Gs type. He thought G would  have seen it as a good balance between  
interest rate protection and flexibility.
G didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions. On Gs behalf,  its representative  made 
these points, in summary:
The lack of sufficient  information extended to either a misrepresentation by the bank 
that entering into the fixed rate was mandatory, or at least  failing to adequately inform  
G that fixing the loan wasnt  an absolute requirement.
The bank  failed  to inform G of the additional fees being charged by the bank for the 
fixed rate loan  these  costs and charges were rolled into the rate. 
Part of the security  taken by the bank  included the directors personal  residence. If 
this was a first legal  charge, it would put the bank in breach of the disclosure and 
suitability rules  for residential  mortgages, as set out in the Financial Conduct  
Authoritys Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB).
As a result  of these events the debt didnt amortise to nil as had been the intention.  
Much of the directors emphasis had been on retirement planning. Once the lending 
Ref: DRN24914342had come to an end, instead of debt free assets, G was left with significant 
borrowings on the assets
Had all these matters been explained to G, the directors  wouldnt have agreed to 
take the loan on the terms sold. Although a seven-year fixed rate loan may not 
appear unreasonable, it wasnt  appropriate given the circumstances of the directors 
and noting their retirement planning.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Im sorry  to tell G that I 
agree with the adjudicators conclusions,  and for much the same  reasons.
I havent seen  any evidence that Clydesdale  either  misled Gs directors into believing  that 
fixing the rate was a condition of lending, or negligently allowed the directors to believe it 
was a condition.  In any event, I agree with the adjudicator that if Gs directors had been able 
to make a fully informed  choice, its likely  they would still have taken the seven-year fix.
As regards  the banks  representation of what the companys regular  payments  would  be for 
the fixed rate loan,  its my view that G was told enough to allow it make an informed choice. 
G knew what it would pay and I think it would  have been obvious that, at the outset, the 
interest rate was higher  than the rate the company was paying on its variable rate loan. Im 
satisfied that the bank  acted fairly  and reasonably  when it informed G how much the fixed 
rate loan would  cost.
In my view the bank wasnt required to treat Gs business loan as if it were subject to the 
disclosure and suitability  rules in MCOB. For the loan to be subject to MCOB rules, the 
borrower would need  to be an individual  and the loan would need to be secured on land at 
least 40% of which  was used as a dwelling by the borrower or a member of their family. The 
borrower here was G, a limited company, which wasnt an individual and used no dwelling, 
and the loan was therefore not subject to MCOB rules. The directors were not the borrowers. 
According to the loan facility agreement in March 2007, the directors were  required to give a 
personal guarantee for Gs borrowing, supported by security over their home. As it wasnt  a 
loan, the guarantee wouldnt be subject to MCOB rules. 
I note that Clydesdale says the security wasnt actually taken and registered in the name of 
the bank, so there was never  a charge on the directors home anyway. But even if the 
charge had been taken, Im satisfied that the bank  wasnt obliged, when accepting the 
guarantee, to apply  the disclosure and suitability rules in MCOB.
Turning to the matter  of the loan amortisation,  I note that in March 2007 the company agreed 
that the variable  rate loan would be repaid  over 15 years. The loan amortisation was set up 
so that the balance would reach nil in 2022.  In July 2007, £100,000 of the existing loan was 
moved to the fixed rate, which would after seven  years revert back to the variable rate for the 
remainder of the original  15-year term. The loan balance  would  therefore  have reached nil in 
2022 and no earlier, with or without  the seven-year  fixed rate. In other words, I dont think 
the fixed rate was responsible for the amortisation by which the balance of the loan would 
reach nil in 2022. So I dont think the fixed rate prevented G from being debt-free when the 
company sought  to pay off the loan.
Ref: DRN24914343Gs representative argues  that the fixed rate crystallised the problem so that there would  be 
no option to amend the loan or make a capital reduction without the potential  for 
considerable break costs. But I note that two-thirds of the borrowing remained on a variable 
rate and therefore didnt carry any break  cost risk. Ive seen no evidence that G sought 
during the fixed  rate period to make  any capital reduction or to change the amortisation in 
respect of any of its borrowing. So Im not persuaded that the fixed  rate thwarted any plans 
by G to repay its borrowing earlier than originally agreed.
Gs representative also argues that the lending agreed  in March 2007  was presumably what 
G wanted and was appropriate  to its needs, so the burden of proof  should  lie with the bank 
to provide justification for the change to the fixed rate in July 2007. But Ive already said that 
if Gs directors had been able to make  a fully informed choice about the matter, I believe 
they would  still have taken the seven-year  fix, for the reasons given by the adjudicator and 
summarised above. I therefore dont require the bank  to provide any further  justification  for 
the fixed rate agreement.
For all the above  reasons,  I dont require Clydesdale to pay G any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2491434