K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a store card. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  this complaint. Mr B 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B says the PPI was added without his knowledge and consent and he wouldve 
declined the PPI if hed been  made  aware of it. But Ive seen a copy of the store card 
application form Mr B saw and signed. In this there was a section for PPI where  Mr B 
signed to agree  to the cover. And this signature  is separate  and additional to his 
signature to agree  to the card. So based on what Ive seen  I think  FICL made it clear that 
Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ref: DRN23927222ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392722