K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  Miss 
S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
background and summary to complaint
Briefly:
In 1997 Miss S took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying  for a high street store  card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided  protection for Miss S store card payments in the event she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy  would pay out 
15% of the outstanding account balance each month upon a successful claim and it cost no 
more than £1.00 for every £100  Miss S owed  on the card.
At the time of the sale Miss S told us she was employed as a shop assistant and she was 
entitled to less than three  months  sick pay and around the same amount in redundancy 
pay. She said she had no other means  she couldve used to make her repayments in the 
event she was unable  to work. Miss S has said she was in good health  at the time of the 
sale.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available  evidence showed that Miss S chose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was fundamentally wrong or inappropriate  for her.
Because Miss S, through her representative disagrees the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Miss S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Miss S have a choice  about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
AXA had to make  it clear that PPI was optional.
AXA has provided a copy of Miss S store card application. Looking  at this I can see there 
was a separate section about  PPI, which required  a customer to tick a box if they wanted to 
take out PPI. And in Miss S case she ticked the box. This section didnt say or imply that 
Miss S had to have  PPI, so if she didnt  want  the cover she couldve left this section blank.
Ref: DRN29528732So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Miss S knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
the information   
AXA says it didnt recommend or give advice to Miss S to take out PPI. Miss S hasnt said 
either way. Looking at what  happened  in Miss S case, Ive not seen anything to show or 
suggest that AXA considered Miss S circumstances and/or recommended  the cover.
So AXA didnt have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Miss S. But it did have to 
give her enough  clear and timely information  about  the policy, so she could make an 
informed decision about it.
Given the available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave  Miss S about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  For example  I think its unlikely the true cost of 
the cover  was explained and the fact the premiums could attract interest,  or that the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  were clearly brought  to her attention.  
But as I found  above, Miss S chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesnt appear that it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her - for example  she was eligible for the cover; 
she wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover  such as those  
relating to existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her 
existing means it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Miss S off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have  done everything it should  fairly  and reasonably have done when it 
sold Miss S PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think  shed have still gone ahead  
and taken out PPI in any event.
This means  I dont  think Miss S has lost out as a result of having  PPI, so AXA doesnt have 
to pay back to Miss S what  she paid for PPI.
Miss S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says applies to all PPI complaints.  
These general points  include: a claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss S individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN29528733I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss S particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2952873