K820x#14complaint
Miss W complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card, in 1999. 
background
One of our adjudicators has said her complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Miss W asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W says she has no memory of agreeing to buy the PPI and wouldnt ever have agreed 
to it if given the choice.  However, the sale was a long time ago and Ive seen the postal 
application form Miss W used. Theres a question on it asking her to choose  whether she 
wants this type of policy. Miss W ticked the yes box and so in my view this document does 
clearly demonstrate that Miss W must  have  wanted  the policy at the time. And because she 
specifically selected  the cover, its clear to me that she consented  to the PPI.
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. But Capital One still had a 
responsibility to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
My experience of these  Capital One postal  sales, from that time period, is that the 
application form was accompanied by some information about the terms and conditions. And 
I note Miss W was prompted on the form to read through these. As she most probably  filled 
in the form in her own time without any input from Capital One,  I think  she probably  had 
enough information and time in which to make  her own informed  choice. 
I can certainly see how Capital One could have  made improvements to the application  form 
to make it clearer.  But Im afraid  this doesnt change how I view the case and I still think she 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to her wanting  the cover. I also think Miss W was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  exclusions we tend to see in these 
types of policy. The cost of the PPI was 69p for every £100 of balance  outstanding on her 
credit card and I dont think this would  have been  unaffordable for her.
Miss W would have  probably benefitted from some sick pay with her job. But as Ive already 
said, this wasnt an advised sale, so the choice  about having PPI was for her to make.  In the 
event of a successful claim, the policy wouldve paid off 10% of her outstanding balance for 
up to a year and I think this is most likely why she specifically chose to have PPI when she 
filled out her application form. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I can see how the cover was of use to her.
Ref: DRN28748112my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Capital  One (Europe) plc to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2874811