K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Close Brothers  Limited  refused his request to reject  a car.
background
In early October 2017 Mr P bought a second  hand pick up truck which was some 10 years 
old. Within a short time Mr P says he identified a number of faults.  He didnt think  the truck 
had been serviced  properly  and the timing  belt hadnt  been replaced as agreed. He said 
water was coming in and the suspension collapsed shortly after he bought it. He believed the 
clutch and brakes were worn, also the seats, gear knob and steering wheel cover  were worn. 
He concluded  the vehicle  wasnt  fit for purpose.
The truck was subject to an independent  inspection and that concluded  the fault with the 
suspension was probably present at the point of sale. This was repaired by a garage of Mr 
Ps choice  and Close Brothers met the cost which exceeded £1,000.  Various tests  were 
carried out to identify the cause of the water ingress,  but no problem  could be identified. It 
was thought that it might be via the kick plate or the rubber seals,  but no clear answer could 
be found. Clos Brothers  indicated it would cover the repair of a fault if one could be identified  
which had been  present  at the point  of sale.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that the truck was 10 years old 
and many of the issues of which Mr P had complained were likely  to be matters  of wear and 
tear.
She said the independent repost said the timing belt appeared new,  as did the fuel and oil 
filters which suggested the truck  had been  serviced;  although perhaps not thoroughly as it 
might have been.
She mentioned the concerns Mr P had expressed about the clutch and pointed  out that the 
truck had passed  a MOT  in November 2018. That suggested the brakes and clutch  may 
need to be replaced in due course,  but given the age of the vehicle it was more likely than 
not that would be down  to wear and tear.
She didnt  think the worn  internal fittings could be said to be grounds for rejecting the truck. 
As for the water ingress she noted neither the independent inspector nor Mr Ps garage had 
been able to identify the point of entry. She suggested Mr P obtained a diagnostic  report  to 
identify the fault and if this was something which could  be repaired she would ask Close 
Brothers to do that.
Mr P didnt agree and said the truck was still leaking and his tool and clothes had been 
ruined. He said he had complained about  the leak not long after he took delivery and since 
he couldnt use it for work as his equipment would get wet. He said that this meant it wasnt 
fit for purpose.  He thought the dampness  had caused some of the interior fittings  to wear 
excessively. 
Ref: DRN27044562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers are also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The vehicle in question  is a working  truck and after 10 years  one would expect  it to suffer  
from a fair degree of wear and tear. To that end I believe that many  of the issues which Mr P 
has encountered  are down to wear and tear. This has been confirmed by the independent 
report. As such I am satisfied that the issues with the brakes,  clutch and interior fittings were 
most likely to be due to wear and tear. 
That report  concluded the suspension  fault was present at the point of sale and Close 
Brothers paid for it to be repaired. I have noted that it agreed to let this be done by a garage 
of Mr Ps choice when I would normally expect the selling garage to be allowed to do the 
work. I gather Close Brothers forewent two months  payments and offered a third plus 
compensation of £100.
The issue  of the leak is problematic  and I can appreciate Mr Ps frustration.  I agree that the 
truck should be fit for purpose  and it is reasonable for it to be leak free. However, Close 
Brothers and the selling garage have the right of repair,  but since no fault can be found then 
no repair can be effected. In the circumstances I dont consider that it merits rejection. 
As such I agree with the adjudicator that I cannot  direct Clos Brother to ensure a repair is 
made to something  which as yet not identified.  It remains open to Mr P to have the truck 
inspected again  and if a fault is found he can then take the problem back  to Close Brothers.  
As the cause is as yet not identified  I cannot direct the business to do anything  at this time.
Ref: DRN27044563my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
18 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2704456