K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Sanlam Life & Pensions 
UK Limited  (Sanlam) to start two Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution  
(FSAVC) plans and a savings plan. He believes all three plans were unsuitable for his 
circumstances and led to him suffering a financial loss. 
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
background to this complaint
During 1989 and 1990,  Sanlam advised  Mr H to start two FSAVC plans and a savings plan. 
The savings plan had a 29 year term to 2018 and a £240 yearly contribution invested in a 
managed fund. The plan included life cover for £5,400 to make  it qualifying for tax purposes  
so that the maturity proceeds would be tax-free.
In 2000, Mr H wrote to Sanlam to surrender  his savings  plan.  He stated the charges  were  
excessive and that these hadnt  been disclosed at the outset. Sanlam didnt treat Mr Hs 
comments about the charges as a complaint, so his concerns went unanswered at that time. 
He received a surrender value of £3,233.90.
In 2018, the CMC, on behalf of Mr H, complained to Sanlam about the suitability of the 
advice to start the two FSAVC plans and savings plan. The CMC stated, in summary, that:
The FSAVC plans  were unsuitable because they led to Mr H incurring higher  charges 
than compared  to the alternative in-house  AVC plan available  through membership of 
his workplace pension  scheme;  and
The savings plan was unsuitable because the 29 year term was incompatible  with 
Mr Hs circumstances and the medium term referenced in Sanlams fact find 
document.
Sanlam didnt accept  this complaint because,  in its opinion,  it was made outside the time 
limit rules  that apply  to this service. In Sanlams view, Mr H hadnt complained within three  
years from the date on which he became aware,  or ought reasonably  to have become 
aware, that he had cause  for complaint. The CMC didnt agree so referred  the matter  to us.
After considering the evidence, our adjudicator told Sanlam he hadnt seen any evidence 
Mr H was put on the path to awareness  of complaint more than three years before it was 
referred to us in 2018. So he concluded this complaint  had been  made  in time under our 
rules and that we could  consider it. Sanlam  ultimately agreed.  
Our adjudicator recommended  this complaint be partially upheld, as follows:
FSAVC plans  our adjudicator concluded  the advice to start the two FSAVC plans 
was unsuitable  because the alternative, lower  cost in-house  AVC plan wasnt  
adequately disclosed,  preventing Mr H from making an informed decision. So he 
upheld this part of Mr Hs complaint.  He concluded Mr H had a medium  attitude to 
risk and so was prepared to accept some investment risk. To put things right, our 
adjudicator recommended that Sanlam conduct a charges-only  redress calculation  in 
line with the FSAVC review guidance.
Ref: DRN22024312Savings plan  our adjudicator concluded the advice to start the savings plan was 
suitable based on Mr Hs circumstances  which showed he was willing and able to 
accept investment risk and afford  the £240  yearly  contribution.  So he didnt uphold  
this part of Mr Hs complaint.
Trouble and upset  - our adjudicator recommended Sanlam pay Mr H £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset  suffered  in the process of bringing this 
complaint to us.
Sanlam accepted all of our adjudicators findings  and recommendations. While the CMC 
accepted the findings  and recommendations about the FSAVC plans and trouble and upset 
payment, it didnt accept  the outcome on the savings plan. The CMC stated, in summary, 
that:
When the savings  plan started, Mr H was aged 34 with an interest  only mortgage. 
Although the plan may have been  affordable at the time, it was highly likely Mr Hs 
circumstances would  change over the 29 year term, as evidenced by the fact he 
surrendered it early in 2000; and
Mr Hs needs could  have been met by a shorter term plan and so it was unsuitable to 
advise him to commit to a 29 year term plan.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion. So this complaint has been  referred  
to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issues previously resolved and scope of this final decision
Sanlam previously agreed that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction and is one we can 
consider. In addition,  both Sanlam and the CMC, on behalf of Mr H, agree with our 
adjudicators findings  and recommendations about the two FSAVC plans and trouble and 
upset payment. So there isnt any need  for me to consider these specific  issues further, 
although, for completeness, Ive set out at the end of this decision what Sanlam should do to 
settle these matters.
All that remains is for me to decide  the part of Mr Hs complaint about the suitability of the 
advice to start the savings plan.
Suitability of the savings plan
The advice to start the plan was in 1989.  With this sort of case,  where advice was given 
many years ago, its difficult to know what was discussed at the time. Memories  will have 
faded and what  evidence there  is might  be incomplete.
Ref: DRN22024313As part of the advice  process, Sanlams adviser completed a fact find document  which  
recorded Mr Hs circumstances as follows:
He was aged 34, married and employed as a personnel manager earning £22,000 
per year;
He and his wife had significant surplus income  after outgoings;
The marital  home was valued at £110,000 with a £60,000 endowment mortgage;
He had £19,500 cash deposits;
He had two existing savings plans with a total yearly contribution of £600; and
A handwritten note stated his savings aim was to build  up medium term capital for 
future needs.
The CMC says the 29 year term of the plan was incompatible with the medium  term 
referenced in the fact find and that Mr Hs circumstances over such  a long term were likely to 
change, rendering the plan unsuitable.
Based on Mr Hs recorded circumstances, I conclude he was financially able to accept the 
investment risks associated with the savings plan and, based on his investment history,  had 
the necessary  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. Im satisfied he 
was content to invest in a managed fund given his experience.
With regard to Mr Hs savings aim, its clear he wanted to build up a lump  sum for an 
unspecified use at a later date. Why else would he commit to investing £240 every year? 
Given the CMCs concerns, the critical question I need  to answer is whether the 29 year 
term reflected Mr Hs aim and expectation.  The handwritten note in the fact find states  
Mr Hs aim was to build  up medium term capital for future needs. But it doesnt specify  
what this meant in terms of investment timescale. The meaning of medium  term  can mean 
a number of different things depending on how it is contextualised. 
Attached to the fact find is a handwritten diagram, presumably  created by the adviser. I 
consider this diagram  to be compelling  evidence. It includes a timeline referencing short, 
medium and long term. Based on my interpretation,  medium term is shown roughly as the 
period before age 65 and long term as only starting from that point.
So, in this context,  the sale of a 29 year term plan with a maturity date before the plan 
holders 65th birthday falls within medium term on the diagram.  I note Mr H would have been 
aged 63 on maturity  of the savings  plan. So, in his case, the 29 year term is consistent with 
the stated savings aim to build up medium term capital for future  needs.
I have no reason to believe Mr H wasnt part of the discussion  when the diagram was 
created. So I conclude he would have understood medium term to mean the period before 
age 65, as indicated on the diagram. Furthermore,  the plan schedule sent to Mr H showed 
the £240 yearly  contribution was payable  for a 29 year term to 2018.
Ref: DRN22024314Taking everything into account,  I consider  the term of the plan reflected  Mr Hs aim and 
expectation. I cannot reach any other  conclusion based on the contemporaneous evidence. 
That Mr Hs circumstances may have  subsequently  changed doesnt mean the plan was 
unsuitable from the outset if those changes  werent  reasonably foreseeable. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Sanlams  adviser could have reasonably  foreseen  in 1989 that 
Mr H would surrender the savings  plan early in 2000.
Surrendering the savings plan
When Mr H wrote to Sanlam in 2000  to surrender  the savings  plan he didnt mention the 
29 year term or his ability to pay the yearly contribution.  This supports my view that he was 
content with the term. Rather, he stated he was surrendering the plan due to his 
dissatisfaction about the charges. Sanlam cannot  be held responsible for Mr Hs decision  to 
surrender the plan early in 2000  and any financial loss flowing  from this.
Mr Hs previous expression of dissatisfaction
When Mr H surrendered the plan in 2000, he provided comments to Sanlam that, in my view,  
should have been treated as a complaint  at that time. But I dont think  this failing changes 
anything. Based on my findings  above,  I dont think Sanlam would have upheld a complaint  
had it investigated  it sooner.  So Mr H is in the same financial position  as he is now. Im 
satisfied that Sanlams agreement to pay Mr H £250  for the trouble and upset  suffered  in the 
process of bringing  this complaint to us adequately compensates him for its failing in 2000.
Conclusion
I havent seen  any evidence Sanlam made an error  or treated Mr H unfairly in respect of the 
advice to start the savings plan. I consider the recommendation was suitable for the reasons 
explained above. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
me to require Sanlam  to pay Mr H compensation or to take any other  action in response to 
this part of his complaint.
settling redress on the FSAVC plans
In respect of Mr Hs two FSAVC plans,  I direct Sanlam to undertake a redress  calculation in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC  review guidance, incorporating the amendment 
below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property  index isnt available  
for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view, the FTSE UK Private Investor  Growth Total Return  Index provides the closest  
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 
1 January 2005, Sanlam should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 
1 January 2005 and the FTSE  UK Private Investor  Growth Total Return Index  thereafter.
Ref: DRN22024315If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should,  if possible, be paid 
into Mr Hs FSAVC plan. The payment should  allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the FSAVC plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the FSAVC plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. Of the loss identified, 25% 
would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed  according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  which  I have decided should be presumed to be 20%. So making a notional  
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately  reflects  this.
In addition, I direct Sanlam to pay Mr H £250  compensation  for the trouble and upset  that 
hes suffered in the process of bringing his complaint  to us, as recommended  by our 
adjudicator.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited  must  calculate and pay 
compensation due to Mr H as set out above  in respect of the FSAVC plans, and trouble and 
upset payment. Details of the FSAVC redress calculation must be provided to Mr H in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202431