K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained that TSB Bank  Plc wont refund transactions, which  he says he didnt 
make.
Mrs H, his wife, represents him.
Background
Mr H received a text message from TSB on 30 September 2018, asking if hed made an 
internet payment to ASDA for over £500. He replied that he hadnt.  He checked his account 
later that day and saw transactions,  which he said he didnt recognise but he didnt contact  
TSB until 16 October 2018.
It transpired that between 9 April 2018 and 16 October 2018,  there  were  multiple  
transactions, worth approximately £4,000.  All transactions,  but one, were made online with 
Mr Hs card details.  These included payments for daily car insurance cover, which  wasnt  
taken out in Mr Hs name. One transaction was made in an Asda store with Mr Hs card and 
PIN.
Mr H raised a fraud complaint with TSB and asked for a refund. He told the bank that he 
always kept the card in his possession and didnt consent to anyone else using it.
TSB decided  not to refund him. It concluded  that hed authorised the transactions  because:- 
he hadnt lost his debit card
he said the card was always in his possession  and no-one else had permission to 
use it
hed memorised the PIN and hadnt  kept a written note of it
his card details were used to make the transactions
his card and PIN were used for the ASDA payment
the spending pattern wasnt consistent  with fraudulent activity
his evidence was inconsistent  he said some transactions were fraudulent but later 
confirmed they were genuine
there were genuine transactions  between  the disputed transactions.
Mr H wasnt happy with TSBs decision so he asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his case but didnt uphold  his complaint. In summary,  she 
concluded it was more likely that hed authorised the transactions based largely on his own 
admissions that the card was always in his possession, he hadnt  shared  his card with 
anyone and only he knew the PIN.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mrs H said theyd never bought  from some  of 
the retailers. In particular, one of them provided  daily car insurance, which they didnt need 
because they had a car insured through Motability.
Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27996022When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr H and Mrs H and TSB have  read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of my 
decision. However, I can assure them that Ive read the file, including their comments and 
evidence.
Having done so, Im afraid my review  of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  Ill 
explain why.
In short,  TSB is required  to refund unauthorised transactions. The relevant regulations,  to 
this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations  2017 (the PSRs  2017). So my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think  Mr H authorised the transactions. 
Having reviewed TSBs transaction report, Im satisfied that Mr Hs card details  were  used to 
make the internet purchases and payments.  In particular,  the name on the card, the long 
card number, expiry date and three-digit  number on the back would all have been used to 
complete the transactions.
The in-store  payment in ASDA was a chip and PIN transaction. This means Mr Hs genuine 
card was used with his PIN.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  TSB to 
hold him liable. So I also need  to think about  whether the evidence  suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr H made the transactions himself or consented  to them  being  made.
The internet  purchases  didnt  need the physical card or PIN, only the card details. So at the 
very least,  a third party  only needed  access to the card once and not repeatedly from April to 
October 2018, as TSB suggests.  
However, from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable  for TSB to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mr H hasnt provided any explanation, or described any circumstances, for how a 
third party  got hold of his card  which wouldve been in or around  April 2018. On the 
contrary, he maintains  the card was always in his possession.
There were  multiple transactions from April 2018  to October  2018.  Mr H wouldve 
been receiving  bank statements during this period. There were payments  to the car 
insurance company  in August and September and a payment of £764 to 
LastMinute.com, which he wouldve seen on the statements. However, he didnt raise 
any concerns until 16 October  2018.
TSBs  notes show that Mr H called the bank on 7 October 2018 to confirm that a 
payment to John  Lewis was genuine, after it had been  blocked. TSB said a disputed 
payment to The Range and the John Lewis payment were  made  from the same 
device, which was an i-Phone.
Ref: DRN27996023Mrs H said that the disputed transactions were made to retailers whom  they had 
never used - ASDA superstore in particular - but this retailer  appears on the joint 
account and Mr Hs sole account.
The in-store payment  to ASDA was made with the card and PIN. However,  on his 
own admission, Mr H said he kept the card in his possession and he didnt share  his 
card or PIN with anyone else. If so, then he is the only person who couldve made  
that payment.
Lastly, Mr H has been  inconsistent by changing  the list of disputed transactions- 
admitting to some which  he originally  said hed never made.
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the transactions   
either by making  them himself or by allowing  someone to use his card.  I think  its fair and 
reasonable, therefore, for TSB to refuse a refund of the disputed  transactions.
I understand Mrs Hs frustrations that the retailers hold useful information  about who placed  
the orders and delivery  addresses.  However, all the retailers can do is confirm  or deny if 
Mr H made  the purchases. If a purchase wasnt made in his name, then they cant tell us 
who did place an order because of the data protection laws. We have no powers  to compel  
them to disclose this information. Similarly, they cant discuss  the payment with Mrs H. Mr H 
is the cardholder  and only he can speak to the retailers.
Im very sorry to send  such disappointing news but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799602