K821xAXA15complaint
Mr C complained that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company declined his claim on his 
car insurance policy.
background
Mr C took out an insurance policy with AXA via a broker. When his son, a named driver 
under the policy,  had an accident in about  August 2018, Mr C claimed  under the policy.  
AXA said the car was uneconomical  to repair, but they declined his claim  and so wouldnt 
pay him its market value and returned the car. They said that Mr C didnt own the car, his 
son did, and, if theyd  known that, they wouldnt have provided cover. This was because  he 
didnt have an insurable interest in the car. 
AXA also avoided the policy,  meaning that that they treated it as if it never  existed, though 
they said they would refund his premiums  subject to him returning the insurance certificate. 
Mr C complained about their decision and about their delay in telling him. 
The investigator didnt  think that AXA had acted  unreasonably in declining  the claim and 
avoiding the policy.  But she did think they delayed in deciding,  and this inconvenienced Mr C 
so they should pay compensation. Mr C didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
What I have to consider  is whether  AXA have  acted reasonably in avoiding the
policy and declining  the claim.
An insurer  is only able to avoid  a policy in certain  circumstances.  The Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) says that in order  to do so, they must
show first that there was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do that, the insurer must
show that they asked a clear question, and that the consumer didnt take reasonable care in
answering it.
But Mr C didnt think hed made any misrepresentation.  He said he was the cars owner and 
he had correctly answered a question confirming  that he was the registered keeper and 
owner of the vehicle.  But AXA thought that Mr Cs son, a named driver on the policy, was in 
fact the owner  because  he paid for the car under  a finance agreement  in his name.
Mr C says that this was because Mr C had poor credit and he paid his son back  monthly for 
the car in cash. Later Mr C said that when he put the car on the policy  the broker  only asked 
him if he was the registered keeper, not if he was the owner.  However AXA have provided  
us with the brokers transcript of the call on 13 April.  It shows  that the agent asked Mr C Will 
you be the registered owner and keeper? and Mr C replied I will. 
I think that this was a clear question and that Mr C said that he was the owner and registered 
keeper of the car. 
Ref: DRN23667432Mr C has shown us the purchase receipt and finance agreement  for the car. They  show that 
Mr Cs son bought the car on 6 April 2017, paying  a deposit of £2000, and signing a finance 
agreement for the balance of the cars price. 
Hes also shown us the V5 registration  document for that car. It shows  that Mr C is the cars 
registered keeper  since  13 April, but the former  keeper was Mr Cs son from 6 April.  So Mr 
Cs son had bought the car then put into his fathers name only a few days  later.  But, as the 
V5 document says on it, registration is not proof of ownership. Mr C said that he was the 
cars owner  and his son only paid for the car because  Mr C had a poor credit  history,  but Mr 
C was paying  his son back in cash instalments. But there isnt any objective evidence  to 
support this and so I dont find it persuasive  evidence. 
AXA have also shown  us a screenshot of Mr Cs sons social  media page dated 7 April 2017 
which has a photo  of the car with the caption  Friday  treat, suggesting that Mr Cs son 
considered himself the cars owner  from that day. Taking all of this into account, I dont think 
it was unfair  of AXA to decide that Mr C didnt take reasonable care in answering  their 
questions about  the ownership  of the car. 
AXA have also shown  us Mr Cs statement of fact, which says that he is the owner and 
registered keeper.  It includes  a warning that the information in it is important to AXA and 
reflects the answers given to them, and if they are incorrect to advise them  immediately, 
failing which they can avoid the contract and refuse all claims. So I think Mr C shouldnt have 
been in any doubt that he should give the correct information.  
AXA have to show that the information they asked  for was important to them and that they 
means showing that it wouldnt have offered a policy at all to the consumer  or would only
have done so on different terms  if theyd known  the true facts. Insurable interest is such an 
important part of insurance that its clear  that they wouldnt have insured  Mr C if theyd 
known he didnt own the car.
Im satisfied that Mr C was not the cars owner. And as AXA had asked a clear question 
about this, I think they acted reasonably  to decline  the claim.  And even if Mr C believed the 
car to be his, it wasnt, and so he didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
The question is whether that is a careless misrepresentation under CIDRA or a deliberate  or 
reckless one. AXA would have to show that it was deliberate or reckless,  and I dont  think  
theyve done that. Which  means that it was careless, and AXA should return  the premiums. 
And AXA said from the start that they would do this, subject to Mr C returning the insurance 
certificate. I think  thats reasonable and I expect  them to do that. 
Mr C was also unhappy that AXA took so long to decline his claim.  Their final response  to 
him wasnt until 22 January 2019, though he made  the claim in August 2018. he said hed 
had to spend time chasing them, via his broker. He also said that on January  18 he been 
told that AXA would honour the claim,  and on that basis,  he bought a new car, only for them 
to change their mind and decline  the claim a few days  later. He said he wouldnt have 
bought the car if AXA had told him earlier, and he wouldnt have got into that sort of debt if 
hed known they would decline.  
Ref: DRN23667433AXA apologised for the months of delay, which they said had been down to 
interdepartmental oversight. There do seem to have been crossed wires within  AXA. They  
said they did have  a conversation with the broker  on 18 January, in which  they discussed 
accepting the claim,  but this was not their final decision. So they wouldnt accept any blame 
for him buying  a new car in reliance on that. However they did offer him compensation of 
£250 for their delay.   
I do think that AXA should have made their decision sooner, but that doesnt mean I think  
they are liable for Mr Cs debt from buying a new car. Mr C wants  us to listen to the 
recording of this AXA and broker  conversation,  but I dont think thats necessary, as AXA 
accept that it happened.  But AXA hadnt  given Mr C their final response directly at that point, 
and so I dont  think that they can be held responsible for his decision to buy a new car right 
away. And in any event, as it was Mr Cs son and not Mr C who owned the car claimed for, 
Mr C wasnt already incurring debt for that. I can see that the situation  has been worrying  
and frustrating for Mr C and that their delay in deciding caused him inconvenience. However 
I think the £250 they have  offered is fair compensation for that and so I dont ask them  to 
offer more.  
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require AXA Insurance  
Designated Activity Company to do as follows:
Pay Mr C compensation of £250 for his distress  and inconvenience
Refund to Mr C the premiums that he paid under the policy, adding interest on that 
amount at 8% simple per annum from the date of avoidance to the date they make 
the payment to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to
accept or reject my decision  before  3 September 2020
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If AXA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off and give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2366743