K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2003. At the same time they were  sold a 
PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Cs name only and covered their mortgage payments if     
Mr C was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  She thought it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork they had a choice in taking the policy and it wouldve suited their 
needs at the time. 
Mr and Mrs C disagree and say they felt pressured into taking  PPI. They  also add that Mr C 
was self employed and would  have  had to liquidate his business to claim on the policy. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy was sold over the phone. Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional and 
not a condition of the lending. Mr and Mrs C say this wasnt done  and that they were 
pressured into taking  the policy but havent given us much  detail  about  what  was said to 
make them think this. But I think thats  understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. So 
Ive relied more on what the documents from the sale show.
Ive seen a signed copy of the completed  PPI application form and direct debit mandate     
Mr and Mrs C returned separately  from their mortgage documentation.  So I think it wouldve 
been clear to Mr and Mrs C that PPI was separate to the mortgage because  they had to 
complete a separate application  for it and that they had a choice rather than be pressured  
into having it. And I think they more than likely had PPI because  they chose to take it by 
completing and signing  an application  for it. 
Moving on, Lloyds  advised Mr and Mrs C to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds 
not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that 
Mr and Mrs C could make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure 
that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr Cs needs  and 
circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C for the following  reasons:
Mr C was self employed at the time of sale. But as our adjudicator said in her view,  the 
terms for self employed policy  holders were  not restrictive or limiting in any way. Mr C 
could have  still claimed benefit  if needed.
Ref: DRN26882912
And it doesnt look like he wouldve  been  caught  by any of the other  main  exclusions in 
the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay or had savings. So a 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out in a time of need, covering him for up to 
12 months  if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr C in his circumstances 
especially considering  he and Mrs C were taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if they were  unable to meet  their repayments  I think 
they wouldve  been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs C at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they couldve cancelled it as 
outlined in their welcome pack.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs C information in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information  as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs C have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the policy if theyd  been given all the proper information.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs C about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN26882913my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2688291