K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him two payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
Mr W bought the first PPI policy in 1995 when he took out a loan. He refinanced his loan the 
following year and took out a new PPI policy at the same time. Mr W paid a monthly  amount 
for the policies.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Where, as here, the evidence  is incomplete or inconclusive  I need to decide  what I thinks 
most likely to have happened, based  on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Nationwide no longer  has copies of the documents which Mr W signed when he took out 
the loans  and the PPI policies. I dont think thats  surprising or unreasonable, given that 
the sales took place  more than 20 years ago. But it means  Ive got very little information 
to go on. So Ive used  our experience  of this type of sale to help me decide what I think 
is most  likely to have  happened. Ive also looked  at samples  of loan agreements that 
were in use by Nationwide in 1995  and 1996.
Nationwide hasnt been able to confirm whether the loans were secured  or unsecured.  
But its provided example loan agreements  for both types of loan. They are in a similar 
format to many others that weve seen. They set out the monthly PPI premium  
separately, and reasonably clearly and prominently.  And its described, in each case,  as 
Optional Credit  Insurance.
I understand that its frustrating that Im having  to reach my decision without the original 
documents. But because of the way the way the PPI was most  likely described on the 
loan agreement,  Im satisfied,  on balance, that Mr W would have realised at the time that 
the PPI was optional,  and not something  he needed to take in order  to get the loans. And 
I think its more  likely than not that he agreed to take out the PPI - although I can 
understand how he may have  forgotten this, so many  years later.
Mr W and Nationwide  agree that Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. This 
means it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. It was for Mr W to decide  whether 
he wanted to take out the PPI cover,  knowing  what other means  hed have had of 
making his monthly loan repayments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job. But 
Nationwide still had a responsibility to give Mr W clear enough information to decide 
whether the policy  was right for him.
Ref: DRN27494912Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But I dont think better information would have stopped him from 
buying the policies. Ill explain why.
Mr W was eligible for the policies.  I accept that its possible that Nationwide didnt point 
out the main things they didnt cover  (such as unusual working  arrangements  or existing 
medical conditions). But based on what Mr Ws told us about his circumstances  at the 
time he took the policies  out, its unlikely  hed have  been affected by any of these.
The policies would have  covered Mr Ws monthly loan payments for up to 24 months (or, 
if the loans were unsecured, until they were  paid off) if hed been off sick. Thats  longer 
than Mr Ws told us hed have been entitled  to full sick pay for, and longer than he could 
have relied on receiving benefit for under existing cover that hes told us about. And the 
PPI would also have  paid out for up to 12 months  if Mr W had lost his job. Whats more,  
the policies would have paid out in addition to any payments  Mr W received from his 
employer, allowing him to use those to meet other day-to-day  expenses.  
I acknowledge that Mr Ws also told us he had significant savings. But Ive borne in mind  
that he chose  to protect those by taking out loans rather than repaying  his debt or having 
smaller loans. And I note that Mr Ws told us that hed preferred to take out a loan than to 
lose the amount he had in savings. A successful claim  under the PPI policies would 
have meant that Mr W would have been  able to continue to protect  his savings, rather  
than having to use them to meet his monthly  loan repayments  if hed been off sick or lost 
his job.
Mr Ws also mentioned that his family could have helped  him financially if necessary. But 
circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mr Ws family would have been in a 
position to help if the need had arisen.
Im satisfied  that the loan agreements which Mr W signed  are likely to have been  in 
substantially the same form as one of the samples  that Nationwides provided. And 
having considered those, Im satisfied, on balance, that the cost of the policy would have 
been shown reasonably  clearly  and prominently.  So I think  Mr W would  have understood 
how much  the PPI would cost.  And I havent seen anything to make me think he couldnt  
afford it. Whats more, since he was paying for the policy monthly,  he could have 
cancelled it at any time if he decided he no longer  needed  it, or if his circumstances 
changed.
Taking  everything  into account, I think its unlikely that Mr W would have made a different 
decision about whether to take the PPI if Nationwide had given him better information.
Ref: DRN27494913my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2749491