K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has refused to consider a claim 
he has made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In 2015 Mr R entered into an agreement with a company called RoLec Solar  Limited 
(RoLec) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The  purchase  price was 
£9,595 and Mr R paid for using a loan which RoLec arranged with Creation.  The  loan was to 
be repaid with interest over a 10-year term, and the monthly payments were £125.78.
At the time of sale, RoLec  represented  to Mr R that the solar panels  would generate  
significant financial benefit through a combination of energy  savings and selling excess  
electricity back  to the grid.  The sales contract sets out a breakdown of the individual  
benefits and they totalled £841.09.  
Below the benefit amounts, the contract states:
if it [the solar  panel  system] does  not produce the above in 12 months from the date of 
installation we will reimburse  you the full price.
The solar  panels  were installed and operational from September  2015.  Two years  later,  in 
September 2017, Mr R contacted RoLec as the system wasnt  performing as he had been 
led to expect.  RoLec  responded  several  months later and communication  continued  about  
ongoing problems  with the system until Mr R eventually  issued  a claim against RoLec in the 
courts.
In late 2019 Mr R obtained a court judgment  against RoLec which  awarded  compensation.  
But unfortunately, RoLec entered administration and didnt honour the judgment.
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held jointly and severally responsible to the same 
extent as the supplier  for any misrepresentation or breach of contract.  So, Mr R made a 
s.75 claim to Creation.
Creation said it didnt need to look at Mr Rs s.75 claim  as the matter  had already been 
considered and decided by the courts.  Unhappy with the response, Mr R referred his 
complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators  contacted Creation but it failed to provide its file or any comments 
on the substantive merits of the complaint.
Based upon the available evidence the investigator recommended Mr Rs complaint be 
upheld.  In summary, she concluded  it was fair for Mr R to bring a claim against Creation as 
its independently liable  from any claim against  RoLec, and because  no compensation has 
been paid due to RoLec  going into administration.
To put things right, the investigator  concluded Creation should arrange  for the removal  of the 
solar panels  and cancel the loan agreement.
Mr R accepted the investigators recommendation, but Creation did not.
Ref: DRN28971012Creation said its not fair for it to be held responsible when the courts  have issued a 
judgment against RoLec and Mr R can pursue compensation  from its administrators  as a 
creditor.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed for an ombudsman to 
review afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
I should start by saying  that Creation has not provided a full response to the merits of Mr Rs 
complaint despite  several requests. So, Ive based  my decision on the information  that is 
available, and where something  is unclear  or missing, Ive concluded what I consider to be 
most likely on balance.
For a valid s.75 claim to exist, there must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship.  Im  satisfied  that exists and Creation has not contested  it so I wont expand  
further here.
I understand why Creation considers that its not responsible for Mr Rs claim,  and I 
acknowledge Mr R has gained a judgment against  RoLec through  the courts.  However, I do 
not agree  that Creation  is not responsible for dealing with Mr Rs s.75 claim.
The principle  of res judicata (a matter judged) stops litigants from raising  the same claim or 
issues twice  ensuring the finality  of judgments.  Ive thought carefully  about  this point but 
am not persuaded that is the case here.  RoLec has not honoured the court judgment to pay 
compensation to Mr R, and given  that its in administration its unlikely that the judgment will 
ever be able to be enforced in full  if at all.  
Under s.75 both RoLec  and Creation are jointly and severally responsible  for Mr Rs claim.  
The reason  he made  the claim to Creation was because he hasnt been compensated for his 
losses by RoLec, so I dont think its fair and reasonable  for Creation to refuse to address Mr 
Rs concerns.
As Ive concluded Creation is responsible for dealing with Mr Rs s.75 claim,  its necessary 
for me to consider  the evidence relating to Mr Rs claim.  Despite several opportunities, 
Creation has not addressed the issues, so I have reviewed what is available impartially.   
Ive seen a number of documents provided  by Mr R, including his purchase  agreement with 
RoLec and a timeline chronology of the problems hes had with the solar panel  system.  Ive 
found Mr Rs concerns to be credible  and in the absence of representations  to the contrary  I 
think Creation should  put things right.
There are a number of ways that Creation could put things right and Ive thought  about  what 
a fair and reasonable way is of doing  so.  Im  aware  that the court  had ordered RoLec to 
refund any payments made for the solar  system  and clear the remaining loan balance owed 
to Creation.
Ref: DRN28971013It appears Mr R has suffered ongoing disruption  for several years  as a result  of the problems 
hes had with the solar  panel system.   This has resulted in a loss of FIT payments and a 
reduction in the energy savings that were represented to Mr R by RoLec.   Ive  contemplated 
asking Creation to calculate the difference between  the represented benefits and what  hes 
likely to receive, but I dont think thats appropriate here.
Had Mr R known about the potential problems hes faced with the system and that it wouldnt 
generate the financial  benefits  he was told, I think  its unlikely he would have proceeded with 
the purchase at all.  So, in this case I think it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to 
unwind the situation by arranging for the solar  panels to be uninstalled and cancelling  the 
loan.  
Whilst I understand the system hasnt performed as expected, I do recognise  it has likely 
produced some savings  for Mr R.  But given the problems hes faced and the fact that 
Creation hasnt tried to resolve matters  for him, I dont think  any deduction should be made  
for those.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Creation  Consumer  Finance  
Limited.  To  put things right it should:
A)Arrange for the removal of the solar panel system from Mr Rs property.
B)Write  off the outstanding balance of Mr Rs loan.
C)Refund all payments Mr R has made  towards the loan.
D)Pay 8% simple interest per annum  on the payments at C above, from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2897101