K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr D had a British Gas HomeCare policy. It included cover  for plumbing and drainage. 
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
associated plumbing  and drainage company - and others for whose actions I hold that 
insurance company  responsible.
In about September 2017 Mr D called British  Gas for help with a leaking water  pipe. British 
Gas repaired it. In July 2018 Mr D reported  a further  leak. He complained that it was from the 
pipe British Gas had repaired before.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
British Gas worked on different parts of the pipe in 2017 and 2018. He said the information 
available showed  that British Gas didnt make an error. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to British  Gas on 14 August 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
I didnt think that in September 2017 the first engineer had used reasonable care and 
skill to leave a joint of satisfactory quality and reasonable durability.
I was minded to find that British Gas caused Mr D to make the second insurance  
claim. But he hadnt sent us evidence of payment (or deduction) of the policy excess.  
Provided that he did so, I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct British  
Gas to reimburse Mr D with interest at our usual  rate.
Mr D hadnt sent us evidence of his buildings insurance policy  renewal date, policy 
schedules, no-claims discount or premiums  for recent years.  Further  he hadnt shown 
us details of his claim or confirmed that he had made no other claims. So I wasnt  
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to compensate  him for any 
increase in his buildings insurance premium in the current year or future years.
But I was minded to hold British Gas responsible for the inconvenience and distress 
caused by the second  leak  and by the way it has responded  to his complaint. I was 
minded to find £200.00 fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mr D or from British Gas, my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  British Gas Insurance  
Limited to:
1.(if he provided evidence of payment or deduction  of the policy excess  of £250.00):
1.1pay Mr D £250.00 in reimbursement  of the policy excess; and
Ref: DRN239201221.2pay Mr D simple interest on £250.00  at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of 
payment or deduction to the date of reimbursement.  If British Gas considers that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, 
it must  tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate; and
2.pay Mr D £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D has  in response  to the provisional  decision  forwarded an email from his home 
buildings insurer.
British Gas says it is unable to add anything  further in response  to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British  Gas policy covered repairs of leaking pipes. But it didnt cover damage  caused 
by a leak. 
In September  2017 Mr D suffered a leak from a water pipe behind  his freezer  in his kitchen. 
From what  Mr D has said, that leak caused  some damage in the kitchen and hall.
British Gas repaired the leak. It has provided us with six photographs  (arranged in a block  
with two columns and three rows  with no spaces between the photographs). From  them, I 
see that the first engineer removed a short section of copper  pipe just above the floor 
screed. He replaced  it with a copper bend  on the left and a flexi-hose and a joint on the right. 
Mr D has told us the following:
Just to be clear the damaged (sic) caused  by the September 2017 leak was 
repaired, an insurance claim was registered  however it shows as a zero value claim 
because the repairs  cost less than the excess on the policy .
But Mr D hasnt shown us any evidence of the extent of repairs after the first leak.
In July 2018 Mr D reported that there  had been  a further leak as the repair from September  
2017 had failed. He said this had caused  further damage.
British Gas said that the first leak and repair were to a different section  of pipe to the second 
leak. But  in support of that  British  Gas has provided only one photograph.  It said the 
following:
The engineer who attended  05/07/2018 took one photo which  is not very clear but 
it's highlighted the area he worked on
Someone has inserted a red circle to highlight the area British Gas says it worked on. The 
quality of that photograph  is poor. But I can see that it is an extract  from the block  of earlier 
photographs  mainly from the third row of the second column  but with a small piece of the 
Ref: DRN23920123photograph in the row above. So I dont think British  Gas has shown us any photograph 
taken on 5 July 2018.
Whats more, the red circle is highlighting  the new joint between  the new flexi-hose and the 
old copper pipe to the right. Thats a joint made  by British Gas in September 2017.
That joint mustve been leaking  on 5 July 2018 and probably for some time before that. So I 
dont think that in September 2017 the first engineer had used reasonable care and skill to 
leave a joint of satisfactory quality  and reasonable durability.
Mr D has told us that he made (another) claim on his home buildings  insurance. He has told 
us that he would like to recover his policy excess of £250.00 and to ensure that his claim has 
no impact on his future home buildings insurance premiums.
I find that British Gas caused him to make  the second insurance claim.  And Mr D has 
recently sent us email  evidence of payment of the policy excess.  So I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to reimburse  him with interest at our usual rate.
Mr D hasnt sent us evidence of his buildings  insurance policy renewal date, policy  
schedules, no-claims discount or premiums  for recent years.  Further  he hasnt shown us 
details of his claim  or confirmed that he had made no other claims.
The email  from his buildings  insurer says the following:
you  have paid the policy excess of £250  in respect of the above claim for escape 
of water at your property  on 05/07/2018. I have  spoken to the Sales  & Service  dept 
who have confirmed that the 2 escape  of water  claims which have  been  registered on 
your policy has increased the yearly  policy premiums  by £311.43.
That doesnt  distinguish  between the first claim (for which British Gas wasnt  responsible)  
and the second claim  (for which British Gas was responsible). The email  suggests that each 
of the two claims had an effect on the yearly  policy premiums. So I dont  find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to compensate Mr D for the increase in his buildings 
insurance premium in the current year or future  years.
But I hold British Gas responsible for the inconvenience and distress caused by the second 
leak  and by the way it has responded  to his complaint. I find £200.00 fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr D:
1£250.00 in reimbursement of the policy excess;  and
2simple interest on £250.00  at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment or 
deduction to the date of reimbursement.  If British Gas considers that its required by 
HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr D 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3.£200.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN23920124Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392012