K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly  continued to 
apply interest, fees and charges to their overdraft when they were  experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Background 
Since the complaint has been  with us, Mr and Mrs M have also complained about a Premier 
charge card.  But weve explained that that matter is being looked at separately and I wont  
be considering  it as part of this decision.
After the complaint was referred  to us Barclays agreed to refund all the overdraft fees and 
associated charges it added to Mr and Mrs Ms account from January  2013 onwards. 
One of our investigators  looked at matters  and thought that what Barclays had agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr and Mrs M was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already  agreed to
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
Barclays agrees that it should have taken corrective action and prevented  Mr and Mrs M 
from using their overdraft in the same way when its credit card department was first notified  
of Mr Ms medical condition and it ought to have passed this on in January 2013. On the 
other hand, Mr and Mrs M say that Barclays ought to have known about Mr Ms medical  
condition as far back in 2010 and should  have  responded at that point. 
I dont know exactly what, if any, contact  Mr and Mrs M had with Barclays  in 2010.  But Ive 
had a look at the record  of the contact Mr and Mrs M has had with Barclays  over the years.  I 
can see some indication  of Mr M getting in touch with Barclays to express his concerns  at 
not having had access to the relationship manager  he was promised. Mr and Mrs M also got 
in contact with Barclays  in 2009 and 2019 to express their dissatisfaction and concern at 
their Premier account and the lack of a relationship manager. 
But there isnt anything in all of the correspondence provided to suggest Mr M notified  
Barclays of his medical condition or even that Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft was discussed  prior 
to January 2013. I accept that its possible the information Ive been provided with wont 
necessarily reflect every communication Mr and Mrs M had with Barclays.  However, without  
anything else from Mr and Mrs M to support  them having notified Barclays  of Mr Ms medical  
condition prior to January 2013,  theres simply not enough here for me to make a finding that 
Barclays should also refund any interest,  fees and charges added  to the overdraft prior to 
this date. 
Ref: DRN29966302Ive also thought about all the evidence of other debts Mr and Mrs M have provided us. And 
it does look like Mr and Mrs M were in arrears on accounts with other  creditors  in 2011  and 
2012. But while I do sympathise with what must have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs M, 
the question here for me to determine is whether Barclays was aware of this. Ive not seen 
anything here for me to be able to say that Barclays was made  aware of these arrears  and 
difficulties. And Ive not seen anything which persuades me that it ought reasonably to have 
been aware of them  in the absence of being told about this either.
  
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their case and 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.  As this is the case,  I leave it up to Mr and Mrs M to 
decide whether  they wish to accept Barclayss offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of their complaint.  So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2996630