K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that he was mis-sold  a Premier  Life account in 2010 by Barclays  Bank  
UK PLC. He has also complained that he was mis-sold a Tech,  Travel  Plus and Home pack  
in 2017 when his Premier Life was migrated to a free account with these packs.  The reasons 
that Mr L says the accounts and packs were mis-sold was that he was not made  aware of 
the benefits in audio  format and that this led to him duplicating cover or not being able to use 
the benefits. He is unhappy with the breakdown cover as he had to pay an excess  and he is 
unhappy that when he tried to use the concierge service it was not as helpful as he would 
like.
background
I sent out a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2019,  which  forms part of this 
decision the findings of which are attached below.
In summary  I concluded that the Premier Life account was not mis-sold and that Barclays did 
not do anything  wrong in relation to the migration to the Tech,  Travel  Plus and Home pack. I 
also explained that, while I can see that Mr L has issues  with various  claims that he made  on 
the insurances that came with the account,  that he would  have  to direct these queries to the 
insurers. Finally,  I set out that I cant see that Barclays did anything  wrong in relation to the 
concierge service.
Barclays did not add anything in response  to this assessment.  Mr L did not agree with the 
assessment and raised the following points.
I did not take into consideration his human rights and disabilities 
I did not take into consideration that Barclays didnt  send him the terms and 
conditions of the account in audio  format
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and with this in mind I would like to 
address the points that Mr L has raised.
I note that Mr L does not believe  that I took into consideration his human rights and 
disabilities but as I explained in my provisional  decision, I am satisfied that once Barclays 
were made aware that he wanted  documentation  in a different format  it complied with this 
request.
Mr L has concerns that he was not sent the terms and conditions  of the account in audio  
format, but as I explained, I think Barclays  gave him enough information to use the benefits 
of the account,  as demonstrated by his extensive  use of the benefits. In addition, I am 
satisfied that after 2015 annual eligibility  statements were issued setting out the benefits and 
how to use them in the format he requested. Therefore, I am unable to conclude that this 
caused him a financial  loss. 
Overall and having re-considered everything  I do not think  that Barclays mis-sold the 
Premier Life account or did anything wrong in migrating Mr Ls accounts to the various 
packs. So I dont  think that it owes him money in relation to this.
Ref: DRN24447622my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr L has not complained  that he was not given  a fair choice in taking  out either the Premier Life 
account or the Tech, Travel Plus and Home packs. Mr Ls complaint  seems to be that he was not 
given enough information  in order to utilise  the benefits that they came with.
In relation to the Premier account I can see that Mr L extensively used  the major  benefits that the 
account came  with. This suggests that he received some information about  them  during the sale,  
Ref: DRN24447623otherwise he wouldnt have been in a position to use them at all. I accept  that Mr L may not have 
been told everything about  all of the benefits  that then account came with, but I cannot see anything  
specific that Mr L was not told that I think  wouldve  altered  his decision to take out the account.
I not that Mr L says that he was unable  to understand the information sent to him in a written format  
after the sale and that he asked for all documentation to be sent in an audio  format but there is no 
record of this with Barclays until 2015 and if he did ask prior to this point I wouldve  expected some 
record of this. So I do not think that Mr L did request  this format prior to this point and after this point  I 
am satisfied  that Barclays  complied with this request and sent out information  about this account  in 
the format requested by Mr L. So, I cant see that Barclays did anything that wrong  that caused Mr L a 
financial loss during  the sale of this account.
In relation to the migration  to the Tech, Travel Plus and Home pack this was not a sale it was a 
migration as Barclays had decided to change the products that it offered.  Barclays was required to 
give notice of this change and make it clear  that this change was optional.  Barclays has explained 
that it sent letters explaining  this both in written  and audio  format. I have a copy  of the written letter 
and I am satisfied that the audio format wouldve been identical to this and it makes  it clear  what  the 
benefits are and that the migration is optional. So I dont think that Barclays did anything  wrong in 
relation to this.
Mr L has said that he was not told everything that he needed  to know to use the benefits. But 
ultimately, I am satisfied  that Barclays did enough.  Given Mr Ls contact  with Barclays, and his use of 
the benefits,  I think that he must have been given at least some information, and that if had any 
further questions about the benefits he couldve contacted Barclays to ask.
I note that Mr L is unhappy  with some of the claims that he made  with the various  service  providers of 
the insurance  benefits. If he thinks that a claim  was declined incorrectly or he did not receive the 
service he expected from these providers  he would  need to raise these  issues with them directly.
I also note Mr Ls comments that he did not receive  help for his financial  difficulties in relation to a call 
with the Barclays  concierge service. Barclays dont have a record of this call, and there is not enough 
evidence currently available for me to say that it did anything wrong in relation to that call. That said if 
Mr L does  think that Barclays did not help with his financial situation in relation to the various calls he 
had with them  on other occasions,  then he would  have to raise that directly with Barclays in the first 
instance.
Ultimately, I understand  that Mr L will be disappointed  with this as he clearly feels strongly that he has 
lost out. But looking  at everything  I am currently dont believe that Barclays has done anything wrong 
for which compensation is merited.
Ref: DRN2444762