K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service he got from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under his 
roadside assistance policy.
background
When Mr Js car broke down, he called his roadside assistance service.  He was initially  told 
it would  be three hours before IPAs  agent  could get to him. In the end, it was nearly six 
hours. 
When Mr J complained to IPA, it agreed  the delay had been unreasonable. It apologised to 
Mr J and offered him compensation  of £150  for the distress and inconvenience  hed been 
caused.
Mr J declined the offer and brought his complaint to us. The investigator  who looked at        
Mr Js complaint thought  he should be compensated for the upset  and worry hed 
experienced. But she also thought IPAs offer of £150 was fair. Mr J disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. I know  this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
IPA accepts it was unreasonable for Mr J to have  to wait as long as he did to be recovered.  
It has apologised and has also said Mr Js concerns have been  passed to the relevant 
departments. And its offered Mr J £150  for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused him.
Mr J doesnt think IPAs  offer is adequate. So I need to decide what  I think is fair and 
reasonable compensation for IPA to pay Mr J to recognise the impact  of his failings on him.
I can see from the call notes IPA has sent us that, after his car broke  down, Mr J made  a 
number of calls asking  for updates on when help would arrive.  And its clear  from these 
notes Mr J was increasingly unhappy with the delay and lack of communication from IPA and 
its agent about how long this was likely  to take. Its also clear  he doesnt  think IPAs agent  
was honest with him about the reasons  for the delay.
Mr J has since  described the situation as dreadful, particularly  because he says he was 
travelling with his heavily pregnant partner at the time. While I cant  consider the impact of 
IPAs delay on Mr Js partner (because  Mr J is the sole policyholder),  I have considered  how 
his concern for his partner will have increased his distress.
But I have to bear in mind  that all breakdowns are stressful,  and involve some  distress and 
inconvenience. In Mr Js case, though  and for the reasons Ive outlined   I think IPAs 
delay in sending  help added to the distress and inconvenience the breakdown inevitably 
caused him. But looking at all the information  Ive got about what  happened, including what  
Ref: DRN24400202Mr J has said,  I think  IPAs offer of compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable for the level 
of distress and inconvenience he experienced. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. I think the offer Inter Partner 
Assistance SA has made of £150  in compensation for his distress and inconvenience is fair 
and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2440020