K821x#15complaint
Ms D says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five loans Sunny provided to Ms D between  July 2018 and April 
2019. Ms Ds borrowing  history is set out on the table below as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount
1 12/07/2018 26/07/2018 6 £300.00 £72.04
2 07/08/2018 26/10/2018 6 £800.00 £246.27
3 30/08/2018 26/10/2018 6 £100.00 £278.82
4 30/09/2018 26/10/2018 6 £100.00 £311.19
5 30/04/2019 outstanding 6 £800.00 £258.23
There was a six-month gap between the time Ms D repaid loan 4 and borrowed loan 5.
Ms D says the high interest on the loans  meant  she had to continue  to borrow. She also said 
that she didnt  think Sunny  carried  out enough checks from the first loan as she already had 
several other  pay day loans, so her loan dependency grew  and caused  a debt spiral.
In its final response to Ms D, Sunny did not uphold her complaint. It said it had carried out 
the necessary  eligibility, affordability  and creditworthiness checks  before making  a decision 
as to whether  to provide  the loans. It said Ms Ds complaint that the loans were unaffordable 
was not supported by the information it held.
Our adjudicator initially said she did not think this was a matter  that should  be upheld.  Ms D 
sent some  more information  and our adjudicator looked again at the matter.  This time she 
said that she couldnt say it was unfair for Sunny to have provided loans 1-3 and loan 5 to 
Ms D. But she said that loan 4 shouldnt have  been given.
Sunny said it would be willing to accept the outcome but that there was no refund due as 
Ms D still had to repay the outstanding amount on her account which  was £1,081.60  and 
the refund  amount of £22.13 would be offset against  this amount. Ms D did not agree with 
this offer.  She said that she had more than 6 other short-term loans when she applied  for 
loans 1-3 and for loan 5, so she couldnt  understand the difference between her 
circumstances when  she was given these loans and loan 4. She also told us that her 
financial situation was dire when she took out all the loans. She said Sunny had offered her 
a settlement of £250 for her outstanding loan 5. She asked that an ombudsman look again at 
her complaint. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN29755302Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms D could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Ms D but Ive 
decided to agree with our adjudicator and uphold loan 4 only. I will explain why.
Ms D has told us she was in a dire financial position  when Sunny gave her all of the loans. I 
appreciate that might  have been the case and Im sorry about her difficulties but when Sunny 
gave Ms D loans 1-3 I think it carried out a proportionate check  because it was early  in the 
lending relationship. Ms D told Sunny that her income when she took out loans 1,2 and 3 
was £2,591. She also told Sunny  that her expenditure for loan 1 was £2,053.  Her 
expenditure for loan 2 was £1,370 and her expenditure  for loan 3 was £2,208. Ms D has told 
us she had other short-term lending. This appears  to be supported  by her bank statements. 
But at this stage,  I dont think it had reached  the point that Sunny needed to ask more about 
the information Ms D had provided or verify  the information further.
Ref: DRN29755303Sunny says it had carried out a credit check and looked for any County Court Judgments. 
From the checks it did, I cant say there was any indication that Ms D was having  problems 
managing her money or that Sunny should have carried out further checks. So it appeared 
on the face of it that the loans were affordable for Ms D. 
Before looking at loan 4, I can see that when  it provided loan 5 to Ms D there had been  a 
gap of around six months between the time Ms D repaid  loan 4 and when  she borrowed 
again for loan 5. So as so much time had passed,  I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for 
Sunny to carry out the checks it had done  for this loan either. I think  these checks  were 
proportionate and sufficient. For this loan Ms D had declared her income as £2,274  and her 
expenditure as £1,447. So again, on the face of it, loan 5 would likely have appeared to be 
sustainably affordable. So, Im sorry to disappoint  Ms D but I cant say it was unfair for 
Sunny to have provided loans 1-3 and loan 5 to her.
Looking carefully  at loan 4 however, I think for this loan Sunny needed to do more  checks. 
This was the fourth loan in a chain of borrowing and by this time Ms D had loans 2 and 3 
outstanding and her repayments in total amounted  to more than they had been for any other  
loan she had taken  previously. Ms D has provided copies of her bank statements at the time.  
And I can see if it had done more  checks Sunny  would have been aware that Ms D also had   
several other  short-term  loans with other  lenders.  So, I think its likely if it had done more  
checks Sunny would have been  aware  that Ms D was at this stage having problems 
managing her money.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Ms D loan 4. So it should:
refund  all interest and charges Ms D paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Ms Ds credit file;
Sunny  can use the refund from loan 4 to offset any outstanding balance on loan 5.
Ms D says Sunny offered  her an amount towards settling loan 5. I havent seen any 
evidence about  this from Sunny or Ms D but would  remind Sunny of its duty to treat Ms D 
fairly in relation to any previous offer it has made.
Ref: DRN29755304my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ds complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2975530