K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss T. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001alongside a store credit account. 
Miss T was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint.  This is because I dont think  the information FICL 
gave Miss T about the costs and benefits of the card were  as clear as they should have 
been. I think this would have made a difference to whether Miss T took the PPI. She has 
been consistent about the level of employer sickness benefits she was entitled to. And, when 
combined with the savings she had, I dont think shed have thought  the PPI worth the cost. I 
dont think shed have  taken PPI, if shed had fuller information. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Miss T in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss T would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss T owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss T would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN27988402C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss T would have owed each month  without PPI  
Miss T paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss T paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Miss T wouldve owed FICL something  on her credit. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss T what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss T that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint. I require Financial  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2798840