K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the way Kensington Mortgage Company  Limited  administered  her 
mortgage account. Kensington told her they hadnt  always administered her mortgage 
account as they should  have done, and so have re-worked the account  to put this right.
Miss S doesnt think the way they re-worked  the account accurately reflects the impact their 
errors had on her. It doesnt  take into account the costs shes  incurred  as a result of the legal  
action Kensington  have  taken, nor does it take into account the stress this action caused  her 
over the years.  So she feels Kensington should  pay her more  compensation.
background
In May 2018, Kensington wrote to Miss S. They said that following guidance from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), they were  contacting her about the way theyd 
administered her mortgage. They said theyd automatically included  the mortgage  arrears 
balance when calculating  her monthly payments, but continued  to take steps to collect  the 
arrears separately.  They said as a result, the amount they requested  she pay each month 
was incorrect.
Kensington said theyd reviewed  Miss Ss mortgage,  and adjusted  the account to what it 
would have been had they calculated the monthly  payments correctly, not including  the 
arrears balance. They corrected her payment arrears balance, removing £2,521.91. 
Miss S complained to Kensington, as she felt their offer didnt take into account the financial 
loss she incurred as a result of their actions, or the stress this caused, specifically from the 
court action they took. She felt Kensington wouldnt have taken legal action if they hadnt  
been overcharging her every  month.
Kensington said they were satisfied theyd re-worked the account in line with the FCA 
guidance. They also said they had taken legal action  in line with the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage, and the charges and fees had also been applied correctly.  
Miss S brought her complaint to our service, and our investigator looked  into things. He 
didnt uphold  the complaint, and explained that Kensington had put Miss S back in the 
position she would have been in, had they administered the account correctly.  He didnt think  
Kensington needed to pay Miss S any additional compensation.
Miss S disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kensington have  explained that they didnt administer Miss Ss mortgage account as they 
should have done. So its now for me to decide  whether what theyve done to put things right 
is fair, given  Miss Ss individual circumstances.
Kensington have  sent us their calculations  to show how theyve re-worked Miss Ss 
mortgage account. Miss S has also provided us with her own calculations  to show  what  she 
feels she is due back to her. Whilst I appreciate Miss S feels shes due a significantly higher 
Ref: DRN20186362refund, having  carefully considered all the information provided by both parties, Im satisfied 
Kensington have  put Miss Ss mortgage account back into the position it would have been, 
had they done things  right.
However, Miss S feels that Kensington should also compensate her for the financial loss and 
stress shes  experienced as a result of the way they administered the mortgage. She feels 
that because Kensington  were overcharging her every month, this is the reason she was in 
arrears, and so the reason they took legal action   which meant  she incurred unnecessary  
costs.
Ive carefully considered  the history of Miss Ss mortgage account,  and the contact notes 
between her and the bank  over the years. Its clear  Miss S has been through  a very difficult  
time over a significant  period  due to her health  which has affected  her ability to make her 
full mortgage payments.  As a result,  significant arrears have built up on the mortgage.
Whilst I appreciate the circumstances Miss S unfortunately found herself in were outside of 
her control, Im not persuaded that Kensington  would have acted differently had they been 
administering her mortgage correctly. This is because whilst Kensington were asking for 
slightly more each  month than they should  have been  from 2011 until 2015, Miss S went  
through a significant period when she was rarely able to pay the contractual  monthly 
payment amount. And looking at the amounts Kensington should have been charging,  she 
was still paying  much less than those amounts too. 
So whether  Kensington had been asking  for the correct amount or not  the mortgage would 
still have been  in significant arrears.  And so Im satisfied its likely that Kensington still would 
have taken legal action to recover those arrears.  And looking at the transaction  history, and 
the conversations Kensington  regularly  had with Miss S  I think  this was fair at the time.  As 
a result,  I dont think Kensington  should  refund the additional costs  Miss S incurred  because  
of these arrears, and the legal action.
I can see from everything Miss S has told us that managing this mortgage  was extremely 
difficult and stressful whilst she was experiencing ill health and financial difficulties. But 
having considered everything, for the reasons  Ive explained, Im not satisfied this stress was 
caused as a result of the way Kensington administered her mortgage. So whilst I understand 
this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, I wont be asking them  to pay her any 
additional compensation as a result.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2018636