K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed  his current  account and registered a 
fraud prevention marker against him without due cause.
Background
In 2016 Mr M connected with another individual, who well call Mr A, through a website  
designed to connect investors with entrepreneurs. They agreed that Mr A would invest  in Mr 
Ms gaming  application.  In December 2016, Mr A sent three  payments  totalling £26,000 to 
Mr Ms Barclays account. Mr M explained  they set up a company, which had been registered 
with Companies House in May 2016.  
Mr M explained they signed contracts to establish  them both as directors of the company, 
which hes provided to this service. Mr M said he then went  about trying  to create the game.  
He says he did so with the support of two other  companies. Mr M sent the money to a third-
party payment service provider shortly  after receipt,  which Mr M explains was to pay for 
costs associated with the development of the game. 
Mr M said there were some unforeseen difficulties  setting up the game which meant  it 
couldnt be finished or launched. He told us that this meant the game, and Mr As 
investment, failed. 
In 2017 Barclays  received  information  that the payments into the account  were fraudulent  
funds. They  froze the funds and prevented access for a few weeks. They then closed his 
account with immediate effect  and registered  a Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance System 
(Cifas) marker against his name. 
Mr M was not happy with this, so he complained to Barclays. Mr M has maintained  that the 
funds he received were  part of a genuine but failed business venture. He points to the 
Companies House  registration and dissolution  of the business, and the signed contracts with 
Mr A. He asked Barclays to remove the Cifas marker. 
Barclays reviewed Mr Ms complaint and said they felt that Mr M had been  the recipient  of 
fraudulent funds and noted that the money was quickly transferred on to other  accounts.  
Barclays maintained  that they were correct in registering the Cifas  and closing his account. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he came to our service. Our investigator reviewed the evidence  
and initially  felt that Barclays may have acted unfairly in registering a Cifas  for what he 
thought could have been a genuine failed  business venture. But upon review, he felt that Mr 
M hadnt  provided  enough evidence that hed expect Mr M to be able to provide had this 
been a genuine business venture. Considering this, he didnt recommend that Barclays need  
do anything further.  Mr M disagreed, so the case has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Ref: DRN29235782The marker that Barclays asked to be applied  is for misuse of facility. The misuse relates to 
using the account to receive fraudulent funds. For Barclays to record this they dont need to 
be able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of an offence of fraud. But in 
order to register a Cifas  marker, they are expected to be able to demonstrate that there  are 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud  or financial crime has been committed  or 
attempted. They must also be able to show that the evidence theyve based this on is clear, 
relevant and rigorous such  that it could confidently report the conduct of Mr M to the police  
though this doesnt mean that they have to make such  a report.  
Mr M has explained that the registration  of the business and contracts  with Mr A 
demonstrate a genuine business relationship. But Mr A doesnt dispute  that he intended to 
enter into a contract  with Mr M. The allegations  of fraud  relate to Mr M being deliberately 
dishonest with regard  to his actions and intentions in receiving the money   namely  that he 
didnt spend the money  to develop a game.  The relevant finding for me to make is not 
specifically what I conclude was most  likely to have been Mr Ms intentions  and actions in 
relation to Mr As money. Rather,  my role is to determine what  I think  Barclays  were entitled  
to think about  what had most likely  gone on, such that it would be able to escalate its 
concerns based  on the evidence available to it. 
I do think that on balance  Barclays were entitled to do so. This is because  I can understand 
that for Barclays to believe this was a genuine  business venture that had failed rather than a 
scam, theyd  expect to be provided with evidence of where the £26,000  went  after Mr M 
received it, and that it was used in an attempt to make the game. However: 
: 
I can see the funds  Mr A sent to Mr Ms account were  moved  using a third-party  
payment service provider  (PSP)  account.  
Mr M said he moved them  onto the PSP in order to pay the other businesses  who 
were supporting him in developing the game,  and to buy cryptocurrency to be used  
within the game. But Mr M hasnt been able to provide  any evidence of the operation 
of the PSP account  to show this is the case.  
He explained  that this is because  it was a business PSP account and he removed his 
name from it so could no longer access it. I appreciate that he may not be able to 
access the PSP account if Mr As name remains on it, but Id expect some other 
evidence to be retained relating to where  this money went.  
In the absence of evidence  to show exactly where the money went, Mr M was asked 
to provide other evidence such as correspondence or invoices. He said he was 
talking to Mr A and the developers through  an encrypted  email and video calling so 
he couldnt provide evidence  of any correspondence.
Mr M has provided task lists and other documents  relating to the development of a 
game, but I dont  feel these would demonstrate to Barclays  that the money  he 
received from Mr A was utilised in game development.
Taking everything into account,  I do think Barclays had enough to meet the burden of proof 
required by CIFAS to add the marker against Mr Ms name. I think its fair that Barclays 
reported Mr M to CIFAS  and subsequently  closed  his account and so Im not going to ask 
Barclays to remove the marker. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint. In the circumstances I think 
Barclays has fairly applied  their terms when deciding to close Mr Ms account and register  
the CIFAS marker. 
Ref: DRN29235783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2923578