K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building 
Society -C&G), mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance,  (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr T bought  the MPPI during a meeting in 1993 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr T disagreed 
the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this approach in Mr Ts case.
Because of the time that has passed, understandably C&G has been  unable to send us 
copies of the paperwork signed  by Mr T. Nor do I have much detail about what  happened 
during the meeting when  C&G sold the policy.  So Ive made  my decision based  on the 
information that I do have and what we know generally about the sale of this type of policy.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  I explain why below:
As the sale was face-to-face I dont know what C&G actually said to Mr T about  the MPPI. 
Mr T says that C&G told him that if he didnt take the MPPI it might affect his loan.  I dont 
doubt that that is his recollection  now of what was said. But the meeting was some  25 years  
ago. So I dont think that I can fairly and reasonably rely solely  on Mr Ts memory.  And 
without any more persuasive evidence I dont consider  that I have enough information to 
conclude that C&G  didnt  make it clear to Mr T that the policy was optional.
C&G advised Mr T to take out the insurance  This means it ought to have taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable  for his needs.  I dont know  what  steps C&G took, if any, 
but I find that the MPPI  was suitable  in any event. I say this because, knowing what I do 
about Mr Ts circumstances  at the time,  and the terms and conditions  of insurance which I 
think would  have applied  to him:
Mr T was likely to have been  eligible for the policy;
Mr T wasnt likely  to have been  caught by any of the MPPIs main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition:;
Ref: DRN22632562Mr T has told us that he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer and had some 
savings to help him make  his mortgage  repayments had he been off work. However,  
following a successful  claim, the policy,  would  likely to have paid Mr Ts monthly 
mortgage and associated insurance  including those for his endowment policy,  
payments, had Mr T not been  working because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
These payments  would  probably have been made for up to 12 months and would have 
been paid in addition to anything Mr T got from his employment   leaving the latter  
available to help with his other expenditure while he wasnt  working  . So I think  that the 
MPPI could have been of use to Mr T;
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr T couldnt  afford the insurance. In any event, as it 
was paid for monthly, he could  have cancelled the policy  at any time had he later felt that 
it was unaffordable or that he no longer required  it;
Its possible that C&G didnt give Mr T all the information about the MPPI that it ought to 
have so that he could make  a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. But in view of 
what Ive concluded  above I dont think that clearer information would have stopped  him 
buying it. I reach this conclusion particularly taking into account the possible serious 
consequences that could have arisen  had Mr T not been able to keep up his mortgage 
repayments, which were  secured on his home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr T has lost out because of anything C&G may have  done  
wrong, or omitted to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully  considered  everything that Mr T has told us, including that 
his family  could have  helped  him out had he not been working. As we explain on our 
website, we dont  usually take this into account. This is because  circumstances  change   
and such assistance  isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr Ts case to make me 
think its reasonable to deviate from this approach here. So this and his other comments 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2263256