K821x#15complaint
Mr D and Mr A have  complained about how Hastings Insurance  Services Limited dealt with 
Mr Ds motor insurance policy.
background 
Mr D had a policy with Hastings, on which Mr A was the named driver. Mr D said that 
Hastings unfairly increased his monthly premium and that, after his policy  was cancelled, 
they chased him for the debt. He said their actions also meant  hed had to sell his car at a 
loss.
Hastings accepted that theyd made  some  mistakes around the premium  increase issue  and 
their calculation of what  Mr D owed them. They offered him some  compensation for that. But 
they didnt accept any responsibility  for him selling his car at a loss.   
The investigator recommended  that Mr Ds complaint should be partly upheld. He didnt think 
that Hastings  were liable for any loss on Mr Ds sale of his car. But as regards the premium 
increase and calculation of the debt, he thought that Hastings hadnt acted fairly and 
reasonably and that they should increase  their offer of compensation. Hastings  didnt agree 
and so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said that Hastings  took more money  from his account than hed agreed.  So he 
cancelled his direct  debit. When he queried  it with Hastings  they said that theyd  increased  
his monthly premium instalment because his No Claims Discount (NCD) had expired and 
his annual mileage  was more than theyd  thought.  They  said theyd contacted  him about 
those issues, but Mr D said he hadnt heard. He also said that he couldnt pay the higher 
premium, and he incurred  bank charges when that premium  couldnt be met from his 
account. 
Because Mr D had cancelled his direct  debit, Hastings cancelled his policy. Mr D said that 
this meant  that he had to arrange to sell his car quickly,  as he was away  at the time, and so 
he had to sell it at a loss. He said that he also experienced stress because Hastings referred 
his debt to a debt collection agency who he said harassed him. He didnt  feel that he owed 
what Hastings were  claiming.
Hastings didnt accept  that they were responsible for Mr D selling his car at a loss. They felt 
that he had other options at the time.  But Mr D said that hed nowhere to put his car off road 
so as not to have to insure it and that he was away at the time. 
But he said to the investigator that he wasnt away for a long time. It seems unlikely that 
Mr D had no option to obtain alternative insurance  by phone or online.  So I dont think  that 
Hastingss actions meant that he had to sell his car right away  or that Hastings were  to 
blame for any loss there.
However Hastings accepted  that there were some things that they hadnt done right. When 
they discovered that Mr Ds NCD had expired  and his annual mileage had been recorded 
Ref: DRN21850632incorrectly, they should have talked to him before they increased his premium.  And if he 
didnt agree, his policy  could  have  been cancelled then without penalty, rather than 
cancelled for non-payment  after Mr D cancelled his direct debit. I agree with that. I see from 
Hastingss records that they do seem  to have given Mr D the cancellation option in a letter, 
but I think they could  have  done more to engage  with him about their planned  premium  
increase and his options, given its implications for him. 
Hastings also accepted that theyd  wrongly  calculated what Mr D owed them  after his policy 
was cancelled .This was because  theyd  calculated it on their new revised premium, and 
included policy charges arising from that revision, rather  than calculating it on the original 
premium Mr D had agreed to pay. This meant that Hastings had wrongly  told Mr D that he 
owed them over £500.00 and pursued  him for that, when he really  owed  only £65.55.  
Hastings offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to write off the £65.55  that Mr D owed, so that he 
would no longer owe them anything. They  also said that the issue wouldnt have any effect 
on Mr Ds credit rating and the cancellation  wouldnt go on insurance databases. 
They also offered to pay Mr D £65.55  in compensation  for the inconvenience theyd caused 
him, and to refund him another £37.07  to reflect their backdating his period of insurance to 
the date he sold his car. This meant Hastings offered to pay Mr D a total of £102.62. It 
appears that Hastings  have already  paid him that. 
But I dont think that Hastings compensation offer is reasonable. Hastings say that their 
process for debt collection would  have been the same whether theyd asked Mr D for the 
£65.55 he correctly owed then, or the more than £500 they mistakenly thought he owed. 
They didnt think hed have  paid the correct amount  of £65.55 either. 
But I dont think thats a fair or reasonable assumption for them  to make.  Its entirely possible 
that Mr D would have  paid the correct  amount had Hastings fairly shown him that it was 
owed. Instead  they wrongly requested and pursued  him for a much higher amount  than that, 
which he knew he hadnt agreed to. And hes clearly been  very stressed by being asked to 
pay so much. And so I think to compensate him fairly for the distress  and inconvenience  
theyve caused  him, Hastings should  write off what he does owe under  his policy, and refund 
him £37.07.  But in addition they should pay him compensation of £150 to reflect  the distress 
and inconvenience  their actions caused  him. Hastings can deduct  from that amount the 
£102.62 if theyve  already  paid it to Mr D and hes cashed it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I partly uphold  this complaint 
and I require Hastings  Insurance Services Limited  to do the following:. 
Pay Mr D £37.07 plus interest  at 8% simple per annum from the date Mr D sold 
his car  until the date Hastings pay him
Pay  Mr D £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience
If Hastings have  already paid Mr D £102.62 and he has cashed it, they may 
deduct that amount from the total of the above amounts they should pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Ref: DRN21850633Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Hastings must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mr D 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Hastings consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr D how much they have taken off, and give Mr D a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2185063