K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
The circumstances leading to Ms Ds complaint, together  with my initial  findings,  were set 
out in my provisional  decision of 8 May 2019,  a copy of which  is attached. Neither  party 
responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision in this case.
As neither Ms D nor Santander made  any comments or sent me further information following 
the issue of my provisional  decision, I see no reason to change  it. 
I find that Santander didnt mis-sell  the MPPI. But Santander should pay back some  of the 
cost of the MPPI to Ms D because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms D about that. Because Santander didnt tell Ms D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander should pay back to Ms D any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Santander should also pay back  to Ms D any extra interest 
she paid because of that. 
Santander should pay back to Ms D the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander should also pay 
Ms D 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax
Ref: DRN28271912my final decision
My decision  is that the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms D. But I order Santander UK Plc to pay back to Ms D 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28271913Provisional Decision
complaint 
Ms D complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection  insurance, 
(MPPI), policy.
background
Ms D took out the MPPI  during a meeting at the same time as she took out a mortgage. The monthly 
premiums were about £20. And, following a successful claim, the policy would  have paid out about 
£340 a month  had Ms D been off work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. Broadly this was because  of a 
pre-existing medical condition which  Ms D said she had at the time of the
sale and which he thought wouldnt have been covered by the policy. Our adjudicator felt that 
Santander shouldnt  have recommended the policy  to Ms D without pointing  this out. And, if 
Santander had done so, he thought that Ms D wouldnt have  taken the policy. 
As Santander disagreed  with our adjudicators view the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website.  Ive followed this in making my decision.
Ive provisionally decided that the MPPI wasnt mis-sold. I explain  why below.
Ms D says she thought she had to have the MPPI,  as part and parcel of the loan. But Ive concluded  
that Ms D probably knew  that the MPPI was optional  and that she chose to take it. I say this because 
Ive seen Santanders record of the matters  discussed  with Ms D at the meeting when the policy was 
sold. This has a section  setting out the summary  of general insurance products sold. I can see that 
the yes box relating  to MPPI has been  ticked and the no boxes alongside  and below  it, which were  
to be completed if this insurance was declined, have been left blank. Ms D signed the form, so I think  
its likely  to be an accurate  record of what shed  discussed  and decided.  Ive also seen the letter  from 
Santander to Ms D the same  day, summarising  what took place  at the meeting. This says that we 
agreed a MPPI policy. And it goes on to set out the premium and monthly  benefit.
Santander recommended the policy  to Ms D. This means that it had to take reasonable  steps to 
ensure that it was suitable for her needs. From  what I know about Ms Ds circumstances and the 
terms and conditions  of the policy, I find that it was suitable because:
Ms D was eligible for the MPPI;
.
The policy  was reasonably priced by reference to other  similar policies available  in
the market at the time and I havent  seen anything to suggest that Ms D couldnt  afford  it. In any 
event, had she decided later that the premiums werent  affordable, or that she no longer wanted 
the policy,  Ms D could have cancelled it at any time without further cost,  because it was paid for 
monthly;
Ref: DRN28271914The policy  wouldnt  have paid out if Ms D had been off work because of a health condition  which 
she knew  about at the time her application for cover was accepted.  I dont know  whether 
Santander pointed this out clearly to Ms D before she decided to take the MPPI. If it didnt  this 
may have  mattered  to Ms D because she has told us that she had suffered from a particular  
condition since birth. So, had Santander highlighted  this exclusion to Ms D, its possible that she 
might have declined the policy because she wouldnt have been able to claim on it in all the 
circumstances that she might otherwise have expected to have been able to; 
However, Ms D has told us that she has regular  visits to her GP and medication for her condition.  
And, although  she has had short periods  off work  because  of illnesses resulting from the 
condition, it doesnt affect her day-to-day life. From this I conclude that, at the time of the sale,  Ms 
D was unlikely to have considered that the condition  was of such a nature that she was likely to 
have needed to claim  against the policy for anything arising from it. I say this particularly bearing 
in mind that the MPPI didnt pay out for the first 30 days of any disability, and Ms D has told us 
that her periods off work because of the condition  were of only a few days. And shed still have 
been covered for other  health issues, or if she lost her job. So I think that Santanders  
recommendation was reasonable;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms D was adversely affected by any of the policys  other 
main restrictions  and limitations   such as those affecting someone  who was self-employed;
Ms D says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer. And she has also told us she had 
critical illness cover. (This pays out in different  circumstances from MPPI.) But she hasnt 
mentioned that she had any other insurance or savings to help her make  her mortgage payments 
if shed been off work . Following a successful claim the policy would  have paid out for up to 12 
months if she been unable to work  because of accident, sickness or unemployment, on top of any 
sick pay or redundancy payment she got. This would have left any employment  benefits available 
to help with her other expenses  whilst  she wasnt working. So Im satisfied that the MPPI could  
have been of use to her.
Santander had to give Ms D clear, fair and not-misleading information  about  the policy  so that she 
could make an informed decision whether to buy it. The letter to which  Ive already referred showed  
the monthly premium and benefit of the MPPI. I dont know what else Santander told Ms D about  the 
MPPI. Its possible that it didnt tell her everything else that it needed to. But, as Ive concluded that it 
was suitable for her needs and that she chose to take it, I dont think  that better information would 
have stopped  her buying it. I say this particularly  bearing  in mind the serious  consequences that could 
have arisen  had she been  unable to make the mortgage repayments on her home.
As Ive explained, Ive considered everything that Ms D has told us, including  that a member of her 
family would have helped with her mortgage repayments had she not been working. However we set 
out our approach to this sort of potential help on our website and Ive seen nothing  in the information  I 
have on this complaint which makes me feel I should deviate from that approach. So this and Ms Ds 
other comments so far dont change my provisional decision that the policy wasnt  mis-sold.
But Santander  should pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Ms D because: 
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI premium)  
- so it should have told Ms D about that. Because Santander didnt  tell Ms D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN28271915what the business needs to do
I intend  to tell Santander to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI premium. Santander should also pay back  to Ms D any extra interest she paid 
because of that. 
Santander should pay back to Ms D the extra  she paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander should  also pay Ms D 8%* 
simple interest  on each payment.
*Santander has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms D can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any other evidence or comments I get from Ms D or Santander, as above,  my provisional 
decision is that the MPPI  wasnt mis-sold   so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Ms D. But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms D any commission  and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Ref: DRN2827191