K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy he was charged to cancel his insurance policy with Saga Services Limited.
background
Mr H emailed Saga on 19 November 2018, telling them hed had a cheaper  quote, and 
asking what the process  was for cancelling his policy.  Saga replied the following day, telling 
him they just needed the date Mr H wanted  to cancel the policy.  Mr H told Saga hed like 
cancellation on the earliest date you allow.
Saga cancelled the policy on 21 November  and emailed Mr H to tell him this had been  done. 
They then sent him a letter dated  26 November, telling him his cancellation fees were 
£45.41. Mr H has complained that Saga didnt tell him about the cancellation  fees before 
they cancelled  his policy.
Our investigator found Saga  had acted reasonably. She felt cancellation fees were a normal  
part of insurance  practice,  so charging  them wasnt unreasonable. She also felt that, while it 
wouldve been helpful for Saga to have told Mr H about the cancellation fees when he asked 
about cancellation, they had told him he would be charged cancellation  fees when he took 
out the policy. She didnt think that Saga telling Mr H about  these fees in November 2018 
wouldve stopped  him cancelling the policy, because hed found a cheaper  policy,  so she 
wouldnt be asking Saga to waive the fees.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He felt Saga had a duty of care to tell him about the 
fees when he asked about  cancellation, and shouldve asked him if he still wanted to go 
ahead. This case  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen copies  of the insurance renewal letters, dated 26 July and 6 August 2018,  which  
Saga sent to Mr H. Under the heading what you will pay us for our services? both of these 
letters confirm:
We will charge the following administration fees:
£25 fee for arranging  your policy (non refundable)
£14.25 for any changes
£35 if you cancel  your policy after 14 days of the policy  start date
The 26 July letter also confirmed If you no longer  feel the policy  is right for you, you may 
cancel it within 14 days of receiving  your policy documents. If cover has not yet commenced, 
you will receive a full refund of the total cost. If the insurance cover has commenced, your
insurer will give you a pro-rata refund on your premium based on the cover  you have had. 
The arrangement fee is non-refundable.
Ref: DRN21034962After the first 14 days, if the policy no longer meets your needs, you can still cancel at any 
time. As long as you have not made a claim under the policy,  or a claim has not been made 
against you, your insurer will refund the unused part of your premium. The arrangement fee 
is non-refundable. If you have made  a claim,  or a claim has been  made  against  you, you will 
not receive a refund. Saga will charge  an administration fee of £35.
Ive also seen the final complaint response  letter sent to Mr H in January 2019. This letter  
says that the cancellation  costs are made up of the £25 non-refundable  arrangement fee, the 
£35 cancellation  fee and the cost of the cover from renewal to cancellation, less the 
premiums paid by Mr H between renewal and cancellation. This totals £45.41. Saga also 
says that, because the fees are shown  on the policy document, theyre not required to 
confirm these costs when they receive a cancellation request.
I feel that in their email  of 20 November 2018,  where Saga told Mr H what the process for 
cancellation was, they couldve also told him there  would be cancellation fees payable. I 
accept that the actual  cancellation fees couldnt be calculated until the date on cancellation  
was known, but Saga wouldve known they were  charging at least the £35 fee and (unlike 
the arrangement  fee) this wouldnt  have  been  factored in with the policy premiums. So Mr H 
would always have  been charged cancellation  fees.
But Saga doesnt have  any regulatory  or other  requirement to confirm the cancellation fees 
before cancellation.  So I need  to consider if Saga made their Mr H aware there  would be 
cancellation fees in the policy  documents they sent him, including  any administration  fees,  
and how these would likely be calculated. They did this, so I cant  say they did anything  
wrong in not also telling Mr H about the cancellation  fees in November 2018. So I wont be 
asking them to reduce or waive these fees.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Saga Services  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2103496