K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about Vanquis Bank Limited  (Vanquis) for increasing  his credit limit on his 
credit card, despite  being aware of his increased debt and greater spending on gambling. He 
wants Vanquis to refund  interest and charges applied to the increased  balance and to 
remove late payment and default  markers  from his credit file.
background
I set out the background  to this matter, and my provisional views, in a provisional decision 
issued in May 2020. That decision  is attached. 
In that decision,  I explained that I thought that the complaint should be upheld, and that 
Vanquis was wrong to increase Mr Cs credit  limit in the circumstances. I explained  that, in 
order to put things right, I thought that Vanquis  ought to refund all interest charged on Mr Cs 
balance above  £150 from October  2017 onwards, to pay him interest on the sums refunded, 
and to pay him £50 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision was shared  with the parties and they were given the opportunity  to 
comment and to submit further evidence.  
Mr C has responded, indicating that he is happy with the decision and has nothing further to 
add. 
Vanquis has responded making further comments, and disagreeing with the provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis submits that during the period from November 2016 up until October 2017, Vanquis  
monitored Mr Cs application  history in applying for borrowing. It submits that by October 
2017, Mr C was substantially less credit hungry than he had been at earlier dates, and that 
he had not made any applications for short term borrowing in the previous 3 months.  
Vanquis also points  to the fact that, following Mr C missing or being late on his payment 
date, he cleared the full balance. Vanquis submits that these factors  demonstrate  that Mr C 
was not experiencing financial difficulty. Finally,  it submits  that it considered the minimum 
repayments affordable,  and that when Mr C has exceeded his limit, this has been  due to 
cash advance fees being added to gambling transactions, rather  than a lack of affordability.  
I have considered these  submissions, but these do not substantially  change my view. In my 
provisional decision I set out that it appeared that Vanquis considered the risk of lending to 
Mr C and were  satisfied  that he would be able to repay his debt, but that I could not see that 
Vanquis considered  what, if any benefit,  there would be to Mr C from increasing  his debt 
facility proactively. 
To be clear, I have not considered this complaint as one of financial difficulties, as Mr C has 
not indicated that he is unable to repay  his debt. If he finds himself in financial difficulties and 
communicates this to Vanquis, I would expect  Vanquis to respond to his situation positively 
Ref: DRN26700782and sympathetically. Mr Cs complaint  was that the additional lending  to him was 
irresponsible in the circumstances. 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I consider that the unsolicited  increase in 
lending facility to Mr C, in October 2017, was irresponsible in light of Mr Cs overall 
indebtedness and his management  of the account  over the previous 11 months. Vanquiss 
submissions have not changed  my view. 
Consequently, I adopt my provisional decision and reasons,  as supplemented by this 
decision, as my final decision. 
my final decision
As set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Cs complaint about  Vanquis  
Bank Limited  and I direct that: 
Vanquis Bank Limited refund  all interest  charged on Mr Cs balance above  £150, 
from October 2017 onwards. Interest at the rate of 8% ought  to be added  to any 
refunded sum from the date of payment  up until the date of settlement.
Any refunded  charges  and interest can be offset  against Mr Cs outstanding  credit 
card balance,  if applicable; and
Vanquis pay to Mr C £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2670078