K822xcomplaint
Ms B was a member of a group private  medical  insurance scheme  with 
BUPA Insurance Limited via her previous employer. She complains that BUPA  refused to 
offer her a personal policy with continuation of cover.   
background 
Ms Bs job was made  redundant in May 2017.  BUPA tells me that Ms Bs membership of a 
group private medical insurance  scheme  ended in June 2017. One of the terms of the group 
scheme was that BUPA may offer a personal  policy with continuation of membership within 
three months of leaving the group scheme.  
In 2017, both whilst still a member of the group scheme and shortly after her membership 
ended, Ms B contacted  BUPA about continuation of membership by phone and e-mail. She 
feels that she did enough to get continuation  of cover. 
In June 2018, Ms B phoned  BUPA again and asked for a quote  for continuation of cover. 
BUPA said that it couldnt offer continuation  of cover as Ms Bs membership of the group 
scheme had ended too long ago. BUPA said that it could offer Ms B cover as a new 
member. 
Ms B wants continuation  of cover, including cover for pre-existing conditions. 
One of our investigators  assessed Ms Bs complaint. He said that whilst Ms B tried to contact 
BUPA to discuss her options, cover wasnt set up within the three month  time limit, so he 
couldnt reasonably ask BUPA to provide  continuation of cover.  
Ms B didnt agree with our investigator. She said that she did all she could to contact BUPA  
and had provided adequate information  to show that she contacted  BUPA within  the three 
month time scale. BUPA agreed to pay Ms B compensation of £100  in relation to poor 
service, which  our investigator thought was fair. Ms B didnt  agree.  
As there is no agreement  between the parties,  Ms Bs complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPAs membership guide includes the following  which reflects  its general  approach  to 
continuation of cover in a situation where  an employee leaves a BUPA  group scheme: 
When  your membership [] ends,  we may be able to offer you [] continuation of 
membership on Bupa personal policy as an ex-group scheme member depending  
upon how long you [] have been  a Bupa group  scheme  member.  This would allow  
you [] to transfer without any additional  special conditions if you [] transferred 
within three months of leaving  the group scheme, without any break in cover. If you 
would like to consider this option please  call 0800 600 500 to discuss  it with us.
Ref: DRN27127092Its common ground that Ms B attempted to contact BUPA about continuation of cover  during 
her membership of the group scheme and shortly after her membership of the group scheme 
ended. Clearly, something went wrong  in the communication between Ms B and BUPA. 
BUPA didnt  return Ms Bs call in May 2017and  it didnt respond to her subsequent e-mails. 
BUPA has offered to pay Ms B compensation of £100 in relation to its poor service. I think 
thats fair. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Ms Bs recent  accident and I understand that she would like the 
benefit of BUPA cover but there  are no grounds on which to direct  BUPA  to provide her with 
continuation of cover. Thats because the onus  was on Ms B to continue to pursue the 
matter until BUPA had considered her request for a personal policy within  the time limit. I 
understand the reasons  Ms B didnt  do so - shes explained that she was looking for a new 
job. I dont doubt  that she was also frustrated  by the poor service  she received. But as Ms B 
didnt transfer  to a personal policy within three  months of leaving the group scheme, BUPA 
isnt obliged to offer continuation of cover now.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint in part. I now require BUPA  Insurance 
Limited to pay Ms B compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2712709