K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC will not refund any of the commission  it received 
from his PPI premiums for the policy that he took out in 2003 to cover  his mortgage that was 
amended in 2008.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Ps complaint about commission. 
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mr P took out PPI with further  borrowing  on his mortgage in 2003.  From  the information 
Lloyds has provided,  Mr P also took out a further  advance in 2008.  Lloyds  has told us the 
entire mortgage became regulated at that point. Based on what  we have seen and what we 
know about how Lloyds  arranged this further  borrowing,  Im satisfied  that Mr Ps mortgage 
did become regulated.
Mr P has said that the loan agreement from 2003 simply continued uninterrupted and 
therefore should be subject to the FCAs rules. But this is not the case.  The agreement for 
the further borrowing in 2008 brought together all of the previous borrowing under  the new 
agreement. This is made clear in the 2008 loan agreement  where  it states Current 
mortgage (to form part of your new loan).
As Mr Ps mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr P paid for the PPI he had with his 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN25160752 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ps particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different. But I dont think there is so 
I wont be telling Lloyds  to do anything.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2516075