K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited unnecessarily  delayed payment of a 
claim under a policy she held jointly with her late husband, Mr M. 
background
In April 2018, Mr M was diagnosed  with an advanced melanoma with brain and adrenal  
metastasis. His consultant, Dr B, explained that the treatment hed proposed for Mr M was 
for palliative purposes. He told Mr M his life expectancy  could vary, but in some patients it 
could be 12 months or less. 
Mrs M had jointly  held a term assurance  plan with Mr M since  2006, which  included  a 
terminal illness benefit. Mrs M contacted  Aviva  around the time Mr M received his diagnosis 
to raise a claim. Aviva wrote to Dr B for some more  information, and referred the available 
medical evidence  to its chief medical  officer  (CMO).  It also got a second  opinion from its 
reinsurers CMO. 
Aviva then got back in touch with Dr B to ask more  about Mr Ms treatment options. It 
reached a conclusion that, as it stood, it didnt have enough  information to say Mr M had a 
life expectancy of 12 months  or less, which was a requirement of the policy. It told Mrs M it 
would make an interim payment of £35,000 and suspend premium  collections while  it 
monitored Mr Ms response to the treatment proposed by Dr B. 
Shortly afterwards, Mrs M told Aviva  that Mr M had been admitted to hospital  following a 
seizure, and scans revealed  that the lesions  in his brain had grown. Aviva confirmed this 
with Dr B and agreed to pay the remainder of the claim settlement shortly afterwards. 
Mrs M complained to Aviva  about its handling of the claim. She felt the initial  information  
Aviva received from Dr B shouldve been enough to validate  the claim, and that it hadnt 
justified why it wanted to wait and see how Mr M responded to palliative treatment. She said 
Aviva prolonged the claim unnecessarily, which caused her a lot of distress. 
Mrs M also complained that shed  been  misled about timescales and passed between claims 
handlers. Aviva acknowledged it couldve appointed a single point of contact,  and agreed  it 
couldve explained things  better. It made  a payment  of £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint, so she asked our service  to look into 
it. Our investigator felt Aviva had acted fairly and within  the terms and conditions of the 
policy. He said Aviva had taken a pragmatic approach  by making  an interim payment while it 
awaited further information.  He identified some customer service failings, but didnt think 
Aviva need  to pay any more compensation to Mrs M than it had already. As Mrs M didnt  
agree, the matter  has been passed to me to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, and although I recognise that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mrs M, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The policy Mrs M held jointly with her late husband provided a benefit in the event that the 
Life Insured is diagnosed  as suffering from an advanced or rapidly  progressing  and incurable 
condition (the Terminal  Illness) which is, in the opinion of the Companys medical adviser, 
Ref: DRN27429332such that the life expectancy of the Life Insured is no greater than twelve  months from the 
date the condition is notified  to the Company by the Planholder. 
When making a claim, it is for the policyholder  to show its more  likely than not that their 
diagnosis meets the requirements of their particular policy. So, in this case, Mr and Mrs M 
needed to provide information that satisfied Aviva (and its CMO) that Mr M had a life 
expectancy of 12 months or less.  
In April 2018, Dr B wrote to Mr M explaining  that his life expectancy could vary, however in 
some patients could be 12 months or less. Mrs M passed a copy of this letter to Aviva in 
support of the claim.  
Dr Bs letter didnt provide an explanation of which patients could have a life expectancy of 
12 months or less, or whether he included Mr M within that group. And in my opinion, to say 
a patient could have a life expectancy of 12 months  or less isnt enough to meet the burden 
of proof  set out above. The policyholder needs to establish that its more  likely that they have 
a life expectancy of 12 months or less. The only comment specific  to Mr Ms life expectancy  
was that it could vary. 
Aviva took the steps Id have expected it to by referring the available medical evidence to its 
CMO, a specialist in oncology. The CMO  was given additional context that the cancer  had 
reportedly spread  to Mr Ms bones,  spleen  and stomach. The CMO said he would be minded 
to agree Mr M had a life expectancy of 12 months  or less if Aviva  could  obtain  confirmation 
that his cancer  was rapidly progressing and that he was now too ill for immunotherapy. 
Aviva also asked another CMO, a professor  in oncology, for a second opinion. The second 
CMO felt that he would  need to see how Mr M responded to the proposed treatment 
(immunotherapy) before agreeing that Mr Ms life expectancy was 12 months or less, adding  
that survival statistics for Mr Ms patient  group were  a moving picture. 
Aviva followed  the first CMOs  advice and contacted Dr B for more  information. Dr Bs 
secretary confirmed that Mr M wasnt too ill for immunotherapy treatment,  and it was still 
Dr Bs intention for Mr M to undergo this as planned.  Dr B dictated  a further letter  in support 
of the claim, saying  that Mr Ms life expectancy  could be 12 months or less. 
This letter was more specific than Dr Bs previous letter in that it said Mr M (rather than 
some patients) could  have a life expectancy of 12 months or less. Im satisfied  that Aviva 
made appropriate and expedient attempts to assess the validity of the claim.  It concluded 
that, as it stood, the policy definition of terminal illness hadnt been  met. Looking at the 
evidence that was available to Aviva  at that time,  I think  that was reasonable.  
So for it to have offered to make  a partial payment to Mrs M, outside of the policy terms, to 
help with her financial  commitments was a particularly  positive step and one that Aviva 
wasnt obliged to take. I can see that Aviva  later increased its original offer following a 
conversation with Mrs M, to enable  her to reduce her mortgage  repayments by half. 
In making this interim offer, Aviva told Mrs M it would keep the claim under review and seek  
regular updates on Mr Ms treatment. Mrs Ms representative has said that, in medical  terms, 
there was no justification for this. He highlighted  that the immunotherapy treatment was 
intended to make Mr M more comfortable,  not to make him better. 
Ref: DRN27429333But it was for Mr and Mrs M to show Mr Ms diagnosis met the policy  requirements, not for 
Aviva to show it didnt. As the evidence they provided didnt meet the policy  term at that 
stage Im satisfied that Aviva treated Mr and Mrs M fairly in making the interim offer.  
In any event, it does  seem that Aviva was following the advice set out by the two CMOs  it 
had consulted. They both felt unable  to agree that Mr M had a life expectancy of less than 12 
months without confirmation that he either  wasnt responding  well to the immunotherapy 
treatment, or that he wasnt fit to continue with it.  
Aviva also agreed to suspend premium  collections for the policy to help ease the pressure  
that was on Mrs M financially. It looks like something then went wrong, which led to a 
premium being collected  the following month.  Aviva  refunded the premium by cheque within 
a couple of weeks. But given that Mrs M wouldnt have been expecting  the premium  to be 
collected, I think this wouldve  caused  her some  worry. And having to cash the cheque 
wouldve been an inconvenience.  
When Mrs M got back in touch with Aviva  in early June 2018 to explain that Mr Ms condition 
had worsened, the claim seems to have progressed towards a final settlement reasonably 
quickly. At this point, Dr B was able to provide a much more  detailed explanation of Mr Ms 
prognosis and life expectancy. 
He said that, without treatment, patients  with Mr Ms condition who presented with visceral  
disease had a medium survival rate of six to nine months. He clarified  that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence from clinical trials to conclude that in Mr Ms case, this would be 
prolonged by immunotherapy. 
Im satisfied that this was the first time that Aviva had sufficient evidence to accept the claim. 
Up until this point,  Dr B had only said that Mr Ms life expectancy  could be less than 12 
months. The medium survival rate mentioned in this letter  refers  to the amount of time after 
which 50% of patients have survived  and 50% havent. Dr B confirmed that the medium  
survival rate for patients with Mr Ms symptoms was less than 12 months.  This gave  Avivas  
CMO enough information to be satisfied that Mr Ms life expectancy was more  likely to be 12 
months or less, so he recommended  that the remaining settlement should  be paid. 
In all, it took Aviva two months to settle the claim.  I appreciate  how anxious Mrs M must 
have been during that time. And I know that ideally she hoped  the settlement could be paid 
in time for it to be enjoyed by the whole family. But taking the medical evidence  into account, 
I dont think there were any unreasonable, unnecessary or avoidable delays on Avivas  part. 
And I think it took into account  Mrs Ms difficult circumstances  when  it offered to make an 
interim payment outside of the policy terms. 
Mrs M has said she was led to believe  the claim could be settled within 21 days. While I 
accept that this was her understanding, I havent  seen any evidence to support this in the 
correspondence she had with Aviva. Rather,  it seems to have acted within  the timeframes it 
gave to Mrs M at each stage of its investigation into the claim. 
There are things Aviva couldve done  better here.  Whether  or not the claim was payable  at 
that time there was no doubt that Mr M was very ill and this must have been a very difficult 
time for the family.  A single point  of contact wouldve streamlined the claims process for 
Mrs M, which I think wouldve been helpful given that she was trying to support her family at 
the same  time. And as mentioned above, it was unhelpful that a premium  was taken when 
Mrs M was led to believe that collections had been  suspended. But I think  Aviva recognised 
Ref: DRN27429334these shortcomings  in its final response  letter, and made a reasonable offer of compensation 
to put things right. So while I appreciate this will be disappointing news for Mrs M, Im not 
directing Aviva to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2742933