K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) didnt close his account as hed 
requested in 2006 and it didnt tell him about the balance that was owed on the account until 
2018.
background 
Mr R says he asked Barclays to close his account  in 2006 and he paid off the balance  that 
was owed at that time. It wasnt until Barclays wrote to him in 2018  offering to refund some 
interest, fees and charges that had been  added, he realised there was still an outstanding 
balance. He was then told that he owed  Barclays over £3,000.
Barclays accepts it did something wrong by not writing to Mr R to let him know about the 
outstanding balance. Its now offered to write off the entire  outstanding  balance on his 
account and to close it. Our adjudicator  thought this was a fair way to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint.
Mr R thinks Barclays  should do more. He wants to know why the account wasnt  closed and 
why Barclays didnt  write to him sooner. He also thinks Barclays  should pay him 
compensation for the upset hes been  caused  particularly by the debt collection activities  
its taken.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and I will explain my 
reasoning. 
Mr R and Barclays agree that Mr R requested to cancel his current account in 2006. Mr R 
says he believed it had closed, until he was notified many years later that it was still open. 
Barclays says it was unable to close it as there was an outstanding  balance. 
Given how long ago it was, theres no way of knowing what happened in 2006.  But what  is 
clear is that the account was never closed - whether this was due to an error  on Barclays 
part or its because  Mr R didnt pay off the outstanding  balance.
Barclays shouldve notified Mr R of the outstanding balance  and accruing charges  on his 
account. Both Barclays and Mr R agree that regular  statements about his account  were not 
sent to him between  2006 and 2016. Barclays accepts  it shouldve  done this, and explained 
that this happened due to a systems error.  
If such correspondence had been sent to Mr R, he wouldve been  notified  that his account 
was still open  and that charges and fees were accruing.  This couldve prompted him to close  
the account and deal with the charges much sooner. 
To put things right, Barclays has offered to clear  the outstanding balance and close  Mr Rs 
account if thats what he wants to do. I think this is fair in the circumstances and means  that 
Mr R is in the same financial position  he would have  been in if his account had been closed 
in 2006.
Ref: DRN24863082Ive thought about what Mr R has said about  the stress that Barclays  actions have caused 
him. Hes particularly unhappy with the debt collection letters he has continued  to receive 
from Barclays. I appreciate this must have been stressful  for him, but I must  also bear in 
mind that Mr R was unaware  that his account  was still open, and accruing charges, for over 
ten years. I note that once  this complaint was brought to our service, Barclays  made  its offer 
to put things right relatively quickly. So I dont award  any additional compensation here.  
Barclays has said the debt collection letters  are automated and will continue  to be sent while 
there is an outstanding  balance  on the account.  It has said that once the offer is accepted 
the account balance will be cleared,  and the account  will close. I think this is reasonable.
I assure Mr R that Ive thought carefully about all of the information  available  to me. But on 
balance I think Barclays offer is enough to put things right here. Barclays will make 
arrangements to clear  the outstanding balance on Mr Rs account, and following this close  
the account. I dont  think  it needs  to do anymore.
my final decision
The offer Barclays has made to Mr R is fair and reasonable and I dont award  Mr R any 
additional compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2486308