K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how her insurer, Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has settled 
her home insurance claim.
background
In June 2016, Ms Cs house was badly damaged due to a fire. Following a buildings  claim to 
L&G the property  was repaired, and she was able to move home after a stay in alternative 
accommodation. But theres an outstanding issue in relation to the settlement of her contents 
claim. And its this Ms C has asked us to consider.  
Ms C appointed a loss assessor to handle  her claim with L&G,  and hes also representing 
her on this complaint.  
L&G agreed to settle  the contents claim for the total sum insured. Within this it included  the 
amount it paid its agent to have Ms Cs damaged clothes dry cleaned. The cost of which  was 
£4,706.09.  
Ms C doesnt think the cost of the dry cleaning should be included  because she says the dry 
cleaning didnt restore her clothes. She complains the clothes still smelt of smoke when they 
were given back to her. Following this, Ms C says she returned the clothes  to her property so 
they could be catalogued  and disposed of along with other  items  which were beyond  
economic repair. Her loss assessor has said the items were disposed  of in November 2016 
with L&Gs  consent.  But L&G disputes  this and has said only items  beyond economic repair 
were disposed of, which  didnt include Ms Cs clothes as they were  salvageable.
Ms Cs unhappy that L&G didnt seek her or her loss assessors approval before  going 
ahead with the dry cleaning  something  they specifically asked L&G to do. Her loss 
assessor has said approval of the works  was particularly  important  as the sum insured was 
marginal. He added Ms C wouldve agreed to a cash settlement had she known the dry 
cleaning was going to be unsuccessful.  
L&G has said that after learning Ms C was dissatisfied with the dry cleaning in                      
December 2016,  it contacted her and her loss assessor to arrange for the clothes to be 
reassessed, but neither  Ms C nor her loss assessor responded. Ms Cs loss assessor said 
the clothes had already been disposed of so L&Gs attempts were  superfluous.  
L&G offered  to resolve the complaint by waiving £1,400  which it says was still owed to it by 
Ms C as shed retained the alternative  accommodation deposit. It said the offer took into 
account Ms Cs overall claim experience, including the difficulties  shed experienced with her 
alterative accommodation (which  are separate to the issues raised  in this complaint), and 
that it hadnt sought her consent before going ahead with the dry cleaning. But L&G 
maintained it had acted in the parameters of the policy terms and conditions by going ahead  
with the dry cleaning.  
Ms C didnt think this was fair and so brought the complaint to our service.  L&G has since 
withdrawn its offer.  Ms C wants  the costs incurred  for the dry cleaning to be paid to her.  
Our investigator said it was unfair for L&G to include the cost of the dry cleaning  in the total 
sum insured. She said the sum insured shouldnt be affected by what  L&G had to pay to its 
contractors to carry out work for attempted cleaning . She explained that Ms Cs loss 
Ref: DRN20136332assessor had made it clear to L&G he wanted  to see the costs involved prior to the dry 
cleaning going  ahead,  and this hadnt happened. She later added  that L&G should add 8% 
interest to the cost of the dry cleaning and this should be calculated from the date the final 
settlement was made to the date the payment is made.
L&G disagreed with our investigators opinion. It said it was entitled  to include the dry 
cleaning costs as this was to restore Ms Cs clothes. It said Ms C hadnt contacted the dry 
cleaners to say she was unhappy with the work.  L&G added  that once it became aware of 
her dissatisfaction it attempted a number of times to contact Ms C and her loss assessor  for 
further information and to arrange an assessment of the items, but neither party responded. 
So it feels  it did everything it could  in the situation. 
I attempted  to resolve this complaint informally, and initially said I was minded to uphold  this 
complaint on the basis that I wasnt satisfied the dry cleaning provided  a lasting and effective 
repair. On that basis  I considered it unfair  to include the cost of the dry cleaning  in the total 
sum insured. But as the parties  were unable to mutually agree  a way forward,  the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision. In my provisional  decision  I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said above,  Im minded to 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
First, I want to say that I appreciate this claim has been going  on for a long period  of 
time. Having  stemmed from an event which was undoubtedly very stressful  for her, I 
appreciate Ms C will want to be able to draw  a line under it.  
Before I consider whether L&G has acted fairly by including the cost of the dry 
cleaning in the total sum insured, I need to be satisfied  that having  the clothes dry 
cleaned was a reasonable course of action in the first instance. 
Ive looked at the policy document  and it says:
We will at our option: i) replace as new; ii) pay the cost to us of replacing as 
new; iii) repair,  or iv) pay the cost of us to repair
The policy document also says that L&G can choose to use a repairer  or 
replacement supplier of its choice. 
Ultimately this means its up to L&G to decide  how it wants to put things  right. L&G 
has said that its agent has successfully dry cleaned clothes in a similar  condition  to 
those of Ms C, and so it had no reason  to believe it wouldnt work. Ive not seen  
anything to suggest this was an unreasonable belief  to hold, and so I dont think  L&G 
acted unfairly by attempting to have  the clothes dry cleaned in the first instance as 
this was in line with the terms of the policy.
Ref: DRN20136333did the repair works provide a lasting and effective repair?
Next, I need to consider whether the repair works put Ms C back  in the position she 
wouldve been had the damage not occurred. To achieve this, the repairs needed to 
be lasting and effective.  This means fully putting  right the damage and for an 
appropriate amount  of time. 
The clothes were  dry cleaned in September  2016.  In an email  from Ms C to her loss 
assessor dated 19 September 2016, she says the clothes have  a very strong smell 
of smoke and are unwearable.  Her loss assessor replies If the clothes have not fully 
responded to attempts,  then they need to be included in the overall  contents  claim. 
In early October 2016, Ms C tells her loss assessor that the clothes are not 
responding to cleaning  attempts which shes arranged herself and asks if she should 
throw them away. Her loss assessor  advises her to return  the unwanted items to the 
house so they can be catalogued and disposed of along with the other  contents.  
Ive also seen call notes  which show Ms C contacted L&G in December 2016 to say 
her clothes still smelt of smoke.  
Based on this Im satisfied  the dry cleaning didnt provide a lasting and effective 
repair as even after having the clothes  dry cleaned herself, the smell of smoke was 
still present. 
should the cost of the dry cleaning be included in the sum insured?
It would ordinarily follow that where  the repair isnt lasing and effective, it would be 
unfair for the cost of the attempted repair to be included in the total sum insured. 
Thats because it didnt  put the consumer  back in the position they were in before the 
damage occurred.
But in this instance theres  conflicting  information about what  happened to the 
clothing after it was dry cleaned.  In order to ask L&G to reimburse the cost of the dry 
cleaning, I need  to be satisfied that:
Ms C met her obligations under the policy and didnt prejudice L&Gs ability to 
have the clothes reassessed, and that
L&G had prejudiced Ms Cs position by not offering to have the matter  
reviewed.
The policy terms say the policy  holder  must not dispose of any damaged  contents  or 
parts of building  without  our permission.   
Ms Cs loss assessor says the clothes were  returned to the risk address and 
disposed of with L&Gs consent. Hes referred me to an email dated October 2016, in 
which L&Gs  loss adjusters says I think we can safely say that [Agent 1] have failed 
to achieve anything. It goes on to say therefore  please proceed with the estimate 
from [the contractor] to clear and catalogue the contents.
Ref: DRN20136334But having  considered this, I dont  think its enough to persuade me that the loss 
adjuster gave permission for the clothes  to be disposed of. The loss adjusters words  
need to be considered in the context  of the rest of the email which refers to Agent 1 
failing to provide  updates and proof of asbestos  matters which  are unrelated  to the 
clothing items. So as the loss adjusters comment wasnt  solely  about the dry 
cleaning, Im not persuaded it amounts to consent.
In contrast  to this, Ive seen an email from Ms C to both her loss assessor  and L&Gs 
loss adjuster confirming  shes returned the items to the risk address. This suggests 
L&G knew  the items had been returned.  
Ive also seen emails  between Ms Cs loss assessor  and the contractor he initially  
appointed to dispose of the clothing, along  with other items  beyond economic repair.  
The emails  include a catalogue of the smoke damaged clothes  this was put 
together by Ms C. L&G has said it never  had sight of this and that as the contractor 
was appointed by Ms Cs loss assessor it wasnt aware of it. The initial  contractor 
was unable to complete  the work in the required timeframe and so another  contractor 
was appointed by Ms Cs loss assessor. Ive seen an invoice  in relation to this 
contractor dated  November 2016.  While Im satisfied  this confirms contents were 
disposed of, it doesnt tell me that the clothing  was included in this  or that L&G 
knew it was going  to be disposed of.
Ms Cs loss assessor had previously said L&G included the clothing items in the sum 
insured and that as it had paid for the items, it mustve known the items had been 
disposed of. But Ive also seen an email which contradicts this - in it Ms Cs loss 
assessor tells L&G She [Ms C] is not expecting to be paid for the value of the items 
as the sum insured was already exceeded,  but equally  she feels she should not have 
her limited  sum insured drawn  on by Agent 1 for cleaning  which  was unsuccessful . 
This suggests the items  hadnt been included in the total sum insured  and this 
concurs with L&Gs  position that the items hadnt been included  in the claim. So 
again, I dont think its fair to say L&G gave consent   implied  or not  for the clothes  
to be disposed of. 
I noted that Ms C contacted L&G in December  2016  to say the clothes still smelt of 
smoke, which suggests she had the clothes. But this was after the clothes were 
allegedly disposed of in November 2016. So I question why Ms C would contact L&G 
about the state of her clothes if theyd  already  been  disposed of. 
From what  Ive seen theres  insufficient  evidence enough for me to decide  that the 
clothes were or werent disposed of with L&Gs consent. So I cant say that Ms C did 
or didnt  meet her obligations under the policy not to dispose of items without L&Gs  
consent. So Ill now go on to consider  whether L&G took reasonable action upon 
learning that Ms C was dissatisfied with the restoration of her clothes.
L&G are under the impression Ms C retained  the clothing items following the dry 
cleaning as its agent didnt hear from her again. It has said it first became aware at 
the end of December 2016 that Ms C was unhappy with the restoration work. It said it 
then contacted Ms C and her loss assessor  to arrange for the clothes to be 
reassessed. 
Ref: DRN20136335I can see L&G tried to contact Ms C and her loss assessor in February  and March  
2017 but it didnt hear back.  Ms Cs loss assessor has said that he sent emails  in 
March, May, June and July 2017 to find out what was happening  in relation to the 
matter. But Ive not seen evidence of this
In August  2017  L&G contacted Ms Cs loss assessor and asked if it could  close its 
file on the matter as it hadnt heard from him or Ms C. And I can see L&G tried to 
resolve the matter  again in October 2017.  
So Im satisfied L&G didnt prejudice Ms Cs position as it took reasonable steps to 
try and resolve the matter, and I think it was reasonable for it to assume  the issue  
had been resolved having not heard  from Ms C or her loss assessor for a period of 
several months.
I understand Ms Cs loss assessor thinks L&Gs attempts were redundant, but I 
wouldve expected  him or Ms C to make L&G aware that the clothing  had already  
been disposed  of if that was in fact the case.
obtaining approval before carrying out repair works
Ms Cs other complaint point is that L&G didnt  gain her or her loss assessors  
approval  before going ahead with the dry cleaning,  even  though  itd been specifically 
asked to. L&G has acknowledged that it didnt  do this and said the offer it previously 
made partly reflected this. 
I can appreciate Ms Cs frustration at not being asked for prior approval.  And I agree 
its disappointing customer service  on L&Gs part. But, ultimately, its up to the insurer  
to choose how it moves forwards with a claim in order to resolve matters, and I 
accept L&Gs point  that it had successfully cleaned  clothes in similar  circumstances 
to Ms Cs. So, even if Ms C had initially wanted the dry cleaning costs,  L&G wasnt  
bound to pay her those costs. I accept  it might have been a bit disappointing for Ms C 
not to be told, but Im not satisfied that L&G acted  unfairly by going ahead with the 
dry cleaning  works.
summary
In summary,  Im not persuaded the dry cleaning provided a lasting and effective 
repair. As I said above, ordinarily it would follow that Id ask L&G to pay the costs  it 
incurred for the dry cleaning as it didnt  work.  
But here theres conflicting evidence, and so I dont have enough  information  to 
reach a decision  as to whether the clothes were disposed of with or without L&Gs 
consent. So Ive considered what that means  for the parties  in the context of three  
possible scenarios.  
1.Ms C disposed  of the clothing without L&Gs consent. If this is the case, there 
would be no obligation on L&G to omit the costs it incurred for the dry 
cleaning from the total sum insured as Ms C hadnt  met her obligations under 
the policy, and had consequently prejudiced  L&Gs  position.
Ref: DRN201363362.Ms C disposed  of the clothes with L&Gs consent. This would  mean L&G 
were aware the dry cleaning hadnt  provided a lasting and effective repair,  
and so it ought to remove  the cost of the dry cleaning from the total sum 
insured. The difference would then be paid to Ms C up until the sum insured 
limit.
3.Ms C disposed  of the clothes but its unclear whether this was with L&Gs 
consent. Here, I cant say that Ms C hasnt met her obligations under the 
policy. But as I am satisfied the dry cleaning didnt  provide a lasting and 
effective repair, and that L&G took reasonable steps to try and resolve the 
matter, I think  its fair to ask L&G to pay Ms C half the costs  it incurred  in 
having the clothes dry cleaned. 
Because theres inconclusive  evidence as to whether the clothes  were  disposed of 
with or without L&Gs consent,  Im minded to say the third scenario applies in Ms Cs 
situation. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint 
and will be asking Legal and General  Insurance Limited  to: 
pay Ms C half the total dry cleaning costs it incurred, and
add 8% simple interest  to this payment. Interest must be calculated from the 
date the final settlement  was paid, to the date this payment is made. 
It can then deduct  £1,400  as this is the outstanding amount owed to it 
following Ms Cs retention of the alternative  accommodation deposit.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. L&G didnt agree  that 8% interest  should  
be added  when calculating the settlement figure. And it thought it ought to be able to charge  
interest on the £1,400 alternative accommodation  deposit Ms C had retained.  
Having considered this, I thought a fairer  way of calculating the redress would be to deduct  
£1,400 from half the dry cleaning costs and then add 8% interest to the remaining amount. 
This reflects that as Ms C had the benefit  of £1,400, it would be fair to ask L&G to pay 
interest on the full amount. Both parties were  made  aware of this and were given additional 
time to consider  it and respond.
Ms Cs loss assessor responded and said:
he believes theres sufficient evidence to show the clothing was disposed of with the 
consent of the insurer.
the provisional decision refers to an email  from the loss adjuster where they approve 
the disposal of contents, and there is an earlier email to the same  loss adjuster 
where Ms Cs loss assessor  confirms the items  have been returned to the risk 
address.
Ms C had no choice but to return the items to the risk address as they were too 
smelly and were  creating  an odour in her rental  property.
Ref: DRN20136337he repeatedly chased  L&Gs loss adjuster  to  try and resolve the dry cleaning issue.
Along with his response to the provisional  decision,  Ms Cs loss assessor provided a number 
of documents  which he feels  support Ms Cs position  that the clothes were disposed  of with 
L&Gs consent. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Ive not seen enough  evidence  to persuade me that the clothes were  
disposed of with L&Gs consent, and so, I wont be asking L&G to pay the full costs of the 
dry cleaning.  And Ill explain  why.
Ms Cs loss assessor has provided  emails which he says show he repeatedly contacted L&G 
in order to resolve Ms Cs concerns about the dry cleaning. I agree  the emails  show he was 
in contact with L&G about the dry cleaning. But, I dont think  they show  that he was 
repeatedly in touch  between  March  and September 2017  the period in which  L&G said it 
didnt hear from him or Ms C. 
I say this because,  of the emails that are dated, the majority either pre-date March 2017,  or 
are from September  2017 onwards. There is one email from Ms Cs loss assessor to L&G 
which seems likely to be from June 2017 - in which  he refers  to the resolution of the dry 
cleaning. But this email doesnt show that he or Ms C had provided  L&G with the 
information it had asked for earlier  in the year  namely, the extent of the unsuccessful dry 
cleaning, so it could  agree a way forward. And in any event,  it remains  unclear as to why if 
the clothing had been disposed of with L&Gs consent, Ms C or her loss assessor didnt  
bring this to L&Gs attention. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I thought  the dry cleaning hadnt provided  an 
effective and lasting  repair. So I dont doubt that the items were causing an unpleasant smell 
in Ms Cs accommodation. But this in itself doesnt prove that the clothes were disposed  of 
with L&Gs  consent.
Having considered this, along with the other information provided, its still unclear  as to 
whether the clothing items were  disposed of with or without L&Gs  consent.  As such, I wont  
be asking L&G to pay the full cost of the dry cleaning. Instead, as set out in my provisional 
decision, I think a fairer way to resolve this is for L&G to pay half the dry cleaning  costs.
As explained above, after receiving L&Gs response  to my provisional decision, I changed 
how I thought  the redress  should  be calculated and told both parties this. Where a customer 
has been deprived of money theyre entitled to, our position is to tell businesses to pay an 
additional 8% simple interest. But here,  it wouldnt be fair to ask L&G to pay interest on the 
full amount (i.e. half the dry cleaning costs) as Ms C hadnt been deprived  of the entire  
amount - as she retained the alternative accommodation deposit. 
I know Ms C will be disappointed that I havent asked L&G to pay the full cost of the dry 
cleaning but I hope she understands why Ive not been able to ask it to do that. 
Ref: DRN20136338my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, Legal & General Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms C half the total dry cleaning costs minus  £1,400 (as this amount is still owed 
to Legal & General Insurance Limited by Ms C). 8% simple interest  should  then be 
added to the remaining amount. Interest must be calculated  from the date the final 
settlement was paid,  to the date this payment  is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2013633