K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Marks and Spencer  Financial  Services Plc will not refund  some 
disputed transactions.
background
Between June  and July 2017, a large number of transactions were made using Mrs Ds 
credit card.  Some were  online and some were point  of sale i.e purchases  made  in store.
Mrs D says she never made nor authorised  these  transactions.  She says someone close to 
her has been able to obtain her details, order a new card and PIN to a different address  and 
then use her account.  She says she has given the police  this persons name.
When Mrs D complained  to M&S,  it rejected her complaint.  It said the address on the 
account had been changed  it said by Mrs D.  A new card and PIN were sent to this 
address and there was no reason to query the change as the person who M&S spoke to was 
able to answer security  questions every time they spoke to a representative.
So, Mrs D came to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs D had not authorised the transactions and asked that M&S 
refund the same.  Mrs D agreed but M&S did not and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I intend to 
uphold this complaint for very much the same  reasons as the adjudicator.  In fact, there is 
very little that I think I can helpfully  add.
Generally speaking, M&S is required to refund funds from an unauthorised transaction.   
There is no dispute here that the transactions were  properly authenticated   but the relevant 
rules say that authentication alone is not enough for M&S to hold Mrs D liable. It also has to 
show that Mrs D consented to the transactions.  So, the adjudicator properly focussed her 
mind on the issue of consent   and I propose to do the same.
From what  I have  seen, I dont think its reasonable for M&S to hold Mrs D liable for the 
following reasons:
-I am not satisfied that Mrs D consented to anyone else taking possession  of her card;
-included in M&Ss own file is an admission that Mrs D may have been taken 
advantage of by a third party;
-during M&Ss investigation into some of the disputed transactions, the retailers  did 
not confirm that the purchases had been made in Mrs Ds name;
-during these investigations with the retailers, phone numbers which  do not appear  
linked to Mrs D were  provided as being linked to the transactions
-evidence that a card and PIN had been sent to an address held on file is not 
evidence that it had been received  by the genuine  customer;
-I agree  with the adjudicator that the person  talking to M&S during some of the calls 
did not sound like Mrs D;
Ref: DRN22195602-the nature of the questions during the call on 23rd June 2017 seemed  to suggest that 
the person on the phone was someone unfamiliar with the account
So, in the circumstances, I am not persuaded that Mrs D consented to these transactions   
which means she cannot be held liable for them.
Mrs D also requests that M&S makes a contribution towards her legal costs.   As the 
adjudicator has already  explained  this is not something which  our service, generally 
speaking, would normally do.  We offer a free service and so, if a consumer chooses to 
instruct a lawyer, it is reasonable for them to bear the cost of doing  so themselves.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Marks and Spencer  Financial Services Plc should:
-refund  all the disputed transactions in full
-if the account terms and conditions allow for it, to explain to Mrs D that she is to be 
held liable  for a small amount (usually the first £50)
-restructure the account  and place it back in the position it would have been in had 
these transactions  not been  made
-remove any adverse credit markers  in relation to this debt (if placed)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2219560