K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store  card payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France  IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore  just be referring to AXA in this decision.
background
Mrs C took out the policy over the phone in 1990.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and AXA no longer 
has any of the sales  documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising. 
So Ive based  my decision on the evidence  that we do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. 
AXA has provided evidence that Mrs C opened her store card account in 1982. She didnt 
take out the PPI until 1990,  when  she was sold it over the phone.  As Mrs C had already had 
the card for some time, she cant have  thought  that the PPI was a condition of having the 
credit. Based  on the available  evidence,  I consider  that Mrs C would have known that she 
had a choice about taking  out the PPI. It seems to me that she decided  to buy it, knowing  
that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know if AXA advised Mrs C to buy the policy or not, but that makes  no difference to 
the outcome of my decision.  If it did advise her to buy it, AXA would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Mrs Cs needs.  And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Mrs C says her employer  would have given her at least three months full pay if she was off 
work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer  
than she would have  received full pay for. And Mrs C hasnt told us about  any other means, 
such as savings, that she could fall back on. So I consider she had a need for the policy and 
could have benefited from it at what would have  been a difficult  time.
I consider that Mrs C would have  known something  about the policy  that it would cover her 
card repayments if she was unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment   
because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about 
it. Its possible that AXA didnt provide  as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mrs C wasnt affected by any of 
Ref: DRN23678212those things. As I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  
that more information would have  caused  her to change  her mind. So she isnt any worse off 
as a result  of anything  AXA may have done  wrong,  so theres  nothing  that AXA needs to do 
to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2367821