K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Harvey and Thompson  Limited  (H&T) lent irresponsibly to him. 
background
On 25 July 2017, Mr J borrowed £500  from H&T. Before it agreed  to lend that amount,  H&T 
asked Mr J to provide information about  his income  and expenditure. It also undertook a 
credit check.  
Mr J declared  that he lived with his parents and that his monthly outgoings were £50 per 
month. Those costs  were attributed to travel.  The credit check showed that he had 14 active  
credit accounts  11 of those accounts had been opened in the preceding six months.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She thought that H&T should  have 
undertaken more  checks when  Mr J made his application. 
H&T disagreed with that view. It said that based  upon Mr Js outgoings, the loan appeared 
affordable. It also said that affordability  information wasnt available  to it at the relevant time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  Having 
said that, Id also expect H&T to take full account  of the information it obtained as part of the 
application process. 
I think that it is important for me to make  clear that H&T was required to establish whether 
Mr J could sustainably repay the loan  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. Having done  so, I agree with our 
adjudicator and I think the complaint  should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN20746392As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, it is generally  acceptable  for a lender to 
undertake fewer checks. But that lender must also take full account of the information it 
obtains about a customer before it agrees to a loan.  
In this case, H&T enquired as to Mr Js income and expenditure. He declared  his monthly 
outgoings to be £50 per month in respect  of travel only. In my view, that figure was unlikely 
to be accurate and should have given H&T cause to ask further questions. For example, it is 
very unlikely  that even  someone living with their parents would not have some bills, such as 
a mobile phone or some housekeeping  expenses.  
In addition to that, the credit check showed  that Mr J had taken out 11 new credit accounts in 
the six months before he applied to H&T. No account had been  taken  of any repayments  
towards that lending when  H&T made  enquiries  about Mr Js income  and expenditure. And I 
think the number  of new accounts  within that time frame should have probably indicated  to 
H&T that Mr J was having problems managing his finances. 
The number of credit  accounts Mr J had opened  in the preceding  six months was 
inconsistent with his stated expenditure of £50 per month. And so I think H&T should have 
undertaken more  checks. Given the inconsistency,  a proportionate check  at that stage 
should have included a full review  of Mr Js financial circumstances. 
Had those checks been undertaken, I think H&T would  have  seen that in the month before 
he applied  for this loan, he had taken  out around  £2,000 of borrowing with other short-term 
lenders. He had also spent  over £1,000 making  credit repayments in the earlier month.  To 
put that in context, his income at that time was just over £1,200. I can also see that Mr J had 
spent considerable sums using online gambling sites.  
In summary,  if H&T had undertaken a proportionate check and questioned the apparent 
contradiction in the information it had, it would have  been abundantly clear that Mr J could 
not sustainably  repay  this loan. So, H&T will need  to take action to put things right.  
putting things right  what Harvey &Thompson needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on this loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Js credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr J to take off tax from this interest.  H&T must  give Mr 
J a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN20746393my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.  Harvey  & Thompson Limited 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2074639