K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds declined  a claim  under his marine  insurance policy.
Background
Mr W had an insurance policy with Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds)  which covered damage to his 
boat.
In 2018, Mr W decided  to trade in his vessel in part exchange. The survey carried  out in 
advance of that exchange found  extensive damage to Mr Ws boat. Estimates  for the repairs  
came to more than £20,000.
Mr W hadnt noticed any damage previously. He assumed the boat had recently  been  hit by 
another craft whilst moored where  its kept when he isnt using it. He was aware  dredging 
had been carried  out there recently and thought  one of the dredgers  may have accidentally 
impacted his boat.
Mr W made a claim to Lloyds for the cost of the repairs.  They appointed an expert  to assess  
the damage to the boat. They then told Mr W they were declining  his claim because the 
damage appeared to pre-date Mr Ws ownership  of the boat and repairs had previously  been  
attempted but had now failed.
When Mr W challenged this, they appointed a second expert.  The repairs  were  already 
almost complete by this time, which made a full inspection of the damage impossible. But 
after considering the photographs  taken at the first inspection, the second expert confirmed 
that there  appeared to be evidence of previous attempted  repairs.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and complained  to Lloyds.  They  referred him to the section of 
his policy  which states that they will not cover the cost of making good defects arising from 
any previous repairs.  And they said the expert opinions suggested that there were ultimately 
unsuccessful attempts  to repair  damage  which had occurred before Mr W took out his policy  
with them.
Mr W then brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into and didnt think Lloyds 
had acted fairly in declining the claim. She thought there was no evidence of damage  which  
pre-existed Mr Ws ownership of the boat and his policy with Lloyds. She said Lloyds should 
re-consider the claim in line with the remaining terms  of the policy.
Lloyds disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision before 
making my final decision in this case.  This allowed both Mr W and Lloyds a chance to offer 
further information and evidence and/or to comment  on my thinking before I make my final 
decision, which is this services last word  on the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29048772I dont think theres any dispute in this case that if Mr Ws boat had suffered damage 
in the same area previously and repairs had been  attempted  prior to the inception 
of his policy with Lloyds  they would be entitled  to decline the current  claim. The 
policy terms are quite  clear about  that.
Mr W says hes never  had such repairs  carried out. Hes also provided a statement 
from the previous  owner which says the boat hadnt  suffered  any damage  or had 
repairs carried out  during his ownership. I believe he was the only previous owner 
of the boat after it was commissioned.
Mr W has also provided reports of two surveys carried  out in 2016 before he bought  
the boat. The initial survey in June 2016  and a re-inspection in October  2016  were 
carried out by a company of surveyors Ill call H. I believe H may have also carried 
out an earlier survey a few years  before  that.
None of those  survey reports found any damage to the boat which  could in any way 
explain the damage found when  it was surveyed again  by H  prior to the exchange 
in 2018. Mr W also tells us that he regularly had the boats hull cleaned  and de-
fouled. Again, the companies  that carried out that work didnt mention any apparent  
damage to the boat.
In summary,  Mr W points  to a very simple explanation of the current damage. He 
says there  was no damage  and no attempted repair - before 2018. And so the only 
possible explanation  of the current damage is that the boat was impacted  very 
likely by another vessel, possibly a dredger  after his last use of the boat and before 
it was lifted for survey prior to the proposed exchange.
If that were true, then Lloyds would not be entitled to decline the claim on the basis  
that previous repairs had been attempted and ultimately failed.  And we would require 
them to reconsider the claim.
After they received the claim, Lloyds appointed a surveyor, which Ill call S, to 
inspect the damage. They  carried out a preliminary inspection in October  2018  and a 
further inspection  in November 2018  whilst  the repairs were underway.
S reported that there  was evidence of a previous repair in the same area of the 
vessel  the port-side hull. And they concluded  that the current  damage was due to 
the failure of that repair, which may have  been caused by the boat being lifted  for 
inspection.
S identified  several  reasons for believing there had been historic repairs.
They said the current rubbing strake (the part of the hull which  should  take any 
impact from another  vessel) was undamaged  which suggested there hadnt been  a 
recent impact. And it appeared to be badly  fitted   with an irregular  gap. In their view, 
this indicated a poorly  carried  out previous repair.
S said that in the area of the main  damage  the port-side mid-ships   there was a 
visible edge to a gelcoat repair.  A similar edge  could be seen in the galley liner 
moulding. And the gelcoat above the galley window also indicated  a previous repair.
Ref: DRN29048773S also noted that the caulking beneath the port-side cockpit  window was missing, 
whilst the rest of the caulking on the boat was in good shape.  This also indicated  a 
poor previous repair in that area.
When Ss view was challenged, Lloyds appointed another surveyor,  which Ill call E. 
When they attended to inspect the boat in December 2018, the repairs  were almost 
complete. This made it difficult for E to come to any firm conclusion after their 
inspection.
Lloyds were surprised  to find the repairs had gone  ahead at that stage, before their 
decision on the claim. Mr W says he simply wanted the exchange  completed  and 
wasnt prepared to wait indefinitely for Lloyds  to appoint a further surveyor. 
Whilst I can understand that, I certainly cant blame Lloyds for the fact that E didnt 
have the chance to inspect the damage before it was repaired. And I note that E 
attended to inspect the boat only in the month after S had carried  out their second 
visit.
Es initial conclusion  was that they couldnt  determine when  the damage had 
originally occurred. And they couldnt  find any evidence which  would definitely  show 
that it happened - and was repaired  before Mr Ws ownership.
However, when E were  asked to review  the matter having been given access to the 
photographs taken  by S before the repairs were carried out in late 2018, E concluded 
that those photographs, appear to show repairs and cracking which is not recent.
So, at this point,  we have one expert  H  saying there was no apparent damage to 
the boat prior to Mr Ws ownership,  having surveyed the boat (twice) in 2016.
We have another  expert  S  who inspected the boat before  the recent repairs were 
carried out and concluded that there  was historic damage and there were previous 
attempted repairs.
That opinion is backed up by a further expert   E - albeit their view is based primarily 
on photographs  taken  by S before the recent  repairs were  undertaken. And not on 
their own first-hand inspection, which took place only after the current  repairs  were 
very much underway.
The other expert source of information  and evidence about the state  of the boat in 
late 2018 is the company that actually  carried  out the repairs   which Ill call D.
Mr W points to an email  from D which he believes confirms his view that there was 
no pre-existing damage  and no previous attempted repair. I think its worth quoting  
Ds email in full because it is important. D said:
I can confirm that once  the galley was removed  and the side was inspected
thoroughly there was no evidence of previous repairs internally
I can see why Mr W thinks this is a key piece of evidence, but I dont agree that it 
supports his argument that there were no previous repairs. The key word for me is 
internally. Ds view  as expressed above  isnt conclusive for either side of this 
argument.
Ref: DRN29048774That there were no previous repairs internally certainly doesnt  contradict Mr W's 
view that there were no repairs at all. But nor does it contradict  Lloyds  view.  They  
believe the boat suffered  some damage  historically. And rather  than repair it properly, 
which would have included  internal  repairs, whoever carried  out the work  covered up 
the cosmetic damage but didnt address the fundamental issues. Hence the damage 
revealing itself again  in 2018 when the boat was lifted for survey.
Fortunately, this wasnt  Ds only input. And I think their further evidence is crucial  to 
understanding whats likely to have happened  in this case.
Lloyds claims handler contacted D by phone after their experts reports had been  
contested by Mr W. D clearly stated that the boat had previous damage which 
someone had attempted to repair.
When asked whether this was an old repair, D said:
its had some obvious damage and theyve repaired  the very minor 
obvious damage but missed the big structural damage that happened.
When asked again how old the damage  was likely to be, D said it would be difficult  to
pinpoint it.
We approached D later to be sure we were absolutely clear about their view. They 
confirmed the previous  attempted repairs were to minor chips  and scratching on the 
deck and deck edge above the area on the port-side hull which  had later required the 
extensive repairs (at a cost of over £20,000). They said no attempt  had been  made  to 
repair any damage to the hull itself where the stress  crack had later appeared.
When taken all together  and bearing  in mind  the later clarification of what  D had 
earlier said to Lloyds   Ds evidence tells us two things.
One, there  was previous damage to the boat and there were previous attempted 
repairs.
Two, according to D, the previous repairs were to an area above the site of the major  
damage. But D couldnt be sure whether the two areas of damage  were caused by a 
single incident  or by two separate incidents.
Again, its worth quoting  D in full on this issue, so that theres no danger of 
misinterpretation. When D mentions the incident  below, theyre  clearly  referring  to 
the event that caused the major damage  to the hull.
I am only speculating that the damage was caused  by crushing. It may 
(have) happened and the owner didnt notice any damage and the repairs to 
the chips predated  the incident or the chips were  repaired  as a result  of the 
incident and the repairer  did not realise  the extent  of the damage.  It is 
impossible to confirm either  way.
Ref: DRN29048775We now have three  experts  S, E and D  saying  that repairs to the boat had been 
carried out previously  (before D repaired the major damage). Two of them   S and E 
 are willing to say those  repairs  were  likely  a failed attempt to address  major  
damage which later revealed  itself.
One  D  says there are two possible  explanations.  Either  a single incident  caused  
all of the damage or there  were  two separate incidents  one causing damage  to the 
deck and deck edge (which was only cosmetically repaired) and a later one which 
caused the major damage to the hull.
The other expert  H  says there  was no apparent damage on survey in 2016. Two 
years before the boat was lifted in 2018.
Mr W tells us he didnt have any such repairs carried out on the boat whilst he owned 
it.
Its very important to stress at this point  that its not for me to determine  definitively 
whether the boat had been involved in a previous incident that caused the major 
damage which manifested itself in 2018.
I dont believe its possible to do that in any case, but my role is to decide  whether 
Lloyds have acted  fairly  and reasonably in declining the claim.
When I look at all the evidence Lloyds had when they made their decision, its 
impossible for me to conclude theyve acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining the 
claim.
They had two independent expert reports which concluded there was previous 
damage and attempted repairs to the boat. But when that was challenged, they 
sought further evidence by talking  to D, whod carried out the later repairs in 2018.
Nothing D said at that point  or since then,  when we contacted them   contradicts 
the opinion of the two independent  experts, S and E. All of the evidence from S, E 
and D suggests  someone had attempted  repairs to the boat previously.
Mr Ws explanation of events relies on the assumption that there had been no 
previous repairs  during the time he owned the boat or before. Whilst Im sure Mr W 
genuinely believes that, Im satisfied on balance  that isnt the case.
I think that alone is enough  to justify Lloyds declining the claim. Mr W cant point to 
an insured event having occurred. His claim rests  on the notion that in the absence  of 
any other possible explanation, the damage  must have been  caused by some  impact 
or crushing incident which he didnt witness and which  occurred a short  time before 
the boat was lifted for survey in 2018.
That assumption has to be called into question in light of the evidence about  previous 
repairs. In short, there is a plausible alternative explanation as to how the boat was 
damaged.
But even if that werent  enough on its own to justify Lloyds declining the claim,  Im 
also satisfied on balance  that its not unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that the 
most likely explanation is that there  was a single event which caused all of the 
Ref: DRN29048776damage. The two areas of damage  are located  in close proximity.  They  are both 
compatible with a crushing event. And both independent experts instructed by Lloyds 
came to that view.
If there was a single  event   which I think is more likely than not  then clearly 
someone had attempted to repair the boat after that event. And given that Mr W says 
he hasnt had any such repairs carried out, its not unreasonable  for Lloyds  to 
conclude that there  was damage  and attempted repairs - to the boat before  Mr Ws 
ownership. And thats the basis on which theyve declined the claim  as they are 
entitled to do according to the terms of the policy.
If theres any further relevant information  or evidence available to Mr W  or indeed  
to Lloyds  which I have not yet seen, then they should provide that in response to 
this provisional decision.  This is also their opportunity to point out any potential flaws  
in my logic or reasoning.
And on that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
The responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but have offered no further comment  or 
information. I assume they agree  with the reasoning set out in my provisional decision.
Mr W has provided further comment.  Ill try to summarise this.
Mr W says he and his family have enjoyed using the boat for a number of years, without any 
sign of previous damage or repair manifesting itself. Hes also sent a number of photographs 
of the boat during the time he owned it, which show that he did use it extensively - and 
again, noticed no signs of previous damage or any problem with the boat. 
He thinks the report  provided by H  of the survey carried out when he bought the boat  
should be persuasive. And he says all three  other experts  S, E and D  are doing no more 
that speculating as to when the damage to the boat occurred.
Mr W points to evidence that the rails on his boat were scuffed and damaged before lifting  
which he believes indicates  there was an impact incident reasonably  recently before the boat 
was lifted.
He says he hasnt  seen the report and photographs provided by S. And hes unsure  how he 
can protect himself from a similar  loss in future if, as he puts it, insurers  dont settle claims in 
line with their contractual obligations.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the further information and 
comment provided by Mr W.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, but I havent changed my mind.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN29048777I can see that Mr W and his family  enjoyed the boat for a number of years   without noticing 
any problem  until it was lifted for inspection prior to sale. The photographs  Mr W sent in 
response to my provisional  decision confirm that.
However, as most of the experts agree, boats can carry damage for a length  of time before it 
becomes apparent. Three experts who saw the boat after it was lifted  say there was 
previous damage   and previous attempted repairs. 
Im afraid in that context, I cant agree that the evidence from H is more persuasive  than the 
evidence from three  other experts.  All of whom agree  that there was previous damage.  
Mr W may be right to say they all speculate about  when that damage occurred. But they all 
agree there was previous  damage  and that someone attempted to repair it. Mr W says that 
wasnt him. If so, the damage must date from before his ownership  of the boat.
The rail damage in the photographs Mr W sent of the boat before it was lifted might have 
been caused at any time previously. And that damage may or may be not be associated with 
whatever incident(s) caused  the boat to be damaged. 
However, again, the three experts all say there  were  attempted repairs  to the boat. Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that theyre  right. 
And if they are, then Mr Ws preferred explanation  of the major  damage  that it was caused  
recently before the boat was lifted by impact from another  vessel  and that no repairs were 
attempted  cannot be correct.
I have absolutely no reason to doubt  Mr Ws sincerity and honesty in pursuing his claim and 
this complaint. Im very sorry that hes experienced this issue and I can understand his 
frustration. But the fairly  overwhelming evidence  is that the boat was damaged  and repairs  
attempted  before  it was lifted for survey in 2018.
I cant find that Lloyds  acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining  Mr Ws claim when  that 
was the evidence they had at the time and given  that Mr W maintains hes had no such 
repairs carried out during the time he owned  the boat.
Mr W says he hasnt seen the report and photographs from S. I would  expect that Lloyds 
would provide him with a copy on request.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2904877