K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt treat her fairly when she fell victim to a 
scam. Ms H has had the support and assistance  of a representative in bringing this 
complaint.
background
Ms H holds a current account with Barclays. Unfortunately, in August 2018, she fell victim to 
a scam. At the time, Ms H was in her late 80s and suffering from a serious health condition. 
Ms Hs GP describes her as vulnerable. She was approached by rogue traders who 
demanded money, despite not carrying out any work. Both sides  now accept that this was a 
scam designed to steal Ms Hs money.  So I will refer throughout to the perpetrators as 
scammers.
The scammers initially drove Ms H to an ATM. She was persuaded to withdraw £300 in cash  
and give this to them. Ms H was then driven  to a Barclays  branch to withdraw a further 
£7,000 in cash. It appears the staff member was sufficiently  concerned  to alert a senior 
member of staff. The branch staff also recorded details of the scammers vehicle. However,  
the withdrawal was permitted, and in turn Ms H gave this money  to the scammers. 
The scam subsequently came  to light and Barclays refunded the £300 ATM withdrawal. But 
it didnt accept it was liable for the larger withdrawal made in branch.  Ms Hs representative 
raised a complaint about this. After  reviewing the matter, Barclays  ultimately  agreed  to also 
refund the £7,000 withdrawal.
This meant Ms H had been fully reimbursed for the direct financial losses  she suffered from 
the scam.  However,  Ms Hs representative wasnt  satisfied  this offer was a fair settlement.  
She didnt  think it recognised the trouble and upset that they had both been through.  
Ms Hs representative thought that had Barclays stopped the transactions  at the outset, the 
trouble and upset  shed  suffered would  have been substantially reduced.  She argued  that, 
as she held power of attorney for Ms H, Barclays ought to have contacted her before 
allowing Ms H to transact.  So Ms Hs representative  asked our service to independently 
review the complaint.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He explained that our service  only has the 
power to make an award in respect  of distress and inconvenience when  this is suffered by 
the consumer.  He recognised the considerable distress and upset  experienced by Ms Hs 
representative. However, he explained we could not make any award  in respect  of this, only 
for the extent of the distress  and inconvenience  suffered  by Ms H herself.
But based  on what had happened,  the investigator recommended Barclays  should  pay Ms H 
£300 in respect  of the distress shed  suffered. He also recommended Barclays should pay 
Ms H interest on the sum shed withdrawn  at the rate of 8% simple from the date of the 
withdrawal until the date it had been refunded. 
Barclays responded, saying it accepted the investigators recommendations. Ms Hs 
representative said she understood her own distress and inconvenience couldnt be 
compensated through this complaint. But she didnt think the amount awarded by the 
investigator was sufficient. She provided  further details about the concern this episode  has 
caused her, together  with ongoing targeting of Ms H by the scammers. However, the 
Ref: DRN20396022investigator said he didnt  think  he could fairly  hold Barclays  responsible  for these further 
points.
Ms Hs representative has asked for everything  to be looked  at again independently by an 
ombudsman. So, I have  been asked to make  a final decision  on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At the outset, I want to clearly acknowledge that Ms H has been the victim of a cruel and 
targeted scam.  The principal cause of all that happened has been the actions of the 
scammers involved. Ms Hs representative has thoroughly detailed  the extent of the impact  
this had on them both.  The initial  financial losses may now have  been  redressed by 
Barclays, but the wider  impact is less easily repaired. 
I know from what Ms Hs representative has said that she personally put a considerable 
amount of time and effort into trying to achieve  a fair outcome for Ms H. The efforts  she 
details are commendable. Shes explained  though that these took a significant toll on her, 
affecting her health  to the point she required specialist medical referral. I understand that 
she been through an extremely  frustrating  and challenging experience, and I have 
considerable sympathy for her.
The investigator is right in saying that any award  I can make for distress  or inconvenience is 
limited to the extent  of the impact  suffered  by the customer. I simply dont  have the power to 
make any award against a financial business  for distress or inconvenience  suffered by 
another party, such as the customers representative.
Whats more, any award I make can only reflect the impact that resulted from what the 
financial business did or didnt do. I cannot make  any award  to recognise the impact of 
criminal actions taken by another party, such as the scammer.
These considerations mean I am considerably restricted  in the scope of what  I can do in a 
situation like this. I have  thought carefully about what happened and everything that Ms Hs 
representative has detailed. 
While I understand the scammers have continued  to harass Ms H, she had been targeted by 
those individuals  before  Barclays had any involvement in the matter, and has continued to 
be targeted by them  even  after the Police had been informed. Given  this, even if Barclays  
had informed the Police at the earliest possible stage, I unfortunately dont think  this would 
have stopped the scammers actions.
Having given the matter careful  consideration, I find the award the investigator 
recommended fair and reasonable  in all of the circumstances.  Barclays  says it accepts the 
investigators findings and so has offered to pay Ms H £300 compensation, plus interest  on 
the sum Ms H withdrew for the time she was without it. 
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable of me to require Barclays to do more  here,  
because in doing so I would be in danger  of allowing for the distress and the inconvenience 
suffered by the representative more so than by Ms H herself,  and as Ive said,  I am not 
Ref: DRN20396023permitted to do that. Nevertheless,  in saying this, I would reiterate the sympathy I feel for 
what the representative has been through and I am sorry that I have to disappoint her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should:
Pay Ms H a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience  shes been caused.   
Pay Ms H interest at the rate of 8% simple  on the £7,000 she withdrew as part of the 
scam, from the date this sum was withdrawn until the date it was refunded. 
If Barclays deducts tax from the interest  element of this award, it should provide Ms H with 
the appropriate tax deduction  certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2039602