K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms B says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2004.
The policy cost was £1.50 per £100  Ms B owed on her store card.  The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Ms B couldnt work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms B that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ms B says the PPI was just added  to her account.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. 
Ms B has signed  to confirm she wanted the cover. If Ms B didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have left this section blank. And Ms B has signed the overall document which 
suggests it reflected  what she wanted.  
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Ms B 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to
Ms B. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need to make 
sure it gave Ms B clear enough  information about the policy to enable her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Ms B 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions to the cover  so it would have been  useful for her if something went wrong. It 
Ref: DRN29689882also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said, including what she has said about not being 
able to claim as she had been  in her job role for less than 12 months  at the time of the sale. 
Having checked  the policy terms and conditions,  I can see that cover  was provided for 
unemployment claims following continuous  employment for at least  six months at the time of 
the claim.  As Ms B had already been  employed  for 10 months at the time of taking  out the 
policy, she wouldnt have been prevented  from claiming. So this doesnt  change my decision.
So when taking  everything into consideration I dont think Ms B has lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2968988