K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Fairway Financial Consultancy wrongly advised him to transfer his 
personal pension  into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP),  to invest  in a Harlequin 
overseas property development.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 February  2020,  in which  I set out the background to this 
complaint and my provisional findings.  A copy of that decision is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.
In summary  I concluded that rather than caveating its advice, Fairway should have been 
clear and unequivocal that Mr H should not transfer  his pension. But I thought  that even if 
Fairway had been this clear Mr H would still have wanted to transfer, because of the 
involvement of an unregulated agent  (Mr N) and the draw of financial incentives which 
Fairway didnt know about at the time. And I was satisfied that Fairway wouldnt, on a fair 
and reasonable basis,  have been  prevented from transacting  this business for Mr H as an 
insistent client if it chose  to do so. Even if it chose not to do so, I was satisfied that Mr H 
could have acted  as an insistent client through another firm or by opening a SIPP with a 
number of providers  as an execution-only client.
Fairway said it agreed with my provisional  decision and had no further  comments  to make. 
Mr Hs representative responded on 3 March  2020 making the following points:
-It reiterated that the qualified advice Fairway gave to Mr H to transfer to the SIPP 
was unsuitable,  because Harlequin was an unsuitable  investment.  
-Fairway didnt follow an insistent client process as it hadnt unequivocally advised 
Mr H not to make the investment first. As it wasnt willing to act for another client on 
an insistent basis, this proved  that presuming Mr Hs insistence wasnt sufficient.
-The representative didnt agree  Mr Hs main objective  (under COBS  9.2.2)  was to 
invest in Harlequin   it was to pursue  an alternative pension investment  strategy.  
Suitable alternatives should  have been considered in detail with clear advice.
-Fairway should have  notified Mr H that advice should only be taken from a regulated 
adviser, such as themselves, and that Mr N wasnt qualified  to provide that advice. 
Mr H would then have  placed  what Fairway said above Mr N, and not transferred.
-Between 22 August and 26 September 2011 some of the answers  in the risk 
questionnaire Mr H completed with Mr N had been deselected (it assumes,  by 
Fairway). These were:
oI am prepared to invest for the medium term.
oRepayment of debt is not a priority to me.
oI havent invested in the past and dont  have significant experience or 
understanding of investment markets.
-COBS 9.2.6 says that Fairway should not have made a recommendation or provide 
its services on the basis of insufficient  information, however it chose to do both.
-There should not be any regard for COBS 10 because as I noted,  it refers  to non-
advised sales. This was an advised sale.
-Fairway hasnt kept a copy  of the suitability  letter signed by Mr H to acknowledge 
receipt, despite it regarding this as an important document.
-Fairways  fee per transfer of £1,000 per client would have been sufficient for it to be 
content for the transaction  to go ahead. It was also reasonable to see from any lay 
investors view, that Mr N, through a colleague in his business, was in some way 
affiliated with Fairway.
Ref: DRN22836722-Mr H had only originally been referred to Mr N for advice on the performance of his 
pension shortly before the events subject to this complaint. That advice resulted in a 
failed attempt to transfer the pension  this wasnt a significant prior relationship.
-The LLP was never set up to receive  commission from this or other sales   it was to 
protect Mr H in the event  that the investment failed.
-Neither the loan Mr H received of £5,000 nor the potential  loss of a £1,000  
reservation fee can be considered as significant  when compared to his entire pension 
pot of £74,000,  or the alternatives available of borrowing from family at nil interest.  
-It was only on the insistence of Mr N that it [the loan] was accepted for the purposes 
of covering the monies required for the transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive considered everything 
Mr Hs representative has said in response to my provisional decision.
I dont underestimate  the strength of feeling the representative has that this complaint should  
be upheld. But I havent found sufficient grounds in anything that its said to revise  my 
opinion that Fairway isnt responsible for the losses Mr H has suffered. Let me explain why.
Im in agreement with Mr Hs representative  that Fairway didnt provide suitable  advice.  To 
the extent that it thinks Fairway didnt gather sufficient information, I think  the issue  is more 
about the veracity  of the information  gathered  because it came via Mr N. To answer another  
of its points, Im aware that the adviser in this case was an acquaintance of Mr Ns business  
partner. I dont know if that affected Fairways  inclination to question  the evidence  gathered  
but, whatever  the position, I agree it should have conducted its own fact find exercise with 
Mr H  as any regulated adviser should  have done.
But this alone  isnt enough  for me to uphold the complaint. I have to consider causation  in 
other words, if Mr H would  likely have acted differently if this, and other  steps in the process, 
been followed differently by Fairway.  
I note the representatives observations about  some answers to the risk questionnaire 
changing. A copy of the answers  it says were recorded on 22 August wasnt  submitted to 
this service previously or in the business file Fairway provided. Both Fairways suitability 
letter and final response letter  referred  to the answers which we have on file and I 
summarised in my provisional decision,  and suggest  a higher risk appetite  than the 
representative is now suggesting was the case. 
Nevertheless it should be noted  that Ive already concluded that the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable in spite of this higher risk appetite. Noting Mr Hs point that Fairway gathered 
insufficient information, I still think the transfer  would have been  unsuitable  whatever further 
information Fairway could  have  gathered.  The issue in this case is not the advice  Fairway  
gave but the advice it should have given  and how Mr H would likely have reacted to that 
advice.
It seems  to me that as Mr H was referred  to Fairway by Mr Ns property business, Fairway 
would have understood that he was already interested in investing  in Harlequin. I think it 
would be fair to conclude that was his objective, as without the wish to invest in Harlequin 
there doesnt seem to have been a firm reason to consider a transfer  to a SIPP at all. That 
doesnt however  mean Fairway needed to agree that this was Mr Hs objective. And as his 
representative has highlighted, it was open to Fairway to suggest other ways of improving on 
the return on his pension. 
Ref: DRN22836723The representative seems  to have overlooked that Fairway did touch upon this within its 
suitability letter. Page 3 referred  both to choosing alternative funds (including  speculative 
funds) with his current provider, or a stakeholder pension which would be cheaper. It can 
clearly be argued that Fairway should have gone  further and made this its firm 
recommendation, but this assumes Mr H would have been open  to varying the investments 
within his pension in ways other  than involving the purchase of a Harlequin  property. Given  
the way in which he was referred  to Fairway, I find it unlikely that would have been  the case.
Ive carefully considered  the representatives point that Fairway should have made a clear  
statement to the effect that it was regulated and Mr Ns business was not. That might have 
been a prudent step to take, however Im again not persuaded it would have made  a 
fundamental difference here. One must ask the question  why Mr H had to be referred to 
Fairway in the first place. Even in the absence  of a statement from Fairway itself defining  its 
role ,I think  it would have been reasonably clear to Mr H that Fairway had more expertise in 
pension advice than Mr N, and it was for that reason he had been  referred.  I note he had 
been referred by a business he had gone  to for pension  advice in the past and which had 
failed to carry out that advice.
Fairway could not hold itself out as being  expert in property investment schemes, and did not 
do so. That makes it unlikely, in my view,  that Mr H would have thought Mr N or his business 
partner were affiliated to Fairway. However Fairway did highlight a lot of the key risks, which 
it would  appear  Mr N did not  but Mr H was undeterred by those warnings. It seems  to me 
Mr H received conflicting views on whether Harlequin property was a desirable investment 
for him to make. But ultimately and no matter how Fairway defined its role, it was for him to 
decide which characterisation of the investment  he went with  that of the firm which 
promoted the investment but had failed to deal with his pension adequately in the recent 
past, or the firm he had been referred  to for specific analysis  of his pension  arrangements.
For the same reason  that Mr H was undeterred  by the risk warnings, I consider it likely he 
would always have  preferred to invest based  on the (it appears) positive spin being  placed 
on the investment  by Mr N, in spite of any firm recommendation Fairway could have given 
not to invest at all. And whilst I dont know the reason  why Fairway didnt insist on Mr H 
returning a signed copy of the suitability letter, in the case of the alternative advice it should 
have given not to transfer,  it would have needed Mr H to confirm  that he was wanting to act 
against its advice.  I agree it couldnt  have presumed  his insistence. But for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision  I consider Mr H would have been willing to provide that 
confirmation if it was necessary  in order to proceed with the investment.
I understand the point about the LLP Mr H and his wife set up. This held a separate  contract  
for the remaining 70% of the purchase price of the Harlequin property, payable on 
completion. Having  an LLP enter into this contract  potentially protected Mr H personally from 
having to fund the completion monies. However this actually shows the thought that was 
being put into the purchase from Mr Ns side, and in my view is a further complication to 
being able to conclude that Mr H would  have been  prepared to disregard Mr Ns 
encouragement to invest.
I said in my provisional decision that a further key element in Mr Hs relationship with Mr N 
was the £5,000 incentive. It can be said with hindsight that £5,000 (and even the reservation 
fee of £1,000 in addition if this wasnt cancellable) was a relatively  small fraction of Mr Hs 
total pension funds  but Im not satisfied Mr H would have seen it that way at the time. This 
mechanism effectively allowed him to liberate some of his pension fund before the minimum 
age he was allowed  to do so, and served  to further enhance the attractiveness  of the 
proposition. I think its fair to say that Mr H was already not expecting to lose his pension  
Ref: DRN22836724fund, despite Fairways  warnings, otherwise it stands to reason that he would not have 
agreed to invest.  It would appear,  from Mr Hs account, that such  was his determination  to 
invest that he accepted a loan from Mr N that he did not wish to take.
Ive also given careful thought to the suggestion that Fairways £1,000 charge was a 
contingent fee; in other  words it only stood to benefit if the transfer  went ahead. Fairway 
suggests it would have sought  to charge Mr H regardless, but I have to observe that its 
introductory letter to Mr H structures the fee on this basis.  However I do note that this 
structure didnt  prevent  Fairway firmly advising against a transfer in some  other  cases where 
it felt it should do so. And although I think Fairway should have structured its fee differently, I 
dont think that alone can alter the strong evidence there is on this case  to demonstrate  that 
Mr H would have wanted to transfer in spite of any advice from Fairway.
Fairway says COBS 10 doesnt  apply. I agree this was an advised sale,  and advising against 
a transfer (as I think Fairway should have done) doesnt change  that. But I was referring to 
COBS 10 as it provides  a useful indication of the freedom businesses still had to carry out a 
transaction on a clients instruction that they didnt think was in the clients  interests. I think 
thats relevant  here. 
In my provisional decision I went as far as considering  the possibility of Fairway  refusing to 
carry out the transaction. Even though I didnt think it would necessarily  have had to refuse  
in the circumstances of this case,  I concluded  that there were other ways of Mr H going 
ahead. I would normally say it would be difficult for a consumer to know  how to set up a 
SIPP without  using  an adviser, but its apparent that Mr N was an influential  force  in this 
case  and as a Harlequin introducer he could easily find out which providers in the market 
would work  with Harlequin.  So thats why I have some  confidence  that Mr H would have 
found a way of investing,  whether Fairway  agreed to act on an insistent basis or not.
my final decision
For all of the reasons  above and in my provisional decision, Ive concluded  that Fairway has 
not caused the losses Mr H has unfortunately suffered,  and I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22836725Provisional decision of 11 February  2020
background
In August 2011 Mr H completed a reservation form for his Harlequin property, which involved paying  a 
non-refundable fee of £1,000.  He did this having  spoken to Mr N, who was an unregulated  agent  for 
Harlequin. Fairway has told us that it was then approached by Mr N to assist a number of clients who 
wanted to establish SIPPs in order to invest their pensions in Harlequin  properties. In Mr Hs case, 
this was to transfer a personal pension  plan he already held. He also completed a form of authority for 
Fairway to act on his behalf  at that time.
Both parties have  commented about Mr Ns association  with another  FCA-regulated firm. In fact, he 
hadnt carried out regulated financial services activities since 2003. (After the events  involved in this 
complaint, he went on to work  as an appointed representative of a different firm in 2012.) Fairway 
says that it understood  (correctly) that Mr N didnt have authorisation to advise on pension  transfers at 
that time.
Fairway has supplied the following documents which  it says were provided by Mr N:
-A completed Confidential  Financial  Review  (fact find) bearing Fairways own name.
-The first three pages of an Attitude to Investment Risk Questionnaire, which  Mr H says Mr N 
emailed to him on 24 August, copying Fairway  in. On this the highest of six risk categories had 
been ticked, including the following declarations:
o I can afford  to lose a large proportion of money without my financial security being affected
o I am prepared to accept a very high degree  of risk
o My earning capacity is such that I can absorb this risk
o I am prepared to invest for the long term and do not require access to my money  in the 
medium to long term
o I accept the risk of losing  most  or all of my money
One declaration  wasnt ticked: I have  existing  investments and have a very good understanding 
of how investment markets work
-A SIPP appropriateness  document  Guardian had required  Mr H to complete. Rather  than saying 
he had received advice (which required an FCA registration number to be given),  Mr H stated he 
had not received advice and was an execution only customer.  He signed below a declaration 
saying, amongst other things:
I understand and am comfortable with the level of risk of this investment, there is no guarantee 
that higher risk leads to higher returns, and I may get back less than I have invested.
I understand that I may not easily be able to sell the investment  and that this could impact on my 
ability to take pension benefits from my plan if I do not have sufficient liquid assets held 
elsewhere and that this in turn increases the risk to my retirement planning
The fact find recorded that Mr H was married, had three children, aged 45 and was self-employed 
with a gross  annual  income of £30,000. They had a joint mortgage of £40,000 and a little over 
£13,000 in deposits.  Some handwritten notes on this document,  which appear to be when Fairway 
took over and completed the advice  process,  record  Inv in [pension] scheme  £74k. Large  proportion  
of future savings therefore stress to client risk being taken. High level of disposable income available 
for alternative savings regime. The disposable income  noted on the fact find was £1,380 per month. 
Fairway initially wrote to Mr H on 3 September 2011 setting out its fee of £1,000 to advise on whether 
a transfer of his existing pension  to the SIPP  was suitable. It set out in this letter that it was only in a 
position to advise on a SIPP, not the investment property.
By 26 September 2011 Fairway was in a position to issue its suitability letter (dated 23 September) to 
Mr H. This said his SIPP application had already been forwarded to Guardian,  but the discharge form 
from his existing  pension provider  was enclosed  if he wanted to go ahead having  read the letter. 
Ref: DRN22836726There was a small  transfer penalty of 0.6%  on the personal pension  of about £74,000 Mr H was 
transferring, but no ancillary benefits (eg Guaranteed Annuity Rates) being lost.
Fairway has explained to this service that having  taken compliance advice, it realised it would need to 
comment on the suitability of investing in a property  development such  as Harlequin in this letter.  But 
it only commented  in general terms as it did not wish to be seen  to endorse Harlequin over any other 
commercial property investment. Fairway  said:
we cannot provide  specific  advice in relation  to your proposed  investment however we would 
suggest that investing in one particular  investment  of this nature should  be classed as a high risk 
investment approach.
It went on to say that Mr Hs proposed investment was highly speculative, and there  is the potential 
for you to lose the entire investment within your pension scheme as a worse possible scenario. It 
added, The Attitude to Risk questionnaire  highlights  a number of issues that we feel you should  
consider prior to completing this particular investment.
This appears to be a reference to some  supplementary pages  specifically about  Harlequin, which 
were added to the attitude to risk questionnaire and sent to Mr H on 26 September. These included  
the following comments:
We agreed that you have this investment risk profile because ...: You understand that by investing 
your entire  fund within one specific  investment  sector and gearing  the advance  to include a 
significant proportion  of borrowing you are taking a relatively high risk/high possible reward  
investment stance. 
Risks involved include the risk that demand for this type of rental accommodation may fall due to 
factors such  as economic  recession, geographical influences, exchange  rate fluctuations and the 
nature of the loan facility  agreed  and the terms and conditions of the advance as well as Political 
risk.
This attitude to risk addendum  set out that Harlequin  appeared  to be acceptable  for inclusion in a 
SIPP, but was not guaranteed to perform as expected:
You should not proceed with an investment of this nature  unless you are prepared to take a high 
risk investment approach  which could  result in the loss of part or all of your savings. 
On the basis that you understand the specialist  nature of the Harlequin investment and the 
associated risk of utilising  your savings  in this investment we are happy to recommend 
establishment of a Guardian Self Invested Personal Pension to allow completion of this 
transaction. 
However we would reaffirm  that if you have  any doubts about  the nature of the Harlequin 
proposition or any aspect of the risks involved  you should  not proceed.
The enquiries  we have made on the projected investment returns  appear to be very enticing 
showing high-quality hotels and resorts.  The forecast investment  returns  appear extremely 
attractive. From an investment return perspective the income projected through  rental of the rooms 
indicates investment returns in excess of 10% per annum with associated  potential  capital 
appreciation on the investment of over 20% per annum.
We cannot  substantiate these figures and whilst  they appear  to be very attractive, we would  
recommend caution as we have been unable to substantiate how these projections have been 
calculated. The projected investment returns are by no means guaranteed.

We have  been advised that the funds you wish to utilise  for investment within the Harlequin 
proposition will be used to invest within  the Rodney Bay resort which we understand from our 
enquiries is now well established and is due to open next year.However,  we cannot guarantee 
that any funds released to Harlequin will be used directly to complete your individual unit/s and 
therefore we would recommend you seek confirmation of this prior to authorising any payment to 
Harlequin.
Ref: DRN22836727The sales information we have  indicates that an investors funds can be repaid when required to 
SIPP investors. We would suggest caution here as this is rarely seen with investments held within  
Direct Property /Land investments. We would  question  whether Harlequin  will retain sufficient  cash 
reserves to facilitate significant withdrawals if demand arises. This could result in any investment 
being very illiquid i.e. your funds being tied up and unavailable for a significant time period.
Fairway warned that if Mr H couldnt:  fulfil the requirements to understand the nature and risks of the 
investment; afford  to lose a large proportion of money without his financial  security being affected; 
have earning capacity to absorb this risk; and avoid needing to access the money  in the medium  to 
long term;  then:
 
we cannot recommend  the establishment of the SIPP on your behalf and would not be in a 
position to proceed to act for you in establishment of your Self Invested Personal Pension plan. If 
this is the case you should contact us at your earliest  opportunity. If we do not hear from you we 
will assume you are satisfied  with your initial request and continue to establish  your plan.
Fairway discussed other funds with Mr Hs existing  provider, or a stakeholder pension  which would  
charge less than his existing scheme. The suitability  letter gave details of Guardians  costs which at 
least in the first year, will significantly exceed  those  charged under your existing scheme . The letter 
had a recommendation  section, which said:
Your existingscheme offers access to a broad range of investment  funds. However, the contract  
does not provide you with the facility to self-invest within  investments such as the Harlequin 
Planthe Guardian Pension Contract is recommended as it provides a competitively charged 
contract, with the flexibility  required, in order to allow  you to take forward your proposed 
investment.
In view of this, we are happy to recommend your existing benefits be transferred
We would reiterate that you should understand that by transferring benefits from a more  
conventional pension arrangement utilising the expertise of your selected Fund Managers, to a 
more specialist  contract, your pension  savings will initially  incur  greater charges which  could 
ultimately result  in a lower  level of pension being available to you at retirement.
In addition, in view of your proposed  investment within  your new scheme, you will be significantly 
increasing the investment risk nature of this element of your savings. Therefore, you should  not 
proceed with this transfer, unless you are prepared to take a more speculative investment  
approach with this element  of your retirement provisions.
Fairway requested Mr H sign and return a copy of this suitability letter. Its not clear he did this, but my 
understanding is he returned  the discharge form allowing the transfer to proceed. This prompted 
Fairway to write to him again  on 24 October 2011:
 
As outlined  within our correspondence  and the Risk analysis enclosed  we are unable  to offer any 
guarantees on the potential investment nature  of the Harlequin  Overseas property proposition 
however we would stress once again that you should  not proceed with your proposed investment 
within the Harlequin  development  unless  you fully understand the high risk/ high potential  reward 
nature of this investment.
As outlined  within the Attitude to Investment Risk Questionnaire  enclosed with our previous 
correspondence and within the Appropriateness  Test documentation you signed on 22 August  
there are a number of issues you should consider.  We would reemphasise  that this form of 
investment is speculative  and will increase the risk of loss to your savings.
Conversely if the investment  performs as suggested by Harlequin the investment could produce 
very competitive investment  returns  however  we would stress  once again  that these are not 
guaranteed. 
Therefore, as previously  stated  we can only recommend establishment of your SIPP to facilitate 
your Harlequin  investment on the basis that that you are entirely comfortable  with the investment 
Ref: DRN22836728nature of the Harlequin proposition and your ability to initiate other long term savings from the 
surplus monthly income you have confirmed on the completed Confidential Financial  Review.
The transfer  completed  on 8 November  2011  and the proceeds invested in Harlequin. The property 
development subsequently encountered well-publicised problems and much of Mr Hs investment is 
thought to be lost.
Mr Hs complaint
A legal representative complained on behalf of Mr H in October 2014.  The complaint was based on a 
Financial Services  Authority (FSA) Alert of 18 January 2013 setting  out the factors it required 
authorised firms to consider  when Harlequin  investments were involved.
In its final response, Fairway said that it recommended the transfer on the basis of Mr Hs responses 
to questions indicating he was a high risk investor with surplus income  to generate future  investments, 
and that he understood the comprehensive risk warnings.  Its advice was some  16 months prior to the 
FSA alert. However it considered it had taken into account  the risks, in general, of the Harlequin 
investment in its recommendation  and that its performance  was unsubstantiated and could not be 
guaranteed.
Mr Hs representative referred his complaint  to this service. Fairway told us that it was wary about  
what Mr N had asked it to do, as whilst it was very familiar with pension transfer advice,  it knew  little 
about overseas property developments. It was also aware  of the regulators expectations in respect of 
transfers from personal pension schemes to SIPPs:
we felt that in view of the high risk nature  of the investment and the manner  in which we had 
been introduced to Mr H we had a moral  and ethical  duty of care to highlight  to him in clear and 
concise terms the investment risks involved  in his proposed course  of action.
We could have acted on an Execution Only basis however we felt that by highlighting  these risks 
to him we could ensure that he was fully aware  of the implications of his proposed course  of 
action, a situation  which  we could not guarantee had he proceeded on an Execution  only basis 
with another firm. We feel that had we refused  to act for Mr H, thereby forcing  him to use another  
firm on an Execution  only basis we would have not acted in moral manner as the investment risk 
he was taking  would not have been  outlined to him.
Any reasonable person, on providing  the answers he did and reviewing our suitability  letter  and 
Attitude to Risk questionnaire, would  have realised that the Harlequin  proposition was a highly 
speculative investment.
regardless of the nature of our advice Mr H would  have still proceeded with his chosen course  
of action, our advice would have had no effect on Mr Hs ultimate decision and he would have 
proceeded with the transfer.
Mr H told this service  that in late 2010 Mr N had intended  to transfer the original pension  plan subject  
to this complaint to a new provider, with whom he had just started making contributions. But he 
omitted to do so and later told Mr H in July 2011  that it would be a good move to invest  it into 
Harlequin instead.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and thought that it should succeed. He agreed with 
Fairway that it should have considered the suitability  of the transfer as a whole, including  the 
investment in Harlequin. Given the number of warnings  regarding Harlequin in Fairways documents, 
he also accepted that it did have doubts  about the transaction. But in his view, those  doubts didnt 
translate into a firm recommendation not to transfer, as risk warnings were just that  warnings. He 
went on to conclude that the transfer was not suitable for Mr H because:
-Mr H had limited savings and investments.
-Given his age and the time he had left to retirement, he couldnt afford to risk his only existing 
pension provision [putting  aside  the, presumably, small new plan hed begun].
-He didnt have sufficient on-going income to absorb significant  losses to his pension. 
Ref: DRN22836729-Despite raising the prospect of increased charges, Fairway didnt base  its advice  on the 
prospect that Mr H would likely  be worse off in retirement  due to these.
-Harlequin  also exposed  investors to significant risks such as gearing, opaque corporate 
structures, illiquidity and risk inherent in non-regulated investments.
The adjudicator concluded  that Fairway  should have advised against transferring Mr Hs pension for 
the purposes of investing in Harlequin  instead of adding the caveat that he could transfer if he was 
willing to accept the risks. Had it done so, he considered it highly  unlikely that Mr H would have 
continued to transfer. But had Mr H still been intent on continuing, he considered  Fairway would have  
needed to treat him as an insistent client  by requiring him to specifically acknowledge that he was 
acting against its advice.
Fairway disagreed with the adjudicators findings  for the following main  reasons:
It received  no financial  incentive for facilitating  the pension transfer other than the flat fee of 
£1,000 Mr H paid for establishing the SIPP. But it understood Mr N paid a rebate of his own 
commission to Mr H. This explains why Mr H disregarded  the comprehensive warnings, as 
this inducement was far more important  to him.
The adjudicator was wrong to suggest that Fairway didnt give a clear recommendation not to 
transfer. Two different letters  included  the words, We therefore recommend that you do not 
proceed with this investment  [unless] and You should not proceed with your proposed 
investment[unless].
In line with the COBS  rules, it had identified  that Mr H didnt have  the necessary experience  
and knowledge  to understand  the transaction.  So it explained the risks and warned him of the 
consequences in clear and concise  terms.
The adjudicators stance appears to be totally contrary to the FCAs objectives  of ensuring 
investor protection and improving  the publics perception of a trustworthy and professional 
financial services industry.
The ultimate decision on whether to take forward the investment had to lie with Mr H. 
Advisers must retain the option to act in accordance with an investors ultimate  wishes, 
provided the investor has been  placed in an informed  position.
With hindsight it should have secured  a more  robust explanation from Mr H of why he was so 
determined to proceed. But the outcome would  still have been the same:  Mr H was 
determined to proceed having paid a reservation fee, pre-completed paperwork and wanting 
to secure his commission  rebate.  
It treated Mr H as an insistent client. There were and are still no specific  guidelines within  
COBS rules stating how insistent clients should be handled  this is only briefly covered  in 
COBS 10.3.3  (in a chapter about non-advised services).
More recently,  the FCA has stated that Provided  a client is placed in an informed  position an 
adviser may proceed with an investment the client wishes to take forward despite an advisers 
recommendation to the contrary. 
The adjudicator requested  Mr H provide a response. The key points he made were:
Mr N said he was so confident in the scheme that he would personally lend him £5,000 to be 
repaid on first commission.
He did not need to raise  any money at the time of the transaction. If he had, he could have 
borrowed from parents,  got a bank loan or added to his mortgage  at a low rate.
He initially refused the £5,000 because he was worried  about owing this sum to Mr N. 
However, Mr N insisted and said that even  if he didnt  get the commission he would  owe him 
nothing  so Mr H banked this cheque at the end of December 2011. 
If Fairway had categorically told him not to proceed then he would not have gone ahead, as 
he didnt have  the necessary  experience and knowledge. That is why he took the advice of a 
financial adviser.
After seeing sight of Mr Hs response  and the full file, Fairway repeated much of its already submitted 
arguments. The following new points were added: 
Ref: DRN228367210-The record showed  it expressed caution  where any investor exhibited  an interest in Harlequin, 
and on one occasion it refused to act for a further introduced client.  
-Its decision to stress the inherent risks within the risk questionnaire (which  it referred to in its 
letters), rather than incorporate these within the suitability report, was deliberately intended to 
highlight them  in a more targeted manner.
-In our questionnaire, Mr H had mentioned  (then crossed through) the following  about 
Harlequin: was told that would  be getting a yearly income in the meantime  before 
retirement anyway. This response confirms  his objective  was to access  benefits  from his 
pension savings before the minimum  pension  age of 55.
The adjudicator considered the further points made by both parties. He remained of the view that 
Fairway should have firmly  told Mr H not to transfer his pension to a SIPP for the purposes of property 
investment. In contrast the suitability report hed seen gave qualified advice to Mr H (on the basis  of 
whether he could accept the risk), and placed the onus on Mr H to make a decision.  It effectively 
moved the risk in ensuring appropriate advice  was given, from the adviser to the client. 
He accepted that the cash inducement, which  wasnt initially disclosed in the information Mr H 
provided to us, might  alter the matter and would be considered carefully by an ombudsman. But he 
continued to think that if unqualified advice was provided  Mr H would  have followed it, notwithstanding 
that he would lose the benefit of the inducement.
Fairway responded  by pointing  out the following  over the course  of a number of letters:
-Harlequin was not a conventional investment which had the benefit of historic investment 
performance, or a star rating  in order to be reviewed by a financial adviser in detail. 
-If a financial adviser was approached by a client wishing to establish  a SIPP to facilitate  a 
commercial property  purchase  (for example),  it could only consider the proposition in general 
terms. Fairway  could  not make a specific recommendation on whether the client should 
purchase a particular  building  or unit  and the same applied for a property-based  investment 
scheme such as Harlequin. 
-Whilst it set out to Mr H at the time that it did not have specialist knowledge  in the overseas  
property market, it did highlight the additional risks it perceived in the development due to 
currency fluctuations and accessibility. 
-A scheme  such as Harlequin fell within  Mr Hs assessment as a high risk investor. Had he 
said he was balanced  or low risk, it would have categorically stated that Harlequin was not 
appropriate and made a clear recommendation against  it. 
-There was inevitably an overconcentration  in a single  asset  as Mr H was purchasing  a single  
off-plan property unit, and couldnt buy a smaller number of shares  as he could with 
conventional investments. That was why Fairway  drew his attention to the alternative of using 
conventional, higher risk insured funds.
-If Mr H was truly interested in any advice  Fairway provided he wouldnt have totally ignored 
the report  and would have raised  these  issues  with Fairway.
-It wasnt aware the ombudsman service had concluded Harlequin  fulfilled the criteria of an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). This wasnt deemed to be the case at the 
time of its advice. 
-Mr H advised Fairway  in writing that he was prepared to take a high-risk investment 
approach. How could Fairway subsequently defend itself if it had advised  against the 
investment entirely, and Harlequin  had subsequently achieved high returns?
-Mr H has admitted he and his wife were sceptical  of the Harlequin proposition  (despite  
having paid £1,000 to reserve the investment). Yet the number of warnings he ignored 
contradicted statements  that he did not want to risk his pension  monies.
-Fairway did say to Mr H that he should not proceed. So it assumed  it could classify him as an 
insistent client when he returned  the discharge form nonetheless.
-It believed Mr H was set up as a sub-introducer,  to secure commission payment for the 
introduction of new investors to Harlequin.
The adjudicator duly queried whether Mr H was a Harlequin sub-introducer and also asked him to 
explain why he had decided to invest in Harlequin despite Fairways warnings to the contrary. Mr H 
Ref: DRN228367211said he never  introduced  anyone  to the scheme and never received  any commission. Mr N did 
suggest he recommend friends to the scheme, but he never did this. His representative  added that 
payment of the £1,000 reservation fee was normal practice and compulsory in all cases. This was not 
a commitment to proceed. So it remained of the view that Mr H would have pulled out of the 
investment on clear,  unequivocal advice from Fairway   as he could not afford  to lose his pension 
savings.
Fairway then began to raise concerns, as a result of other complaints it received, about the extent of 
the long-term relationships these Harlequin  investors already had with Mr N. Its view now was that all 
of the investors concerned would have proceeded, irrespective of its advice, because of the 
relationship of trust they had already built up with Mr N. Unlike with Mr N, the investors  had no 
previous relationship with Fairway, which explained why they were willing to disregard  its advice.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing  for Mr H but my current 
view differs from that of the adjudicator: I dont consider his complaint should  be upheld. Ill set out my 
reasoning under a series  of headings below.
what are the regulators rules applying to this case?
Fairway initially undertook  to provide  advice to Mr H on the transfer of his personal pension to a new 
SIPP provider. But it appears  to have correctly  recognised  before the conclusion of its dealings with 
Mr H, that it was responsible  for considering  the suitability  of the overall transaction  including  the 
destination of his funds  once they arrived in the SIPP (Harlequin). 
The reason for this is in chapter 9 of the COBS rulebook, which applies to a firm making  a personal 
recommendation in relation to a designated investment.  (I note Fairways  concern  that Harlequin  
hadnt been identified  as a UCIS at the time of its advice,  but both the transferring personal  pension 
and receiving SIPP were designated investments.)
COBS 9.2.2R required  Fairway to obtain the information necessary  to have a reasonable  basis for 
believing its recommendation meets his investment objectives;  that Mr H was able to bear any 
related investment risks; and that Mr H had the necessary  experience and knowledge  to understand 
those risks.
Mr Hs main objective was to invest in Harlequin property. The SIPP  was recommended specifically 
for that purpose. So it follows that the risks Harlequin entailed were related to the recommended 
product. Whilst  the complaint brought by Mr Hs representative was based on an FSA alert in January 
2013 about Harlequin and other unregulated investments, the FSA published this alert to draw  
attention to the fact that a significant number of firms werent following these existing rules. Indeed,  
Fairways position seems  to be that it revised  its approach whilst  dealing with Mr H to ensure that it 
did comply  with those rules.
COBS 9.2.2R is effectively  setting out the requirement  for any regulated firm to carry out a fact find. 
Im concerned in this case that the fact find process seems to have been initiated by Mr N. And at 
least in respect  of Mr Hs attitude to risk, Fairway  was supplied with Mr Hs view (likely  reached in 
conjunction with Mr N) that he was in the highest of six categories on its scale. Fairway appears to 
have accepted  this assessment without question.
COBS 2.4.6R suggests  that Fairway  could be taken to be in compliance with the rules requiring it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information provided to 
it in writing by another person. But COBS  2.4.7E implies an assessment of whether the other person 
is competent to provide the information, and COBS 2.4.8G suggests  it would be reasonable for 
Fairway to rely on information provided by an unconnected authorised  person or a professional  firm. 
In this case, it doesnt  appear Mr N was either authorised  or in an otherwise  regulated profession at 
the time of Mr Hs pension transfer. As an agent for Harlequin, it was also in his financial interests for 
Ref: DRN228367212the investment  to proceed. Taking all of this together, I think Fairway shouldnt have  accepted Mr Hs 
assessment as a high risk investor where  it was likely Mr N had been involved in that assessment. It 
should have carried out its own assessment,  and then proceeded to assess  the suitability  of the 
transaction based on this.
This doesnt mean Fairway  needed  to be expert in overseas  property schemes, particularly given  that 
this was not an investment  proposition it brought to Mr Hs attention itself. There were  almost certainly 
other parties with a more  detailed understanding of how the scheme  worked, so I dont think it was 
wrong of Fairway to warn  Mr H that it didnt  specialise  in these types of investments.  And I can 
understand its comparison with the situation where  a client wants to invest  their SIPP in a UK 
commercial property  whilst  more expert solicitors or surveyors  are likely to be involved, the financial  
adviser can still draw  the key risks of this type of investment to the clients  attention, and say whether 
they recommend  it on that basis.
In this case I think Fairway made a reasonable  effort to identify the key risks involved in Harlequin, 
which went further  than just property-related  risks as it was an investment scheme.  And given  the 
steps it took I think Fairway  was in a position to make a clear recommendation as to whether or not 
Mr H should invest. Part of this involved  issuing  a suitability letter,  which  under COBS 9.4.7R 
(amongst other things)  had to explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction 
is suitable for the client. But as Ive noted in a number  of places above, Fairways recommendations 
were qualified by such statements as:
-On the basis that you understand  the specialist natureand  the associated  riskwe  are 
happy to recommend
-Therefore,  you should not proceed with this transfer,  unless you are prepared to take a more 
speculative investment  approach
I take a similar view to the adjudicator that this had the effect of shifting the implications  of the adviser 
giving potentially unsuitable advice from Fairway  to Mr H. The regulators rules  required Fairway to 
explain whether it could justify a decision for Mr H to transfer  his pension and invest in Harlequin 
based on such things  as his attitude  to and capacity for risk  and if not, why not. Mr H would  have 
been free to disregard a clear and unequivocal  recommendation and act as an insistent client, which  
is what Fairway  believes he was in effect  doing in response  to its qualified recommendation.
As Fairway  has noted,  the FSA didnt have a specific rule in COBS 9 on insistent clients at that time. It 
referred to COBS 10.3.3, which addresses non-advised  sales where a firm had warned a client that 
the product or service  they had asked to carry out was inappropriate for them.  Nevertheless that rule 
does suggest the firm still had a choice  whether to facilitate a transaction on an insistent client basis 
having regard to the circumstances. 
COBS 2.1.1R required  a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  with the best 
interests of its client . Insistent clients had also previously arisen in the case  of opt-outs or transfers 
from defined benefit pension schemes, for which purpose there had been a rule in the previous COB  
handbook (5.3.25R) requiring a firm to make and retain a clear record of both its advice against, and 
the clients  instructions to proceed.  And then to provide a further confirmation and explanation, in 
writingthat the firms  advice is that the [client]  should not proceed. The regulator had also 
suggested during the industry-wide review of pension transfers  and opt-outs  that a note in the clients 
own hand provided  more  compelling evidence  of their insistence  to proceed. The regulator has since 
published further guidance on insistent clients more generally, but this post-dates Mr Hs transfer.
Fairway made a recommendation  to Mr H, which  in my view was to proceed (albeit with caveats) 
rather than not to proceed. But in a way which  is similar to what the regulator  envisaged with insistent 
clients, Fairway  then gave a second explanation  in writing  of its advice. It appears this was out of 
concern that he fully understood the consequences of his decision to transfer.  But its important to 
note that this second letter  was also a recommendation to transfer, with essentially the same caveats. 
So I need to make clear  that whilst the sequence  of letters and the warnings  they contained was 
unusual, this was far from being an insistent client case. But what  I will go on to consider now is:
Ref: DRN228367213-what Fairways  advice to Mr H should have been;
-if it had given advice not to transfer,  whether this would have made  a difference  to Mr Hs 
decision; and
-whether Mr H could fairly have been treated as an insistent client.
what Fairways advice to Mr H should have been 
Whether Fairway  knew that Harlequin met the criteria  to be a UCIS or not, its clear that this was a 
high risk, non-mainstream investment. The addendum to Fairways attitude  to risk questionnaire 
highlighted, amongst other  things,  that Mr H was investing  within one specific sector; the scheme 
involved gearing  (borrowing); there were economic, geographical, political and exchange rate risks;  
and the projected returns couldnt be substantiated.  It added that his investment might be pooled with 
other sums,  not necessarily used to complete the development hed selected, and that it was unclear 
how Harlequin  would be able to repay the investment if required.
All of these points, which I agree with, suggest  to me that the Harlequin  scheme  could only have been 
suitably recommended  to experienced investors who could also afford to take the multiple risks 
involved. Mr H was transferring almost all of the pension provision hed built up to that point in 
conventional insured funds.  What savings  he and his wife had were not exposed to risk. The one box 
he didnt tick on the attitude to risk questionnaire  was that he had existing investments, or understood 
how markets  work. So I couldnt fairly say Mr H was an experienced investor.
As COBS  9.2.2R makes  clear, it is not only Mr Hs investment objectives  stated to include his 
preferences regarding risk taking  which Fairway needed to assess; but also whether  he can bear 
any related  investment risks. In other words, his capacity to take risk was just as relevant as his 
attitude to risk. Mr H appears to have confirmed  on the attitude to risk questionnaire that he was 
willing to take a high risk for a potentially  higher  reward. He also indicated that he had the capacity to 
take this risk because his financial security would be unaffected  if he lost most  or all of the money, as 
a result of his earning capacity and being willing  to invest for the long term.
Despite this answer  I consider it should have been apparent to Fairway that there was a problem with 
Mr Hs capacity to take this risk, whether  or not he considered himself to be a risk taker.  He might not 
have viewed the loss of his pension as an immediate  threat to his financial  security, because  this was 
an asset he couldnt access until age 55. However  as a self-employed person he would  need this 
pension to support himself  throughout retirement. 
Fairway did record surplus income  of £1,380 per month, and it appears some of this was being paid 
into a new pension. However  his earnings  were not what I would  call substantial  and with three 
dependent children, Im doubtful that Mr H would be able to make significant further long-term 
commitments. It would also take many years  to accumulate  another fund of £74,000, and Mr H was 
putting a sum of that size at considerable risk by investing in Harlequin.
Im satisfied that the only suitable advice Fairway could  reasonably have given  to Mr H in these  
circumstances was not to transfer his pension to a SIPP  to invest  in Harlequin. It could have explored, 
as it did highlight  at the time, whether he could  improve  the potential  returns  by varying  the fund 
choice  either in his existing plan or a low-cost stakeholder alternative.  But Mr H in my view had 
limited scope to significantly increase the risks he was taking, as he would be reliant on these funds to 
a significant degree in retirement. 
Whether Fairway  advised  on no transfer at all, or to switch between insured funds in a low cost plan, I 
consider the COBS rules  required it to give this advice without any qualifications   so that Mr H was in 
no doubt that Fairways view was that he should not transfer to a SIPP or invest  in Harlequin. Its 
notable that this could have been achieved  relatively easily by Fairway  simply not including the 
caveats in either of its letters which transferred the risk of unsuitable advice to Mr H. Indeed Fairway 
says that if Mr H had been a low or medium  risk investor (which I think  he was), it would have given 
precisely this advice.
Ref: DRN228367214whether clear advice not to transfer to a SIPP would have altered  Mr Hs decision
Fairway says that an unequivocal recommendation not to transfer  would have made  no difference due 
to the greater  level of confidence Mr H evidently  had in what  Mr N was saying. I can see its point of 
view, and I understand why it wanted the adjudicator to ask Mr H more questions about his prior 
dealings with Mr N. We know a fair bit about  this from the questionnaire Mr H completed for the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  which he then clarified in a subsequent  letter. Mr H said:
I initially  just wanted  advice as I was not sure if my pension was performing well. [Mr N] came  
recommended to me as a financial advisor. [Mr N] recommended I transfer my pension to [another 
provider]. When I realised  there  were errors in the monthly payments I contacted  him. Then at a 
later date he informed me that there had been an error and the funds  had not been transferred. 
 He asked  if my wife and I believed in fate and this was meant to be and this is how I ended  up 
transferring the pension with Harlequin.
Separately, Mr H has suggested Mr N held himself out as working for another  regulated firm. The 
FCA register does not bear this out, although Im aware that firm employed  many of the staff who 
used to work for the company through which Mr N was last regulated in 2003. Its possible that firm 
was involved in arranging the other pension Mr H mentions, because  its unlikely Mr N would have 
been dealing directly with providers as an unregulated  individual. I accept this is Mr Hs honest  
recollection of how Mr N presented himself,  but this does confirm in my view that they had a prior 
relationship and it appears Mr H continued  to place  faith in Mr N despite some apparent shortcomings  
in setting up his other pension.
Mr H has also disclosed a financial incentive he received from investing in Harlequin, although Im 
concerned that it was some  time into our investigation  before he did so. I accept  he wouldnt 
necessarily have been unresponsive to advice not to transfer  having only paid the £1,000 Harlequin  
reservation fee, but £5,000 is not an insignificant sum. Mr H suggests he could have borrowed that 
amount easily, but borrowing on standard terms would  attract interest. This incentive would have 
increased Mr and Mrs Hs liquid non-pension  assets by more than a third at that time. Importantly in 
my view it was a benefit Mr H was gaining  from his pension without having to wait until the minimum 
age of 55 to do so. Ive found no evidence  that Fairway was aware that Mr H was receiving this 
incentive. 
Whilst Mr H describes the £5,000 as only a loan from Mr N, this appears to have been a loan against 
a future stream of commission for recommending  other investors to Harlequin. In common with other 
clients of Mr N, he was advised to set up a Limited  Liability Partnership (LLP) to receive these 
payments. Mr H denies he received payments  through the LLP and its accounts support this, but 
nevertheless the partnership was set up and has never been  dissolved. I dont think this is information 
Fairway was aware of until the complaint, and its further evidence of Mr Hs willingness to act on 
Mr Ns advice.
Ive also considered the extensive risk warnings  Fairway provided. I think  Fairway is right to question 
why Mr H didnt once,  over the course of two letters, query the concerns it was highlighting. I dont 
think this can be entirely explained simply by the fact that Fairway did recommend the transfer but 
with caveats.  The caveats identified  significant concerns which, if Mr H had been intent on relying on 
Fairways (rather than Mr Ns) advice, I think he would  have acknowledged and discussed with 
Fairway further. 
In the end, although Fairways recommendation should have been clearer, I think Mr H would  still 
have made  his own decision to disregard  advice  not to transfer  because  of the strength of the 
relationship he had with Mr N. It would  have  been  a significant retreat not only to cancel the 
reservation of the property for which  hed already paid £1,000,  but also lose the loaned £5,000 
incentive payment which he was likely  to recover  from future commission.
As I mentioned above  Fairway appears to have assumed  Mr H was intent on proceeding  as its letter  
provided a way for him to do so (returning the discharge form). I dont think  Fairway would have  been 
acting in Mr Hs best interests if it had instead given a clear and unequivocal  recommendation not to 
Ref: DRN228367215transfer, but readily facilitated a transfer by enclosing  the discharge form with the same letter.  But 
from the evidence we have  I cant safely conclude  that the outcome would  have been any different, 
had Fairway  given its recommendation and then awaited contact from Mr H. 
Fairways letter to Mr H of 23 September 2011, in combination with the attitude to risk questionnaire  it 
enclosed, highlighted essentially the same concerns  I would  expect to have seen in a letter which  
firmly advised against  transferring. Im not satisfied Mr H was relying to any great degree on what 
Fairway told him. It seems likely to me that Mr H would have got back in contact,  stating his intention  
to proceed nonetheless. And that would  then have meant Fairway needed to consider if it should treat 
him as an insistent client.
whether Mr H could fairly have been treated as an insistent client
As a result  of Mr H asking  to make the transfer despite its advice, Fairway would have had a record of 
those instructions. That would be consistent with the regulators previous expectations on insistent 
clients, for example in COB 5.3.25R. As COBS 10.3.3  indicates (whilst  in a chapter about  non-
advised sales  it is supported by subsequent regulatory guidance), it would  then be a matter  for 
Fairway to decide if it was willing to process his case as an insistent client. 
I accept that there  might  be limiting cases where the transaction was so clearly not in the clients best 
interests that a business  should, on any fair and reasonable basis, not have carried  it out. That might 
perhaps be where there was clear evidence of undue influence, or a severe  lack of understanding on 
the consumers part. I dont think thats the case here, particularly given the efforts Fairway would still 
have gone to in its advice to highlight  the key risks,  and it didnt know about the incentive Mr H was 
receiving.
Its not surprising that investors often first learn of schemes  like Harlequin through unregulated 
individuals. But based on what  Fairway  knew of Mr Ns involvement I dont consider it would have had 
a strong reason to believe  when embarking  on its advice,  that Mr H was not open to considering that 
advice seriously and carefully.  Its evident that Fairway  did become  concerned about  why Mr H and 
other individuals were intent on proceeding, but it dealt with this in a similar  way to how the regulator 
expected firms to deal with insistent clients  by re-stating the concerns it had. And I still dont think  
Fairways second letter would have deterred Mr H from transferring even if had been written without 
caveats, and in acknowledgement  that hed already instructed it to act against its advice.
Fairway mentions it did decide not to act for another investor. This investor may not have been in the 
same situation as Mr H  for instance Im aware of investors with defined benefit  pensions that 
Fairway firmly recommended against transferring. But even if Fairway had refused to act for Mr H, 
which I dont think it had to do in this case, I think its evident he was intent on transferring  in any 
event. He could have done this by acting as an insistent  client through  another firm or by opening a 
SIPP with a number of providers as an execution-only  client.  So that also gives me reason  to say it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Fairway responsible for his loss.
Naturally, Mr H will regret having decided to invest in Harlequin, but he played  a key part in that 
decision. In my view it isnt fair and reasonable to hold Fairway responsible for the consequences of 
the shortcomings in its advice, when  Mr H would likely  still have transferred and invested in Harlequin, 
but for those shortcomings.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Mr Hs complaint. 
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2283672