K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
September 2019. Ive attached that decision here and it forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to submit any further  evidence they wished  me to consider before I 
made my final decision. Neither party asked me to consider anything  new.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M hasnt  provided any further information about  her employment circumstances at the 
time. And as neither  party  had anything  further to add in light of my provisional findings  I see 
no reason to depart from those findings. 
In summary,  I cant fairly say that Mrs M lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint so it follows that Financial Insurance Company Limited 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23232802Provisional  decision
background
Mrs M took out a store  card with FICL in 2004. At the same time she bought PPI which would  have 
helped cover her repayments if she couldnt work. 
Mrs M says that she wasnt  given enough information about the PPI. She says that as an agency 
worker she wouldnt have qualified  for the unemployment  cover. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Ms complaint  should be upheld because FICL didnt  give Mrs M 
enough information about the policy  for her to make an informed decision.  Had it done so, the 
adjudicator thought that Mrs M wouldnt have bought the policy.
FICL disagrees, so the case  has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding  Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs M doesnt complain that she didnt  know she had a choice about  taking the policy, or that it was 
added without her consent. And FICL has provided  a copy  of Mrs Ms application  for the store  card 
which has a separate section for the PPI. I can see from this that Mrs M had a choice about taking the 
policy and signed to say she wanted it. So Im satisfied  that Mrs M bought the PPI knowing she had a 
choice about it.
FICL didnt make a personal  recommendation  to Mrs M about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps  to make  sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave her all the 
information she needed  to make her own decision. I dont think  FICL did this well enough. For 
example, theres no mention  of what the exact benefits  or costs were. But this doesnt mean  I should 
automatically uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  I have  to consider, given her circumstances at the time of 
sale, whether  Mrs M would have acted differently and not bought the policy if shed had all the 
information she needed.
When the adjudicator  first looked at this case they concluded that Mrs M wouldnt have been  able to 
make a successful claim  for unemployment because she told us she was an agency worker at the 
time of sale.  Consumers on fixed term contracts, as many  agency workers are, were excluded from 
cover in certain circumstances.  
FICL pointed  out that Mrs M hadnt been able to say how long shed been working in the agency role. 
If Mrs M had been  with the same employer  for at least 24 months and had her contract renewed at 
least twice in that time with no reason  to believe it wouldnt be renewed again, then Mrs M would have 
been covered. 
The adjudicator went back to Mrs M, through her representatives, to clarify. Her representatives  
explained that Mrs M checked her CV and she had actually  been permanently  employed for over a 
year. So the tenure  of her employment was no longer a reason why the complaint could be upheld. 
Ref: DRN23232803The adjudicator looked at Mrs Ms circumstances in that employment. Mrs M said that she would have 
had good sick pay, so the adjudicator thought that if shed better  understood the costs  and benefits of 
the policy   for example  that the cost of the premiums  were added  to the outstanding  balance and 
shed have needed to pay interest on them  that she wouldnt have bought the policy, because  her 
existing means were  sufficient.
FICL has queried the change  in Mrs Ms evidence. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Without more detailed evidence  about Mrs Ms employment status and available benefits at the time 
of sale I cant fairly  uphold Mrs Ms complaint on this basis. However,  if Mrs M is able to provide 
documentary evidence of her employment circumstances  and any employee  benefits available to her 
at the time of sale, I will revisit my provisional findings here. 
On the basis of the information available to me at this time, I cant  safely  say that Mrs M lost out as a 
result of anything FICL  did wrong.
my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. If my decision becomes  final that would  mean  
FICL didnt have to pay any compensation. However, as explained, I am prepared to look at Mrs Ms 
complaint again if she is able to provide the evidence I have  detailed above by 13 October  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2323280