K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Close Brothers  Limited  ended  the finance  agreement funding  his car 
insurance policy unfairly.
background
In April 2019 Mr B took out a finance  agreement with Close Brothers to fund his car 
insurance. The policy cost £2,102  and Mr B paid a deposit  of £310 with the balance  paid in 
monthly instalments.  Mr B had an accident which  led to him being in financial  difficulties.  He 
called Close Brothers  in late June 2018 to ask that his next payment be delayed  by two or 
three weeks. He was told the business  may be able to help going  forward and the matter 
would be referred  to another team.
The following  day Close  Brothers called Mr B twice and on the second occasion he 
answered and said it wasnt convenient to speak  and he would  call back.  He didnt do so and 
it says it wasnt able to treat him as a vulnerable customer  and he went through its normal 
processes. Mr B called the insurer on 2 and 23 July to explain his predicament.  
Mr B missed  his next payment and without hearing  from him Close  Brothers cancelled his 
credit agreement on 24 July. It has explained  that this was in line with its terms and 
conditions. It says it wrote to him on 3 and 13 July setting out the status  of his account. Mr B 
contacted the business  again on 21 August by which time it says it was too late to have the 
cover reinstated.
Mr B says that he was dependent  on a car and so had to hire one and take out short term 
insurance cover which cost him £2,561.17.  Mr B brought a complaint to this service  where  it 
was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt  think it appropriate  for the business to have cancelled the agreement  
so quickly when it had been made aware  of Mr Bs situation. He thought that if it was unable 
to accept his initial  verbal  notification  of his problem, then it should have made more 
attempts to contact  him before effectively terminating his insurance. He noted it took less 
than a month for the business to end the cover. 
He said he didnt think Mr B should be refunded his deposit as he wouldnt have  received  
this money back if the policy hadnt been  cancelled. He also addressed  Mr Bs claim that his 
credit status  had been affected, but in the absence  of clear evidence  he didnt think  he could 
ask the business to compensate him for this. 
Mr B initially  didnt agree and felt he was entitled  to greater compensation. He also produced  
further evidence  of additional  expenditure which the investigator and accepted  had 
increased the sum he believed Close Brothers  should pay. 
The business didnt  agree and said Mr Bs failure  to return  the call on or after 29 July 
prevented it from considering his circumstances and so he fell back into the normal 
procedures. Under  these he had 21 days to clear  any outstanding balance and as he didnt 
do so the agreement came to an end. It also said that as Mr B had contacted it on 29 June  
its processes didnt allow for the 2 July due date to be altered. 
Ref: DRN26120532It later said that it had carried out reasonable due diligence and it didnt think  its actions 
could be seen as responsible for the extra  costs Mr B had incurred. It also queried the level 
of compensation  suggested by our investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have some sympathy with the arguments  put forward  by Close Brothers  I find myself 
in agreement with the investigator. I have  listened  to Mr Bs initial  call, and I note he 
explained fully what his problem was, the injury he had suffered and the operation  which he 
had undergone. The call handler was sensitive and helpful, but decided  to pass  the matter  
over to another team. 
In subsequent correspondence Close Brothers has implied that had the system allowed, it 
could have changed the next due date at the time of the call. However,  as this fell a few days  
after the call it wasnt able to do so. That was unfortunate.
However, it called  him the following day and he agreed to call back. He called the insurer  
and it is not clear, but it would appear that he thought he was returning the call. I cannot say 
for certain  as the insurer doesnt have  a recording of that call. However,  its brief notes  
suggest that Mr B may have confused the two businesses.
The situation  then seems to be that Close Brothers was aware of the problem Mr B faced, 
but as it didnt hear back from him it reverted to its normal processes and ended  the 
agreement this terminating his insurance  cover which in turn prevented him driving his car. 
As such I think  it is reasonable to conclude it was Close Brothers which  caused the extra 
costs incurred by Mr B.
While I can see that Close Brothers feels that two phone calls were  sufficient in dealing Mr B 
and his problems,  I think it should have made more effort  to contact him and to establish his 
position and endeavour  to assist him. The effect  of its decision to end the agreement was 
dramatic and prevented Mr B from using  his car. 
Therefore, I have concluded  that I should  uphold his complaint. As such  I consider it 
reasonable for Close Brothers to refund  his costs and pay him compensation of £300  for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Ref: DRN26120533my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers  Limited to pay Mr 
B £2,561.17  to cover the costs he incurred and pay £300 compensation for the trouble it 
caused him. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612053