K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out at some  point between 1998 and 
2000. The policy was either added to Mr Bs credit card account when he applied  for the 
card in 1998 or at some point after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. There isnt much information  available from the 
sale of the PPI, but thats understandable given  the credit card it was linked to was closed 
more than 15 years ago  and the sale was some  years  before that. So Ive reached this 
decision on the information that is available  and also what  we know about how Lloyds sold 
this type of policy between 1998  and 2000.
The PPI could have  been sold in a meeting,  by post or on the phone.  From the many 
complaints weve  looked  at and the evidence weve seen, Lloyds were making customers 
aware that PPI was optional. I cant see any reason why Mr B would have been treated 
differently, so I think he chose to take the PPI  although I can understand why he can no 
longer remember this.
I dont know whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B or not, but if it did it doesnt  look 
as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr B would have  made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  including what  hes said about getting his card in 
the post and not seeing  anything  about the PPI. But Im afraid that hasnt changed my 
decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN20749272Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2074927