K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mrs S and Mr S took out in 2007 with Firstplus 
Financial Group Plc. Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy  that when they came to repay the loan 
there was £11,000  in interest they werent  aware of. They also say they werent  sent 
statements when they asked for them.
background
Mrs S and Mr S took out this secured loan in November  2007. They  originally borrowed 
£26,000 plus just over £6,000 for PPI. The loan was due to be repaid over a ten-year  term.
Unfortunately Mrs S and Mr S got into financial difficulties and were  in arrears for most  of the 
loan term. At the same time it appears  they were also struggling with their main mortgage  
payments as the Firstplus contact notes shows that lender had ongoing  legal action on the 
main mortgage account going back many years.
In July 2011 the account was defaulted. At that time Firstplus  wrote to Mrs S and Mr S to say 
there was an outstanding  balance of just under £38,000, but there would be an interest 
rebate if the loan was repaid at that time so just under £30,000 would be due.
At that time Firstplus suppressed the interest  on the account. The normal  loan account 
remained interest-bearing, but instead of the interest being added  to that balance (thus 
becoming interest-bearing itself)  the interest due each  month  on the outstanding debt was 
debited from a separate account which wasnt interest-bearing. This had the effect of 
removing the compounding effect  of interest  on interest.
In November 2011 Firstplus upheld a complaint  about the PPI policy. To put things  right it 
made credits totalling about £8,000 to the mortgage  account, and paid an additional £370 by 
cheque to Mrs S and Mr S. The letters issued at that time shows this reduced  the normal 
loan balance  from about £28,000  to about £20,000,  and reduced the monthly  payment due 
going forward.
Its not completely  clear  what  happened from then, but it seems Mrs S and Mr S made a 
payment to the loan account  in October  2011  (after having missed  more payments than they 
made that year) and then paid nothing further  to the loan for the remainder  of the term.
In August  2018  they sold the house due to their divorce and when the redemption statement 
was produced they say that was the first they knew of the separate  account for the interest.
Our case-handler didnt uphold  the complaint. As Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs S and Mr S had been struggling to pay their loan for some time.  One particular thing 
Firstplus did to help Mrs S and Mr S was to stop adding  interest  onto the loan account as 
otherwise theyd be paying interest  on interest  - known as compound  interest - if they didnt  
keep up their payments.  Instead Firstplus carried on calculating  the interest  in the 
Ref: DRN27089992background, as it was still due, but as it wasnt applied  to the account it didnt attract  interest 
itself. This is known as simple interest. This also meant any payments Mrs S and Mr S may 
make going  forward  would go towards reducing  their arrears. 
Having considered everything  Im not persuaded the decision to suppress interest was 
unreasonable. Ultimately,  it meant Mrs S and Mr S were charged  less interest than they 
would have been otherwise. The issue is they say Firstplus didnt tell them what it had done. 
When Mrs S and Mr S found  out the true position  they were  understandably upset as they 
say they were relying on that extra money  from the house sale for their divorce  settlement.
I think its something of an over-simplification just to say that because suppression removed 
the compounding  effect, Mrs S and Mr S benefitted from it. Not knowing about the interest 
suppression denied them information about how much they really owed, so I have to 
consider if it also denied them the opportunity to do something they werent  already  doing to 
tackle the debt.  As it happens, in Mrs S and Mr Ss particular case, Im not sure their wider 
financial circumstances would have  allowed  them to make payments to cover  that additional  
amount. So in that context, I think its probably  fair to conclude that Mrs S and Mr S werent 
denied opportunities to act differently because of any alleged  failure in Firstplus provision of 
information.
I do think the effect of Firstplus failing to tell Mrs S and Mr S about  the suppression of 
interest is limited to the upset they say they felt when they found out the true position. Ive 
carefully considered  if any payment of compensation is warranted  for this and Im not 
persuaded it is. I say this because Mrs S and Mr S knew the balance of their loan was 
around £20,000 in 2011 when the PPI refund was processed.  We know  they knew  this 
because it was set out in the letters that were  sent to them  dealing  with their PPI complaint. 
And as they didnt  make any more payments to the loan account from then I would expect 
them to have realised  this would lead to the loan balance increasing month-on-month. An 
increase of about £11,000 between November 2011 and August 2018 doesnt  seem an 
unreasonable expectation.
When someone has struggled financially for as long as Mrs S and Mr S did, I can 
understand how upsetting  it could be to be told your debt is so much  more than you
thought. But that doesnt mean Firstplus  did anything wrong, or that it needs to pay any 
compensation for Mrs S and Mr Ss disappointment.
Finally, Mrs S and Mr S have said they asked repeatedly  for statements but they were  never 
sent. Ive reviewed the contact notes very carefully  and I can only see one reference to 
potentially sending them  a statement. It would  be unusual  that numerous  different call 
handlers would have all neglected to both send the statement(s) requested  and put call 
notes on the account. 
The only mention of a statement is in April 2013  where a note says Mrs S and Mr S - maybe 
via a third party - had said a payment  of £3,000  had been made to the account in November 
and requested a statement showing the payment  received. The note says that the statement 
couldnt be sent as Firstplus hadnt  received the payment.  It said if Mrs S and Mr S were  
claiming a payment was made  in November 2012 then they needed to provide proof  of the 
payment so Firstplus  could try to trace the funds. It seems nothing  further  then happened.
In any event, even  if Mrs S and Mr S had received statements Im satisfied the outcome 
would have remained the same for the reason Ive explained above; Im not sure their wider 
financial circumstances would have  allowed  them to make payments to cover  that additional  
Ref: DRN27089993amount. All that would have happened is that the debt would have increased as Firstplus 
says it would have  charged them for any statements issued.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2708999