K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to administer his SIPP correctly and 
as a result, he has suffered a financial  loss.
BackgroundMr S holds a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP)  with Barclays.  Amongst other 
investments within  his SIPP, he held Company A shares.
Company A group shares were de-listing and for a limited period, it was possible  for 
shareholders to claim shares on a 1:1 basis in Company  B. Mr Ss wife also held Company 
A group shares within a general investment account.  Barclays claimed the shares for his 
wife and she received  a share certificate.
When Mr S didnt  receive a share certificate,  he contacted Barclays  to find out why. Barclays 
said they couldnt exercise the option to claim the shares within Mr Ss SIPP, as they dont 
allow unquoted shares within their SIPP  contracts.  They also said if they were to certificate  
the shares to Mr S this would be treated as a withdrawal and an unauthorised  payment by 
HMRC and so they were  unable to assist Mr S in this matter. They apologised for the upset  
this caused Mr S and made a £50 payment as a gesture of goodwill. They  also explained  Mr 
S could  transfer  his SIPP to another provider.
Mr S contacted Company B directly. They wrote to Mr S to confirm  they suspected  the 
shares couldnt be held directly  in his SIPP, as they were unquoted.  They  explained they 
were unable to comment  on another providers terms and conditions  but if Mr Ss SIPP 
provider could provide evidence he held Company  A group shares, they would consider his 
claim.Mr S remained dissatisfied with the way Barclays had handled the administration  of his SIPP  
and asked this service to look into matters  for him.
Our investigator asked  Barclays to provide  evidence  of Mr Ss shareholding in Worthington 
Group, which they did. She then approached Company B on Mr Ss behalf to see if they 
could issue the share  certificates. Unfortunately, Company B explained the offer of shares 
was a limited gift provided by Guildford Street Capital but the deadline had now passed  and 
they were unable to issue  any further  certificates.
Our investigator looked carefully at the actions taken by Barclays and the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss SIPP. She thought Barclays had acted within  the terms and conditions 
and whilst she appreciated this was frustrating  for Mr S, she didnt feel they had acted 
unfairly and as they had already offered  a goodwill gesture of £50 she didnt ask them to do 
anything further.
Mr S was disappointed with this decision  and asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have looked at all the information from 
both parties afresh.  Having done  so Ive reached  the same conclusion  as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN21651112I can appreciate this must be very frustrating  for Mr S, especially as in his case  his wife also 
owned shares in the Company A group and Barclays were able to claim the shares in the 
offer on her behalf  and not for Mr S. The key difference in why Barclays were able to take 
action for one and not the other lies in the investment  in which  they were held.
Mr S holds his Company  A group shares within his SIPP. Like most pension  plans, there  are 
tax advantages in contributing to a SIPP  and in the investments that are made. There are 
numerous rules and regulations that apply  to SIPPs. Some  SIPP providers permit unquoted 
stock in their in the SIPP. Barclays dont accept unquoted shares. This is clearly detailed  in 
the Key Features  of the SIPP.  This means  it cant claim the shares on his behalf.  If they had 
done so and then given  them to Mr S, this may have been  treated as an unauthorised 
withdrawal under the current HMRC regulations. That could have given rise to an 
unauthorised tax charge for both Mr S and the scheme administrator.
The Company B shares were offered as a gift to customers holding Company A group 
shares for a limited period. Company  B said this period ended in February  2018.  They  
explained following  an intervention by the regulator,  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
they were being  prevented from issuing any further share certificates.  They were also unable 
to say if they would  be able to issue share  certificates in the future.
Barclays have, at Mr Ss request, provided evidence of Mr Ss SIPP shareholding of 
Company A shares to Company B and have said they would consider a claim if they are able 
to reissue in the future.   Mr S still holds the delisted Company A group shares within  his 
SIPP. Its important to explain here that, as outlined in the SIPP terms and conditions, Mr S 
doesnt own the shares in the Company A Group.  The SIPP  trustee legally owns these. 
What Mr S is entitled to is the future benefits  of the SIPP which are payable under the rules  
of the SIPP  and HMRC  rules. 
Mr Ss SIPP  was taken out on an execution only basis. The onus is on Mr S to explore the 
options open to him on how these investments can be either sold or transferred.  Barclays  
administer his SIPP but they dont  act in any advisory capacity. The terms and the conditions  
of the SIPP  explain  the investments the SIPP  can and cant invest in. So Barclays didnt 
have a responsibility to inform Mr S about  the Company B share offer and as Ive already 
explained it wasnt able to claim the shares on his behalf. From what Ive seen the window to 
claim the shares was very limited and then closed by the FCA so even if Mr S had started 
the transfer process, on balance,  I dont think he would have completed it in time to secure 
the shares.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration but the remit of my role is to look to see if Barclays have 
acted unfairly. From  what Ive seen  they have acted  within the terms and conditions of the 
SIPP. I appreciate Mr S is disappointed  he  hasnt been able to take advantage of the offer 
of Whetstone shares, but I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly in the administration of his 
SIPP account and so Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Ref: DRN21651113Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2165111