K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
background
In October  2018 Mr A acquired  a two year old car which had done 28,000  miles.  He paid a 
deposit of £1,500 and the balance was funded  by a hire purchase  agreement with VFS.  He 
encountered a number of problems such as faulty  rear brakes, chipped windscreen, stone 
chips on the bonnet and the gear box jerking when the car was cold.
VFS says the faults were  repaired  and the cost met by the dealer, but Mr A says that a 
windscreen fitted to the car wasnt  an authentic manufacturers windscreen. He said that 
under the agreement only genuine  parts were to be used on the car. He said he had entered  
into an agreement to buy a VW Das WeltAuto  approved car which had been subjected to a 
142 point check and he considered that numerous  faults hadnt been  picked  up. He also said 
that the car hadnt come with the same  make of tyres as would have been fitted when new. 
He added that the check list showed the windscreen required repair, but this hadnt been 
done prior to sale.
VFS rejected Mr As complaint as it believed the car was of satisfactory  quality and the faults 
he had identified had been fixed.  Mr A didnt agree and he brought his complaint to this 
service. It was considered  by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld.
He noted that most of the faults identified by Mr A had been rectified but there  was now a 
clicking noise under heavy acceleration. The adjudicator referred to VWs website which  
states:
Volkswagen trained technicians carry out a thorough  workshop and test drive inspection  of 
every used car before it can become a Das WeltAuto  used car. Any faults identified are fixed  
using Volkswagen Genuine Parts'. Only then can a used car become  part of the Das 
WeltAuto used car programme.
The windscreen fitted to Mr As car wasnt a genuine  VW part and that meant  the car had 
been misrepresented. This had been confirmed in an email from VW which showed that a 
non-genuine part had been fitted. He recommended VFS: 
take back Mr As car at no cost to him
cancel his credit agreement- with no further  liability
refund  his advance  payment of £1,500 along with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
pay Mr A £100 in recognition of the inconvenience this matter  has caused him
Mr A notified  us that he had paid off the hire purchase sum in January 2019. The adjudicator  
said that VFS should refund him all the payments he has made less the monthly  rental sum 
for each  month he has had the car.
Mr A didnt agree and said this wouldnt put him back in the position he would have been had 
he not bought the car. He said he would lose £1,794.48. He also said he had taken  four 
days leave to try and get the problems resolved and he hadnt  always  been able to drive the 
Ref: DRN26864852car. He said the contract allowed VFS to charge him 6.98 pence  per mile for any excess 
mileage and he should pay for the miles he had done at this rate.
VFS made no comment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I consider it reasonable of there to be minor defects on a car of this age and mileage  and 
being subjected  to a 142 point check doesnt mean the car will be as new. The faults Mr A 
identified which were  the subject of his complaint to VFS have been rectified and normally  I 
wouldnt recommend  that his complaint  be upheld. However, there is the issue of the non-
genuine windscreen.
This was noted as needing repair on the check list, but this wasnt carried out prior to sale. It 
was picked up by Mr A and he asked  that it be repaired. The garage  used  a non-genuine 
part and as the car had been sold as Das WeltAuto approved  which means it should only 
have VW approved  parts fitted. While I appreciate  VFSs  view that the part fitted  was as 
good as a genuine one, it isnt as advertised  or as offered by the seller.  It meant  there has 
been misrepresentation. 
I have considered directing VFS to replace the windscreen with a VW genuine one. Mr A 
doesnt consider  that to be the right outcome and looking at this in the round I think it better if 
he is allowed to reject the car. 
I appreciate Mr A thinks the redress proposed  by the adjudicator  isnt fair, but I dont agree. 
He has had use of the car and it is right that he pay for that use. If he hadnt bought that car 
Ref: DRN26864853it is reasonable to presume he would have bought another  and so he would have incurred 
the cost of that. 
As for the suggestion that a mileage rate be used I believe the appropriate  rate would be the 
standard one of 45 pence per mile rather than the excess charge rate which is chargeable 
on top of the monthly payments. Mr A has done  somewhere in the region of 7,000  miles and 
if I were to take his suggestion that he pays for each mile he has driven the charge would be 
£3,150.
However, I have decided that it is fairer to him and to VFS if we adopt  that standard 
approach as has been set out by the adjudicator. I also consider the level of compensation 
for distress is reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this case and I direct Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited to:
Take back the car at no cost to Mr A and no further liability.
Refund Mr As deposit and all payments he has made towards the agreement along 
with 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
The interest should be calculated on the net sum after deducting the monthly  rentals 
as below. 
VFS should deduct £224.56 per calendar month,  which  reflects Mr As monthly  
rentals, for the time the car is in his possession.
Pay Mr A £100 in recognition of the distress this matter has caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2686485