K820x#14complaint
Mr M was involved in an accident. He claimed on his private medical  insurance  policy  and 
AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited (AXA) paid out for his treatment. Mr M then pursued a 
personal injury claim. AXA wrote  to Mr Ms solicitors to let them  know  theyd  like to recover  
their costs as part of the proceedings.  
Mr M complains he has lost out financially because AXA recovered  its full outlay as part of 
the settlement  of his legal claim, arising  from an injury he sustained in 2012.  He says hes 
entitled to a refund. 
Mr M also complains  he has lost out financially because of delays caused by AXA when it 
looked into a previous  complaint, and that recovery from his injury was also delayed.
background
The full background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision.  Ive attached a 
copy of my provisional decision and it forms part of this, my final decision.  
Mr Ms concerns are based around  the following complaint points:
the settlement complaint - relating  to AXA recovering its costs  as part of 
Mr Ms personal injury claim
the subrogation issue  that AXA has benefitted by recovering its full outlay whilst 
Mr M has failed  to recover his uninsured losses
the 2012 issues relating to delays  in AXA approving Mr Ms treatment   
In my provisional decision I explained  why I considered it was fair and reasonable for AXA to 
have recovered  its costs. This included consideration of a point more recently raised by 
Mr M, being that the proper application of the principle of subrogation meant he was entitled 
to the full return of his outlay. This would  be for the purpose of covering his uninsured losses  
or the other things hed claimed for under his cover  for which AXA wouldnt compensate him. 
I also explained that I would not be looking into the issues concerning the claim hed made in 
2012 as it was something that wed already considered. 
AXA didnt havent didnt have anything else to add by way of response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr M responded with further comments.  In summary he said:
That he disagreed  with my finding that it was reasonable that, having provided details of 
its outlay plus interest  to Mr Ms solicitors,  AXA had done enough to individually  identify  
the sum it was claiming. It followed that our investigator was right to identify that AXAs 
outlay hadnt been individually identified in the global  settlement.
That in Mr Ms view AXA was required to accept  a lower figure in proportion to the global 
settlement that Mr M had accepted. And that it followed that it was unfair for AXA to be 
able to recover disproportionately more. 
Ref: DRN28303822That I should have  regard to the principle that health insurers are known to be amenable 
to accepting a reduced  payment  in cases where a claimant has not been  100% 
successful. 
Mr M also pointed  out that AXA had quoted from the wrong  policy when responding to 
his complaint, referring to AXAs right to approval a reduced  recovery  of its fees. He said 
this suggests  that AXA was not acting in line with standard industry  practice and that a 
proportional reduction does not in fact require its prior approval  based on the relevant 
policy wording
That it is Mr Ms understanding that the principle of subrogation doesnt entitle AXA to 
obtain a full recovery to Mr Ms detriment.  It is Mr Ms view that AXA has benefitted  from 
a claim where the principle of subrogation would normally  mean that money received 
from a claim would  be dealt  with in a different way. 
That it follows that the items set out in the schedule of loss which werent  covered by the 
insurance should be considered as uninsured losses. 
With regard to the claim he made in 2012, AXA should compensate  Mr M for the losses 
he says were caused by AXA - as opposed  to the third party  he brought  legal 
proceedings against. This would be losses for pain and suffering and loss of 
employment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to thank Mr M for taking the trouble to provide me with detailed  comments 
arising from my provisional decision. I have considered these  all very carefully.  
the settlement  complaint
Mr M disagrees with my finding that AXA was entitled to recover the full amount of outlay for 
Mr Ms medical costs, with interest.  He says that providing details of these  to Mr Ms solicitor  
doesnt amount  to them being properly identified in the way that, using Mr Ms example, his 
claim for general damages  (pain  and suffering) was individually set out in his schedule of 
loss. 
I think its relevant that when our Investigator reached his initial  view - that AXAs  outlay 
hadnt been individually identified  this was before hed seen evidence  that AXAs  outlay 
had been included in the schedule of loss as an item of damage that formed  part of his 
claim. Ive seen that Mr M verified  and approved  its inclusion, having signed the schedule.  
So by this point  it seems to me that Mr M was aware  of the sum being claimed  by AXA and 
had not raised  an issued  its inclusion.  Obviously,  I have  no way of knowing if there was any 
discussion between Mr M and his solicitor on this issue. But I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that the amount  of outlay was challenged. So its reasonable to conclude  that Mr M 
was aware that AXAs  outlay  would  form part of his claim. On that basis, I consider Mr M 
ought to have been aware that as an item of special damage it would need to be settled in 
full as part of a settlement. And its something he could have raised at the time before 
agreeing to settle his claim if he wasnt sure. The only exception would be if Mr M or his 
Ref: DRN28303823solicitor had asked  AXA if they were  prepared to accept a lower sum as part of the 
settlement. I cant see that that happened. 
Mr M has said that he is not challenging the amount of the outlay that was recovered  by 
AXA, but rather that fact that it was disproportionately repaid. But it seems to me that in the 
absence of any express agreement to the contrary, it was to be expected that this sum 
would be repaid in full to AXA as part of any settlement. Whether AXA would have been 
prepared to accept  a lower sum is hypothetical  because from what Ive seen they were  not 
asked that question. 
Mr M has quoted me authority for the suggestion  that in some instances insurers will be 
willing to accept a reduced payment where a claimant has not been  100% successful in his 
action. But I think that presupposes  the possibility that there has been some  dialogue 
between Mr M, his legal  representative and AXA about this issue.  I can also appreciate that 
this scenario could  arise  where there is a dispute  about the amount of outlay claimed by 
AXA. In Mr Ms claim, however, this doesnt appear  to have happened  or if a query was 
raised about the outlay, it was answered in satisfactory way.
 
Finally, whilst Ive noted Mr Ms comments about  AXA having initially  quoted  from the wrong 
policy document, I dont  think  this affects  my provisional  decision  given  that it is now clear 
that details of AXAs outlay had been  provided to Mr Ms solicitors and so formed part of the 
agreed settlement  sum. 
subrogation issue
Mr M has clarified that the inclusion of this issue arose from his correspondence with our 
investigator rather than with AXA. 
Mr M has also made it clear that he considers  AXA to have acted contrary to the accepted 
law on subrogation  in that it effectively exercised a greater right of recovery  being a full 
recovery of its outlay   at the expense of Mr Ms recovery. 
Mr M has helpfully clarified  that he sees this issue as relating to uninsured losses.  He 
explains such losses as being  items  on his schedule  of loss for which he didnt have the 
benefit of insurance  cover, be it with AXA or elsewhere. 
Mr M remains of the view that these sums should  be taken into account when looking at the 
full settlement and including the sum recovered that represents AXAs outlay.
Unfortunately, I dont consider that the points made by Mr M on this issue take matters 
further. Mr M agreed a settlement of his claim that meant he didnt receive the full amount of 
hed claimed for compensation for his injuries and the losses  that he incurred as a result of 
those injuries. AXAs  full outlay was included  in Mr Ms schedule of loss and this was the 
sum recovered as part of the settlement that he agreed with his solicitors. I dont think AXA 
should be expected to accept a lower payment so that Mr M can be compensated for the 
sums set out in his schedule of loss which did not form part of his settlement. In short,  I dont 
think its reasonable to expect AXA to have to accept a lower sum so that Mr M can make up 
the difference between the settlement and the sums hed claimed as part of his schedule  of 
loss. 
the 2012 issues
Ref: DRN28303824Mr M has confirmed  to us that this issue was originally resolved  with AXA as a result  of his 
own efforts  rather than the involvement  of this service. These are losses  that Mr M says are 
a result of AXAs actions and therefore  arent  attributable to or part of his legal claim. AXA 
confirmed that they refused to pay these  sums  in August 2012. Mr M says that that the delay 
he experienced in receiving care at least in part led his subsequently losing his job due to ill 
health. Mr M maintains  that had AXA intervened earlier and provided the necessary 
treatment his condition  would have resolved sooner. He also suggests that he would not 
have lost out in his earnings. 
Unfortunately, given that Mr M has already brought his complaint to us regarding his original 
medical claim, this isnt something Im able to look into further. The key issue  to keep  in mind 
is that Mr M has already  made his complaint about the claim he made to AXA, when we 
looked into it. 
I appreciate that Mr M is complaining to us about  the consequences of that delay. But these 
issues do not relate to the policy cover which is the only area that we as a service can be 
involved with and provide assistance.  
my final decision
It follows that I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint as I dont consider that AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited has done  anything wrong. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Michael Goldberg 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28303825COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
Complaint
Mr M was involved in an accident. He claimed on his private medical  insurance  policy and AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited (AXA) paid out for his treatment. Mr M then pursued a personal  injury claim. AXA 
wrote to Mr Ms solicitors to let them know theyd like to recover their costs as part of the proceedings.  
Mr M complains he has lost out financially  because AXA recovered  its full outlay as part of the 
settlement of his legal  claim, arising from an injury he sustained in 2012.  He says hes entitled to a 
refund. 
Mr M also complains  he has lost out financially  because of delays caused by AXA when it looked into 
a previous complaint,  and that recovery from his injury was also delayed.
Background
For the purposes of my decision I will refer to Mr Ms concerns as two separate complaint points: 
the settlement complaint  relating to AXA recovering its costs  as part of 
Mr Ms personal injury  claim
the 2012  issues relating to delays in AXA approving Mr Ms treatment  
Background to the settlement complaint
Mr M settled his legal claim for personal  injuries  against a third party in 2015. Mr Ms solicitors paid 
AXA the sum of £6,832.40 in full settlement of its costs in November 2015.  
AXA told Mr M that they were entitled to recover their outlay for his medical costs. AXA referred  to the 
policy wording to support this. The relevant part of the policy wording reads: 
if your claim is repaid as a global settlement (where our outlay is not individually identified), you must 
repay our outlay in the same  proportion as the global  settlement bears to your total claim for damages 
against the third party
Our investigator initially thought  that if, as a result  of the global  settlement of Mr Ms legal claim AXA 
recovered its full outlay rather  than a sum proportionate to the reduction from Mr Ms total claim, it was 
right that AXA should refund  the difference to Mr M with interest. 
The investigator subsequently requested confirmation of the total claim made against the third party, 
in order to check  whether  it included AXAs outlay. Mr M sent him a copy of the schedule of special  
damages relied upon in Mr Ms legal  claim which does specify  AXAs  outlay. 
The investigator also asked  Mr M to give AXA evidence  that would support the amount he was 
seeking in his legal claim. This was so that AXA would then be able to work out the proportion of its 
outlay against the total settlement that was agreed. He also said Mr M should  allow AXA to contact 
his solicitor in case AXA requires further information  about the settlement but Mr M hasnt agreed to 
this.
 
AXA disagreed with our investigators view. AXA referred back to the wording our investigator had 
relied on, pointing out it only provided  for a proportionate refund in the event  of a global  settlement 
where our outlay is not individually identified. However,  in this case AXA considered that, having  
provided full details  of its outlay plus interest, the full sum was individually  identified.  To support this, 
AXA said it had given Mr Ms solicitor full details  of its outlay,  including interest. It also said it was 
open to Mr Ms solicitor to challenge the amount before they included it in the legal claim, but they 
hadnt done so. 
Ref: DRN28303826AXA also said they had seen a letter to Mr M from his solicitor asking him to sign his schedule  of 
special damages. So AXA had worked  on the assumption that the sum they were  seeking  had been 
included in the schedule (it was) and that Mr M had signed the schedule  as requested. 
AXA told us they had also seen a letter to Mr M from his solicitor that talked about reaching  a possible 
global settlement of his legal claim. Although AXA didnt know the final settlement  sum in the legal 
claim, after it was agreed Mr Ms solicitor  sent AXA a cheque for the full amount theyd claimed for.
 
AXA refunded Mr M some of his premiums following  the recovery  of its outlay.  But Mr M says he has 
been adversely affected by having to pay increased insurance premiums in the future because of the 
reduction in his no claims discount arising from the claim he made  to AXA. 
More recently, Mr M raised a new point with AXA. He considers that AXA hasnt followed the principle 
of subrogation that applies to insurance  claims.  He says that if the principle of subrogation  was 
applied incorrectly AXA should have allowed  him to use the return of its outlay to cover his own 
uninsured losses or other  things he claimed  for under his cover for which it wouldnt compensate him.
AXA says that given that Mr M didnt  suffer  an insured loss over and above the cover available  under  
his private medical insurance policy, AXA is still entitled to recover the full amount  it spent in outlay for 
his medical expenses.  It also says that this principle still applies where  theres  been a global 
settlement, as was the case here 
Our investigator didnt consider this point because Mr M had raised it with AXA and awaited their 
response. AXA has responded  to say the issue ought  to be included with Mr Ms current  complaint  
although Mr M says this isnt his understanding from his previous communications with AXA.
Background to the 2012 issues
In 2012 Mr M complained to us about AXAs refusal to look at his claim. Mr M now tells us that that 
AXAs delays in relation to his claim had lengthened  his recovery and made  his long-term  prognosis 
worse. He also says it necessitated him having further treatment and had an impact on his work 
circumstances, leading to him being  unable to work.
 
Unfortunately, our file for that complaint has now been deleted given the passage  of time.   
From what Ive seen it appears that, following our involvement at the time,  the relevant  cover was 
reinstated. Our investigator hasnt been able to find any details about  this earlier claim. But hes seen 
that AXA paid a doctors  invoice  on an ex gratia  basis,  provided information  about  next steps and 
confirmed that normal policy terms would  apply  going forward.  
Our investigator didnt think AXAs approach at the time had been unreasonable. And given that Mr M 
had self-funded his treatment, which AXA had then reimbursed, and hadnt raised  any further issues, 
our investigator also didnt  think there was anything else we needed  to do. 
AXA says we shouldnt be looking at these  issues  as they were  dealt with in complaint  previously 
made to us in 2012. 
As Mr M didnt agree with all our investigators findings, I now need to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont intend to repeat all the evidence here as its well known  to the 
parties.
Ill set out my findings  on each  complaint separately:
Ref: DRN28303827 
The settlement complaint
Ive looked at the relevant AXA policy  wording. Ive seen that AXA initially sent us wording  from a 
different policy. I agree this wouldnt  be the correct  wording to rely on for the policy  taken  out by Mr M. 
The relevant policy wording  says:
if your claim is repaid as a global settlement (where our outlay is not individually
identified), you must repay our outlay in the same proportion as the global settlement bears
to your total claim for damages  against the third party.
When our investigator  first looked into this complaint  he hadnt  been provided  with evidence to show 
that AXAs  outlay had been identified. Since then weve been  given details of AXAs  outlay, showing 
how the sum of £6,832.40  was calculated. Ive also seen that this figure  was provided to Mr Ms 
solicitor by AXA, requesting  that it be included in his claim against a third party,  together with a 
breakdown. Ive also seen a copy of the full schedule of special damages that Mr Ms solicitor put 
forward as part of his personal  injury  claim  although I appreciate that this isnt a document  that 
would have been given  to AXA due to confidentiality issues. I also note that Mr M signed  a copy  of the 
schedule of special damages in order to verify that he agreed to the sums  claimed, including AXAs 
outlay, being included in his claim. 
From what Ive seen, Mr Ms solicitors didnt raise any issues about  the outlay they wished to claim 
from AXA when it was presented. And I am not aware   nor would  I expect to have access  to details  
of what,  if any discussions  or negotiations took place  between  Mr Ms solicitor and the third partys 
representatives. 
Ive also seen  the letter  from Mr Ms solicitor setting out recommendations about settling his legal 
claim. This letter put forward a figure for settlement that would be less than the total losses as 
pleaded but reflecting recommendations made by Mr Ms barrister about  the settlement.  
A settlement was later reached, following which  Mr Ms solicitors paid AXA the sum it had claimed for 
Mr Ms previous treatment, including  a sum for interest. 
All of this leads me to conclude that the amount AXA sought  to recover as part of the legal  claim was 
individually identified as part of the proceedings. 
It follows that in respect of this part of the claim,  Im satisfied that Mr M, having succeeded in settling 
his claim, was required  to pay back the full outlay of the medical costs  and interest spent by AXA in 
dealing with Ms treatment  and rehabilitation  following his injury. I agree with AXA that, having 
identified its outlay, they were entitled to recover the whole sum with interest. The policy wording did 
not require AXA to accept  a lower figure in settlement of its outlay because  Mr M accepted a sum that 
may have been lower  than his total claim
 
On the question  of interest that AXA recovered on its claim, I agree with our investigator that although  
the policy  wording doesnt specifically deal with the question  of interest, that doesnt exclude the right 
for AXA to recover  interest at the court rate (8% per annum) as part of the claim  for recovery of its 
outlay. This is because  interest  would be claimed  in law as part of the legal claim  and its therefore an 
element of recovery that I would have expected AXA to include to be added  to its outlay.  
Ive seen that Mr M feels he lost out and that AXA benefitted because he says interest wasnt included  
as part of his own settlement. Without knowing the full details of the settlement I cant comment as to 
whether or not interest was in fact included.  But I think thats a matter between Mr M and his solicitor,  
rather than Mr M and AXA. So it doesnt change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN28303828In June 2016  AXA refunded Mr M some  premiums  due to his no claims discount being re-adjusted  
following the settlement. Mr M says that he is still out of pocket  because  of having to pay a higher 
premium with his new insurer. However,  I dont consider that AXA should be required to do anything 
more. His premiums have been adjusted to allow  for AXA having  recovered its outlay. I appreciate  
that having  to declare  a previous medical condition  as a result of an accident may have had some  
effect on the level of no claims discount  and premiums with his new insurer. But if Mr M thinks that his 
new insurer hasnt applied the no claims discount fairly then thats not something AXA has done 
wrong. I can see that AXA refunded Mr Ms no claims  discount.  So I dont think theres  anything  
further it needs to do
In short, Mr M made a claim on the policy and benefited  from his cover by having his medical 
expenses paid for at the time. AXA is entitled  to recover the costs in line with the policy  terms.  Thats 
also standard industry practice and so I dont  think AXA is treating Mr M unfairly by taking this 
approach.  
Given that I am setting out my findings  by way of a provisional decision, I think it is appropriate that I 
also deal here with Mr Ms complaint concerning  the application of AXAs right of subrogation  in his 
claim as I think  its in all parties  interests to do so. 
AXA agreed  to indemnify  Mr M for his medical  expenses in accordance with the terms of the policy 
cover, subject to any applicable excess. Mr M rightly ensured  that AXAs outlay formed  part of his 
legal claim. Mr Ms solicitor subsequently arranged  for that outlay to be returned to AXA in full. Also, I 
havent been  provided with evidence on Mr Ms behalf to suggest that he might have uninsured  losses 
under the policy cover. 
From all that Ive seen, it doesnt look as if Mr M suffered a shortfall  because  of the limits  of the cover. 
And I dont consider that its correct to say that he has sustained uninsured losses because he has 
accepted a global settlement. 
To summarise AXA was entitled to recover  its outlay on the basis that Mr M did not have any 
uninsured losses. I therefore  do not currently intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint on this issue. 
It follows that I dont currently intend  to uphold  this part of his complaint.
The 2012 issues
Mr M has told us that delays by AXA in responding  to his claim following  his injury had a knock-on 
effect on his health and work circumstances. The delay  was because of a dispute over whether or not 
AXA should agree to cover his claim.  It appears that AXA eventually agreed to reinstate cover as a 
result of Mr M making a complaint to us. I also see that Mr M raised  a complaint about medical  
treatment hed paid for, which AXA refunded  on an ex-gratia  basis. AXA also agreed to continue  
cover on the same terms.
Mr M also feels that he has lost out because he wasnt compensated for other items of loss that he 
didnt claim  for. He also remains  of the view that issues relating to delay had a negative impact on his 
treatment. 
Ref: DRN28303829Whilst I would like to assure Mr M that I have fully considered all the points he has made  in 
connection with this aspect  of his complaint, this isnt something  that I consider  would be appropriate 
for this service to revisit as Im satisfied it has already been looked at by our service. So my current  
intention is that I wont be looking into this aspect of the complaint further. 
My provisional decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint or to make any award  against AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited.
Mr M should let me know by 17 October 2019 if theres any other information hed like me to consider 
before I make my final decision. 
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2830382