K820x#14complaint
Miss P, a sole trader  trading as C, complains  that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited 
wont accept her claim under her tattoo insurance policy and about its service. 
The policy is in Cs name. From the information Miss P has provided  C is a micro-enterprise 
under our rules and is eligible  to complain to this service. My references to Miss P include C.
My references to Catlin include its agents.
background
Miss P made a claim on her tattoo  insurance policy when she dropped a laser machine used 
for tattoo removal treatments. She said the machine no longer worked as it did before she 
dropped it. 
Catlin declined the claim. Three different engineers reported on the cause  of the damage. 
Miss P instructed the engineer who provided the first report,  the second was by Catlins  
contracted engineer and the third was by an independent engineer who Miss P chose from 
three alternatives given  by Catlin. Catlin said that overall the reports  showed  the fault with 
the machine was due to poor manufacturing rather than the machine being dropped, which 
the policy didnt  cover. 
Miss P complained to us. She wants Catlin to accept the claim. She also said it took Catlin  
much too long to decide the claim and her business suffered as a result.  She added that the 
loss adjuster was very difficult to deal with.
Our first investigator thought that based on the experts reports Catlins had fairly declined 
the claim.
Miss P disagreed and raised various points she wanted us to consider. Her first set of points 
were:
The third report made  comments about the machine being made in a named country 
and therefore  not of good quality. But many machines  used parts from that country
The reports said the machines output  was fluctuating.  She couldnt find evidence 
that fluctuating  output is typical of machines from that country. The third report was 
the only one to mention her machine was rated at 220v (voltage) whereas UK mains  
electricity is 240v  +/-10% 
The third engineer who reported  told her it didnt deal with machines made by her 
machines manufacturer.  But its report said it had looked at another machine made 
by the same manufacturer with the same problem as her machine. She asked if the 
other machine  the engineer looked  at from the same manufacturer was also rated at 
220v and whether  that machine had also been  dropped
She has photographic  evidence of the machine working fine on clients  before it was 
dropped
Catlins loss adjuster acknowledged  there was damage to the casing from her 
machine being  dropped during the initial visit to view the machine.
Miss P also said that if she had to accept the claim wasnt  covered she wanted us to look at 
her second  set of points:
Ref: DRN26277532The claim took a long time to be resolved, causing disruption to her business and 
damage to her reputation. The delay prevented her from buying a new machine while 
waiting for the final outcome
She wanted to claim on the business disruption part of her policy for loss of income  
while the claim was investigated  but Catlins refused
She wants a refund  of policy premiums from September  2017  onwards as she didnt  
have a working laser  tattoo removal machine  to be covered. Shed raised that several 
times but Catlin didnt  respond
The machine  was returned  from the second  engineer with additional damage.  When  
the machine was returned it was left for Miss P to collect  at the tattoo studio so she 
couldnt check for damage when it was returned.  The third engineers  report  says a 
loose screw was inside the machine causing  further damage.  The other two reports  
dont mention a loose  screw. So she thinks it was left there  accidentally  by the 
second engineer
Catlins loss adjuster was very difficult to deal with during the claim.
Our second investigator addressed Miss Ps points.  He explained  why he thought her first 
set of points didnt take away from the fact that the majority  of the engineers  reports  said the 
machine didnt work properly because it was of poor quality, not because it was dropped.
As to Miss Ps second set of points, the investigator  thought: Miss P wasnt prevented from 
buying a new machine  by the length  of time Catlin took to deal with this claim;  Catlin  didnt 
need to pay her business interruption claim;  Catlin didn't need to refund any premiums  as 
she still had cover for other matters under the policy; even if the machine was damaged by 
the second engineer the machine wasnt useable so extra  damage  didn't cause  Miss P a 
loss; we can't award compensation for any distress and inconvenience  experienced by the 
individuals involved in a micro-enterprise.
Miss P didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said:  she paid about £50  
premiums for the other treatment the policy insured so she wanted a refund for the premium 
paid for her tattoo removal work; she was given details and costs for the initial  fault on the 
machine and wasnt going to buy a new machine until she had a definite outcome; the 
machine is repairable but the damage by the second  engineer  means theres additional  cost;  
the micro-enterprise  has been  damaged due to the unreasonable amount  of time Catlin took 
to make its decision  as she had to turn away clients.
Before I made my decision I asked Catlin if there was a specific  policy  premium  just for 
tattoo removal as I was considering saying it should refund the relevant premium for the 
period that Miss P was unable to use the machine.  Catlin provided information and 
comments which I detailed in my provisional findings. I asked Miss P to provide evidence  
that C was a micro-enterprise,  which she did.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold part of the complaint. 
I thought Catlin should refund the policy  premiums relating to the laser  tattoo  removal  
machine from the time Miss P made the claim to the end of that policy year. I addressed  the 
other key issues Miss P raised.  I said:
the claim
Ref: DRN26277533Im not going  to repeat all the details of the engineers reports  and follow up correspondence  
which is well known to the parties.  The issue I need  to decide is whether on the experts  
evidence Catlin fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think  it did.
The policy covers accidental damage to Miss Ps machine.  But the policy  excludes:
natural or man-made inherent flaws or defects, wear and tear being a reduction in value 
through age, natural deterioration, ordinary use, depreciation due to use, lack of 
maintenance or damage which happens  gradually over a period of time, faulty or defective 
design or materials.
The engineer Miss P instructed  said there  was a crack on the main control card and the 
damage to the machine was consistent with it being  dropped.
Catlins engineers  report said it couldnt  find any evidence that the machine was dropped  or 
any sign of a cracked board. It thought the machines output was unstable  due to the poor 
build quality of the system.
The third and independent report gave more  detail of why it thought  the machine was of poor 
quality. It said the machine didnt conform to CE standards (CE standards are health,  safety  
and environmental  protection standards for products sold within the European  Economic 
Area, which includes the UK).
I think Catlin can reasonably rely on the majority of the experts evidence which  says the 
machine didn't work properly  because  it was of poor quality. Miss Ps first set of points  above  
don't alter that. Miss P chose the third engineer from a list of independent engineers and 
there's no reason why the third report's  findings should be discounted.
Catlin fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
time taken  to decide the claim
Miss P claimed on her policy around  18 September 2017 and she said she received the 
initial outcome  to her claim  on 4 December 2017.  By the time all three  reports  had been 
completed Catlin wrote to confirm its decline on 13 February 2018.
I understand that five months felt a long time to Miss P. But I can't see any delay on Catlins 
part in instructing the third engineer to report, which I think was a fair thing to do given the 
first two experts  couldnt  agree.  I dont think there  was an unreasonable  delay by Catlin.
I also note Miss Ps engineer told her in October 2017 that the machine couldnt be fixed and 
quoted her for a replacement. So she should  have reasonably been aware that she probably 
needed a new machine.
business disruption
Miss P says her broken  machine meant she was unable to do some of her normal  business.  
She had to turn down new business, cancel courses, and give refunds to clients.
Miss P asked Catlin about her cover under the business disruption  section of her policy and 
it told her she wasnt covered.
Ref: DRN26277534The business disruption section of the policy provides cover if theres insured damage. Catlin 
fairly and reasonably declined the business disruption claim as Miss Ps claim wasnt  for a 
loss resulting from insured damage. As Ive explained above,  Catlin  reasonably said the 
reason the machine wasnt working properly wasnt covered by the policy.
premium refund
Miss P says she requested a premium  refund  several times, Catlin says theres no record of 
her doing  so. It also says it incurred  considerable costs in investigating the claim. Thats not 
a reason to not refund the relevant premium.
From the time Catlin knew Miss P was no longer  using  the machine as it didnt work it was 
no longer on risk for the machine or the tattoo  removal treatment. I think  its fair and 
reasonable that it refund to Miss P the premium  she paid in relation to the machine and the 
treatment from the date she told it about the claim to the end of the policy  period. Ive given  
that end date on the basis that afterwards the policy wasnt  renewed, or if it was Catlin didnt 
charge Miss P for premiums relating to the machine or treatment. It needs to confirm that in 
its response to my provisional  decision.
Catlin has told me that £56.25 of the material damage premium and £100 of the treatment  
surcharges related  to the tattoo removal machine and treatment. It says Miss P told it about 
the claim on 18 September 2017  and the policy ended 8 May 2018. Its calculated that for 
232 days the refund for treatment risks would be £63.56 and £35.76 for material damage.  So 
I think it needs to refund  to Miss P £99.32 plus interest as Ive detailed  below.
additional damage
Miss P says the second engineer must have left the screw inside the machine that caused 
damage when  the third engineer started  the machine. Catlin denies its engineer made  an 
error. Theres not enough evidence for me to say the screw  was left in the machine by the 
second engineer.
Even if it had, theres a query over whether  the machine is repairable. The first engineer's 
evidence is the machine  isnt repairable. I accept the third engineer said the machine 
probably could  be repaired  but that would be to its original quality, which  the engineer said 
was poor and not conforming to CE standard.
Ive no evidence to show that Catlin should  pay for any additional repair  costs  the damage  
by the screw may have caused.
loss adjuster's  behaviour
Miss P has detailed how she found Catlin's loss adjuster  difficult  to deal with. Thats  not 
supported by the correspondence Ive seen, but it wouldnt necessarily be.
The policyholder and complainant is a micro-enterprise which  cant  suffer distress  and 
inconvenience due to a business' actions. Even if I did find the loss adjuster's behaviour 
caused Miss P trouble  and upset I cant award  compensation  to her as an individual within 
the micro-enterprise.
Ref: DRN26277535developments since my provisional decision
Catlin highlighted that the policy said:
Cancellation and Cooling Off Period
(b) Your Right to Cancel  after the Cooling-Off Period
You are entitled to cancel this policy after the cooling-off period by notifying  ... Any return  of 
premium due to you will be calculated at a proportional daily rate depending  on how long the 
policy has been in force unless you have made a claim in which case the full annual 
premium is due (my emphasis)
Catlin said if Miss P had cancelled the policy there  would have been no refund of premium  
as a claim had been made so it shouldnt have  to refund in Miss Ps circumstances. It added 
that the policy wasnt renewed.
I told Miss P that given the policy term I was minded  to agree Catlin didnt need to refund 
any premium.  As that would be a change to what my provisional decision said I asked 
Miss P for her comments to consider before I made a final decision.
Miss P said she wasnt aware  the policy could be cancelled once shed made a claim. She 
thought Catlin should have told her she could cancel the policy when she told it she was 
concerned shed paid a premium for treatment  no longer carried out.
As to other matters in my provisional decision,  Miss P said after the experts reports  her 
complaint wasnt about Catlin not accepting the claim  but about how it handled the claim. In 
summary she said:
She bought  the policy in good faith  and if Catlin was concerned  about the 
manufacturing standard of the machine it shouldnt have insured the machine
She believes the machine broke  so easily when dropped as it was of poor quality. 
She thought Catlin  didnt  believe the machine had been dropped  
Catlin had told her she was covered for disruption to business and didnt mention she 
was only covered if the claim  was successful
There is evidence further  damage was caused  by the second engineer. As soon as 
she received the machine from that engineer  she told Catlin  there were missing  
screws so the missing  screws must have been left inside  the machine
Throughout the whole process communication with Catlin  was difficult  and it was 
unprofessional, which  she detailed again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that Catlin has highlighted the above policy term about  the premium  Im persuaded it 
doesnt need to refund the pro rata premium to Miss P. The policy  is clear  that if a claim has 
been made there will be no premium refund if the policy is cancelled.  The policy wasnt 
cancelled but I accept that the same rationale applies when a claim has been made, as in 
this case.
Ref: DRN26277536Miss P says Catlin didnt  tell her she could cancel the policy.  The policy  covered other 
matters apart from the tattoo treatments so Miss P may not have wanted to cancel the 
policy. But even if she did then as shed made  a claim on the policy Catlin  wouldnt  have  
needed to refund any premium. 
Im now satisfied that Catlin doesnt  need to refund any of the policy premium to Miss P.
When Miss P made her complaint to us she wanted Catlin to pay her claim, which is why we 
looked at whether Catlin had fairly  declined her claim. For the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional findings I think Catlin did fairly  and reasonably decline her claim.
I have considered the matters Miss P raised  about  how Catlin handled  her claim and 
addressed the key issues in my provisional  findings. 
Miss Ps latest comments havent changed  my mind on those matters. I still dont think 
there's enough  evidence that the screw  was left in the machine by the second engineer. And 
as Ive said, even  if he had, theres a query  over whether the machine  was repairable  when 
that engineer  had the machine. Ive explained above  why Catlin  doesnt  need to pay any 
claim for business disruption.  
Ive seen all Miss P says about how she thinks Catlin handled the claim. But Ive already 
explained that even if I did think Catlins handling of the claim was poor I cant  award 
compensation as a micro-enterprise  doesnt suffer distress and inconvenience. Although 
Miss P dealt with the matter and may have been  stressed and inconvenienced, she was 
dealing with the matter on behalf  of C, a micro-enterprise. I cant award  compensation to her 
as an individual  even  if I did think Catlin  handled  the claim poorly.
  
Miss Ps raised that Catlin shouldn't have insured her machine if it was of poor quality. But 
Catlin wouldn't have known about the quality  of the machine until it got an experts  opinion  
for a claim. So I think it acted reasonably  in insuring the machine, subject to the policy terms.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint. Catlin  doesnt  have  to pay the claim, refund the premiums  or pay any 
compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627753