K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the amount  that hes been charged by FirstRand  Bank Limited, trading 
as MotoNovo Finance, for an incomplete  service history on a car that he returned  when he 
voluntarily terminated  his hire purchase agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with MotoNovo Finance 
in January 2016. The car was more  than five years old, had been driven for 65,123 miles 
and had a price of £6,200. The agreement was for five years  and Mr S was to make 59 
monthly payments  of £149.22 with a final payment  of £394.22.  He voluntarily terminated the 
agreement in January  2019 and MotoNovo Finance arranged  for the car to be collected. It 
charged Mr S £300 because the car had an incomplete service  history. 
He complained to MotoNovo Finance. It said that Mr S had agreed  to keep the car in good 
and substantial order and repair  and that it had written to him before he voluntarily 
terminated the agreement to say that he would be charged £300 if the car hadnt been  
regularly serviced  in line with the manufacturers recommendations. But it then offered to 
reduce the charge by 20%. Mr S wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded that 
Mr S had kept the car in good and substantial order and repair  so he recommended that 
MotoNovo Finance should remove the outstanding  final liability  of £300  and mark the 
agreement as settled  and closed.
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, 
in summary, that Mr S was sent a letter before he voluntarily  terminated the agreement 
which advised him of the charge for not having  the car serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations and that the car was sold at auction for £325  less than the 
reserve price so the lack of service history affected  the sale price.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S agreed in the hire purchase  agreement to: keep the Vehicle in good  and substantial 
order and repair ; and at the end of the agreement to:  return the vehicle  to us  and 
deliver up all insurance,  policies, licences, registrations and other  documents  relating to the 
Vehicle.
The agreement did not require Mr S to have  the car serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations or say that he had to deliver a full and complete service 
history for the car when  he returned it.
I consider that it would be reasonable for Mr S to have understood that he was responsible 
for keeping  the car in good and substantial order and repair. I consider that hes provided 
enough evidence  to show that he did that. The car passed MOT  tests,  its been maintained  
and repaired  and Mr S was able to use it to drive more than 50,000  miles in about three 
years.
Ref: DRN21840972MotoNovo Finance says that it wrote to Mr S when he was voluntarily  terminating  the 
agreement and advised him of the charge for not having the car serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations. But the requirement to have the car serviced in line with 
the manufacturers recommendations wasnt included in the agreement and there was no 
mention in the agreement of a £300  charge for not complying with that.
So Im not persuaded that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo  
Finance to charge Mr S £300 because the car was returned with an incomplete  service 
history. I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for it to remove  the charge for the 
incomplete service history (and any related charges  or fees) from Mr Ss account and to 
mark the agreement  as settled on his credit  file.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order FirstRand Bank  
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo  Finance,  to:
1.Remove the £300 charge for the incomplete service history  (and any related charges 
or fees) from Mr Ss account.
2.Mark the hire purchase  agreement  as settled on Mr Ss credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020..
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2184097