K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund him for transactions  worth  over £1,600 
which he didnt make.
background
In April 2018 Mr B went on holiday after a period working abroad. He spent his time eating 
out and having a few drinks. On 27 April he went a bit further  along  the coast for the day and 
then came back to where he was staying. He had late dinner and drinks  and then went out to 
a bar. This was a gentlemans club.
Mr B bought himself and some hostesses two sets of drinks.  He then had a cigar  but didnt 
go outside. Mr B remembered hed had a bit to drink. Hes not sure exactly  how long he was 
there but it was about three  hours or so. He had some food and drink  with a couple  of other 
women before he went back  to his hotel. He wasnt feeling at his best the following day but 
did have a nagging feeling about his card security. He believed it had remained on the bar all 
evening.
The following  day he checked his balance  by calling Lloyds automated  service.  It was much 
lower than hed thought.  Mr B went to the police and registered a complaint against the club.  
He believed whilst hed left his card at the bar itd been misused. He was sure thered been 
plenty of opportunity  for someone to have seen his PIN earlier  in the evening.
He called Lloyds  as hed not authorised  four transactions. Three of these were £440.39 each 
and the fourth was for £352.31. 
Lloyds rejected Mr Bs fraud claim. They mentioned  a previous claim that Mr B had made.  At 
that time theyd given  advice about how to take care of his card.  They didnt think Mr B had 
done this so felt it was fair to refuse his claim.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the detailed evidence. This included confirmation  Mr Bs genuine  
card and PIN were  used for the four disputed transactions. She felt it was most  likely Mr B 
had authorised the transactions  himself. The transactions were spaced  out rather than done 
within a condensed period. This suggested normal usage likely to be in a club of this type.
Mr B was upset by this conclusion. He believed the club had done these transactions  as hed 
never have  paid the amounts involved.  He was also concerned  at how the merchant was 
described on the statement narrative. This made  it sound like something other than the club 
he knows he was in. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
Ref: DRN22033472whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Firstly thats the law as highlighted above. In broad  terms a bank is expected  to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to look to identify and help prevent  transactions  particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could  involve fraud  or be the result of a scam (something 
also recognised  by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should fairly and reasonably take additional  steps, or make  additional  checks, before 
processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm.   
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr B, or whether it should have  done  more than it did. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Lloyds  and Mr B have  told us. Our investigator also got hold of copies of Mr Bs 
calls to Lloyds. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 20 January 2020. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
Ref: DRN22033473The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Theres no dispute Mr B was in a club in the early hours of the morning on 28 April. 
He tells us he was on his own relaxing after a stressful  period of work. He bought  two 
rounds of drinks  which cost £87.52  and £70.46.  
Mr B also doesnt dispute he was most  likely in the club for about three hours. He 
doesnt remember exactly (and I wouldnt expect him to) the time he spent there  or 
what happened. But I see no reason to think he wasnt there  for some  time. I 
therefore have  to wonder why he thinks he spent no money other  than those two 
rounds whilst he remained in the club for a time.
Looking at the six transactions altogether (the two, Mr B admits  are genuine, as well 
as the four disputed transactions)  I can see they took place over a three hour period. 
Like our investigator I note these transactions are all spaced out. If theyd been 
fraudulently done, its most likely these would have occurred in a much more 
compressed period.  No fraudster  would have known when Mr B would have come 
back to the bar to reclaim his card.
Its clear Mr B is a bit hazy  on some  of the details of the night. From what hes said, 
alleging the club swindled him, I think hes not sure whether he entered  the PIN 
himself or whether people running  the club did this on his behalf.  I accept  there would 
have been an opportunity  for them to see Mr B enter  his PIN earlier  in the evening. 
This is certainly a possibility Ive considered.
There are some  small inconsistencies between the stories Mr B has told us about 
what happened. But Id like to reassure him thats  not whats driven  my decision here. 
By the time we were  able to progress Mr Bs case it was already nearly  18 months 
after the event  so I wouldnt expect the stories to be identical.
By using  his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal  or even whether 
Mr B was so drunk he didnt notice what it said, Mr B was consenting to the 
transactions.
Lloyds didnt approach the club in question to verify what was purchased  at the time. 
I appreciate they had no grounds to chargeback the transactions (as fraud because 
they were completed using the genuine  card and PIN) but it was still open to them  to 
have raised a merchant dispute about  what was bought. This has meant  potentially  
valuable evidence doesnt exist.
Our service is aware of bars which have been  subject to a number of very similar  
complaints: threatening behaviour, over-charging,  or misleading  customers about 
what they were paying. Ive taken this into account.
From what  Mr B has told us, I believe its possible he did enter  his PIN whenever the 
terminal was presented to him. So I dont think its a stretch to say  under the law  he 
consented to the transactions.  I appreciate Mr B says he would  never have agreed to pay 
these kind of amounts,  but he may well not have known nor paid close  attention  to any 
amount showing  on the card terminal. But that doesnt mean  he didnt formally consent to 
the transaction being processed.
Lloyds had an obligation to follow Mr Bs instruction. But there are some  situations in which it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Ive considered the issues Mr B highlighted suggesting that Lloyds could have blocked these 
transactions. Firstly I can see all transactions were properly authenticated. Im also not sure 
 having reviewed Mr Bs bank statements  over a long period  these transactions  would 
have shown as out of character. I can see Mr B has visited similar establishments 
previously.
Ref: DRN22033474Mr B has queried how the merchant  was referred to on his statements. He believes this 
shows hed never  had done  the transactions involved. Its worth clarifying that merchants 
dont always process  their payments under the same name  as their bar or club. They may be 
owned by a separate entity which is whats used when payments are processed.  This isnt at 
all unusual.
Mr B has also thought it was odd that the amounts  show as odd figures. Nothing in the 
establishment was priced in odd cents.  I agree  but looking at Mr Bs statements I can see he 
was paying amounts in round figures. As he was in Europe, Mr B was charged in euros. 
These amounts  were €80, €100, €400  and €500.  
On balance I believe Mr B consented  to these payments and therefore theres no basis for 
me to ask Lloyds to refund  him.
I know Mr B will be disappointed in this outcome. I can reassure him Ive considered  all the 
evidence hes given  us including  his response to our investigators view.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2203347