K820x#14Complaint
Ms S has complained that ReAssure  Limited  sold her an extra  term assurance  policy  that 
she didnt need.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Ms S took out a term assurance policy in March 1998; Ill refer to this as policy A. She says 
she received a letter from ReAssure a couple of years later that explained its relationship  
with the adviser  that sold the policy had ended.  She says shortly afterwards she received an 
application form to complete.  This led her to believe she needed to take out a new policy  to 
replace policy  A. Her new term assurance  policy, policy B, started in August 2001. Ms S 
says she discovered she was still paying  for both policies in 2008 and asked ReAssure why 
this was. While ReAssure  cancelled policy A in February 2009, Ms S said she didnt receive 
an answer to her questions, which is why she brought her complaint to our service in 2019. 
ReAssure consented  to our service  considering  the complaint and it provided us with 
evidence showing how policy B was taken out in 2001 and why it didnt  believe  it had misled  
Ms S.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter ReAssure  sent to Ms S in November 1999. The letter  explained 
that ReAssures  business relationship with the adviser had ended  and said, please be 
assured that this does not affect  your insurance arrangements  with us  your policy 
continues on the same terms as before. So, I dont think Ms S was given grounds to believe 
policy A would  need  to be replaced. This letter was also sent almost  two years before policy 
B was taken  out, so it doesnt seem  likely  to me that the two events were connected.
ReAssure says Ms S completed an application form in 2001 but that she didnt receive any 
advice in respect of this, so it cant comment on her motivations for doing so. However, Ms S 
says that on receiving the application form, she phoned ReAssure and was told the new 
policy would replace policy A.
While Ive taken into account what Ms S has said, I dont  think its supported by the evidence 
provided. Having  seen a copy of her application  form,  I dont think ReAssure wouldve known 
about Ms Ss intention  to replace policy A. This is because she didnt complete the box 
asking her how much life cover she had already,  and she wrote that the reason  for taking the 
cover was, to increase  the life insurance  to cover  mortgage. So, based on the application  
form I think shed either  forgotten about policy A when she applied for policy B or she wanted 
to increase the cover she already had. In any event,  I dont think theres any evidence  to 
show that ReAssure  wouldve  known Ms S wanted  to cancel policy  A in favour  of policy  B. 
There arent any call notes from around the time she applied  for it. And as Ms S didnt write 
to ReAssure to ask it to cancel policy  A or stop her direct  debit  for it, I think it was reasonable 
for ReAssure to take premiums for both policies.
ReAssure has also advised that its records show she missed  premiums for both policies in 
2006 and after receiving arrears letters she got in touch by phone  to bring them  both up to 
date. It says Ms S was aware  she had two policies at this point and there was a discussion 
about replacing both of them with one policy with a higher sum assured. However, Ms S 
didnt take this forward.
Ref: DRN27943912I appreciate that with hindsight Ms S may not think she needed two policies. But I think  she 
wouldve known that policy  A was still in force in 2001 and that she hadnt  given any 
instruction to cancel  it. Ms S has also had the benefit of cover whilst policy A remained in 
place. Had she passed away  during  this time,  both policies wouldve likely paid out to her 
estate. Overall, I dont think ReAssure needs  to return any of the premiums  she paid for 
policy A between 2001  and 2009.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2794391