K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading at the time as TSB)  mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with two credit cards   a MasterCard and Visa card.  As the credit  
cards and PPI policies were sold on the dame  date,  Ill refer to them  jointly in parts of my 
decision. 
background
Mr J bought the PPI policies  in 1995 at the same time as taking out two credit cards. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since these  polices were sold - nearly  25 years, theres  very 
limited documentary evidence from the sale now available. This isnt at all surprising or 
unusual, and in situations like this Ive to decide  what I think  is more  likely than not to have 
happened - based on the available evidence. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint because:
Mr J has said that he was unaware  of requesting any insurance. 
Unfortunately there arent any notes available of the meeting, and understandably   
Mr J may not recall it clearly after so long. There are also no copies documents 
available to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering the 
sale took place  so long ago. Lloyds  has shown us two example agreements  that they 
say are relevant  to this sale, but Ive not relied  on them when coming  to my decision 
as theyre not clearly  dated. 
So its very difficult to know how the PPI was positioned with Mr J. In order for me to 
uphold this complaint for this reason, Id have to think  that Mr Js account was more 
likely than that of Lloyds.
But as these events  happened so long ago and as theres no documentary evidence 
to support either  partys position,  I have to conclude that Mr Js account is only 
as likely not more  likely . So on balance I cannot  safely conclude that the policies 
werent presented  as optional or that Mr J wasnt given a choice about  taking  PPI.
Ive considered that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr J as this places more 
responsibility on them. This means not only did Lloyds have to give Mr J good  
enough information about the PPI, but they also had to take reasonable steps before 
making a suitable recommendation  based  on his circumstances.  
Ref: DRN24948162As the actual policy documents for Mr Js policies arent available,  I've considered the 
nearest relevant policy document, alongside what we know more  widely  about  PPI 
policies sold by Lloyds  over a much  longer  period of time.  Having done  so, I think 
that the PPI seems to have been  right for him based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time.
In particular, Ive carefully considered what Mr J has told us about  his employment 
circumstances at the time of sale. But I dont think that it would have  been  very 
difficult for Mr J to make an unemployment  claim. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr J doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr J comments,  but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2494816