K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  three complaints about the National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
First they feel NatWest  unfairly issued a formal demand notice for a debt they claim is a joint 
debt relating to an overdraft. Mrs E does not accept liability for the debt and is unhappy that 
her credit score has been adversely affected. Mr and Mrs E also complain that despite 
putting forward re-payment proposals NatWest have not accepted them.
background
I wont repeat the investigators entire  background summary because  it covers the issues  
and I want to avoid  repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something  its not because  Ive 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.  In summary, NatWest claim 
that Mr and Mrs E have a joint bank  account with them. The overdraft on the account is 
around £47,000 and Mrs E disputes this to be her liability. Mr E does not. Mrs E asked 
NatWest to provide  evidence in the form of the documentation which  would have been 
completed on the opening of the account  but they have been unable  to.
Even though  Mrs E disputed the debt,  NatWest issued a notice to repay the debt to both 
Mr and Mrs E. When Mr E made  contact  with NatWest an advisor told him she was going 
away on leave for a week but that no further  action would  be taken during that time. But 
during that week  another advisor tried to contact Mr and Mrs E, and when they were unable  
to do so, issued  a formal demand notice which then resulted  in an adverse credit  score.  
Mr E has made a proposal  to pay the outstanding  debt, which NatWest have rejected.
NatWest say they are confident that the bank account was a joint liability  for Mr and Mrs E 
and as such both are liable to repay  it. As no satisfactory proposals  for repayment have 
been made NatWest  say they are entitled in accordance with the terms and conditions to 
pursue them  both for the debt, and do not accept they have done anything  wrong  in issuing 
the formal demand  notice.  They  say that making  a report of the same to the credit reference  
agencies was again in line with the terms and conditions which applied to the account.
Mr and Mrs E were  unhappy with NatWest s response and so an investigator from this 
service looked into the complaint but didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly. As Mr 
and Mrs E didnt agree,  the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether the Bank acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt 
with Mr and Mrs E. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been 
achieved. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power to 
make rules  for financial  businesses, punish  them, or direct  that they change  their processes. 
That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct Authority. Equally we are not a court  
service. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
Ref: DRN27471542that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. Looking at the available evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. 
NatWest has been  unable to produce the account opening documentation, but that doesnt 
mean Mrs E was not a joint account holder. NatWest has produced  other evidence in the 
form of bank statements  going back to 2012  addressed to Mrs E. Mrs E was also issued with 
cards for the account. Also, there is no evidence that Mrs E ever wrote to NatWest  to alert 
them throughout this period that the account  was incorrect, and so I am satisfied on a 
balance of probabilities that the account was probably a joint account. As such  NatWest are 
entitled to pursue Mrs E for the outstanding sums.
I know Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that the formal demand notice was issued. I think I can 
accept Mr Es assertion  that NatWest said no action would be taken whilst the advisor was 
away, since Ive seen  no evidence to the contrary. Prior to the advisors leave, discussions 
took place concerning a possible consolidation loan and Mr E was made  aware that he and 
his wife would be required to enter  into that new loan and that any affordability repayment  
plan would need to be agreed with Mrs E. However, NatWest clearly  thought  about  matters 
further since another advisor tried to contact Mr and Mrs E during that week.  I might assume 
this was because  they reflected upon Mrs Es denial of any liability for the debt. Having been 
unable to contact  them, it seems NatWest then took the decision to issue the formal demand 
notice. I can also accept  this might have been  a surprise  for Mr and Mrs E, but as Mrs E had 
always disputed the account was anything  to do with her, it is likely the demand  would have  
been issued within a few days anyway of the advisor  returning. So I dont see there has 
been any prejudice to Mr and Mrs E by the earlier than expected issuing of further action.
I can fully appreciate that Mr E has put forward  proposals to repay the debt, but NatWest  do 
not have to accept  them.  When a bank  knows their customer  is in financial difficulties they 
are obliged to treat that customer sympathetically and fairly. They  have  to deal positively 
with their customers and they can do a range  of things,  depending on the customers  
circumstances. But they have to be sure that such proposals are affordable and clearly they 
arent. I think  they are entitled to reach that conclusion in the absence of any recognition by 
Mrs E that she has any liability for the debt.
It follows from my findings that I also consider NatWest to have not acted unfairly in making 
their report  to the Credit  Referencing Agencies regarding  the operation of the account. Like 
all banks NatWest is obliged to report correct and relevant information regarding  their 
customers accounts.
So I will anticipate that Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed with my decision but I do not 
consider that NatWest  has acted unfairly  here and Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Ref: DRN27471543Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2747154