K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited was irresponsible  when it provided  
three loans  to him between 2006 and 2010.
background
Mr G took three home collected credit loans  with Provident between November 2006 and 
November 2010.  This means that a Provident  agent  attended at Mr Gs home to arrange  the 
loans and receive repayments. 
This table  shows some  of the information  Provident  has provided to us about Mr Gs loans.
loan 
numberloan date amountdate 
repaidterm 
(weeks)weekly  
amounttotal 
repayabletotal 
interest  
payable
1 07/11/06 £300 04/12/07 55 £9 £495 £195
2 26/10/09 £500 08/11/10 52 £17.50 £910 £410
3 05/11/10 £1,000 29/11/11 50 £35 £1,750 £750
One of our adjudicators has recommended that Mr Gs complaint  about Loans 2 and 3 
should be upheld.  Provident hasnt responded to that assessment. As the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally  it has come  to me  an ombudsman   for a decision.  If Mr G 
accepts this final decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This Service doesnt have  jurisdiction  to look at complaints about home collected credit  loans 
provided by Provident  before April 2007.  So Im not able to make a decision about  Loan 1. 
At the point Provident provided  Loans  2 and 3 to Mr G it was licensed by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT).  There is no doubt  that businesses like Provident had a duty not to act 
irresponsibly. And over the years  the regulations and guidance have evolved. Broad, good 
practice dictated that lenders should ensure that all loan applications went through  sound 
and proper credit assessments and that the interests of the borrowers should be taken into 
full account.  
And in January 2008 the OFT issued the Consumer Credit Licensing  General Guidance for 
Licensees and Applicants on Fitness and Requirements  clarifying some of the regulators 
thoughts on what  it considered to be irresponsible lending.
The guidance explained  that the aim of the OFT was to ensure  that an appropriate standard 
of consumer protection was in place and that it would focus on a several things when 
assessing fitness of applicants  for licenses. One of those considerations was integrity, 
adding that The way you operate any aspect  of a business may well be relevant to your 
fitness to hold a consumer  credit  licence. It went on to provide examples of the kind of 
evidence that may involve  integrity issues. The final example stated   evidence of business  
practices that appear to the OFT to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise unfair or 
Ref: DRN20524982improper whether  unlawful or not and whether arising in relation to the licensed business or 
otherwise with particular regard  to any breaches  of OFT guidance.  This could  include 
evidence of irresponsible lending.
The avoidance of unfair practices that may result in detriment  to consumers was central to 
the OFTs guidance.  When  granting licences, the OFT had regard to whether  businesses 
were being  run with integrity with particular concern around whether licence holders were 
engaging in unfair business practices of which irresponsible  lending was an example.  
Businesses had to take reasonable care to consider the risk to the borrower  and take full 
account of the borrowers interests. 
So before granting  credit  to Mr G in 2009, Provident had to carry out reasonable enquiries. 
These had to take account of the type of credit, the amounts  involved,  the nature  of the 
lender's relationship with the borrower,  and the degree of risk to the borrower. Given the 
amount of time which  has passed, Provident isnt able to provide the details of the 
assessments it did when it approved loans for Mr G. But Mr Gs representative has provided 
some evidence relating  to his health and financial  situation. 
It seems  that Mr G had a very serious medical  issue from 2008. This meant that he had to 
undergo surgery  and according to his representative this has left him with severe mental 
health problems which in turn have meant that he was unwell and unemployed at the time 
he took these  loans. 
As Ive mentioned  above, Ive seen  various  documents which  relate to Mr Gs health, income 
and ability  to work from 2008 to 2011. These include information about the surgery  he 
underwent, notes from his doctors  signing him off work for 3 months at a time, details of 
outpatients appointments and notices of benefit payment entitlements.  
Im satisfied that at the point Mr G took Loan 2, his very limited income meant that the 
repayments on Loan 2 of £17.50 per week   which accounted for a significant  proportion of 
Mr Gs income   were unaffordable.  Additionally, I think its reasonable to conclude  given 
Mr Gs heath issues  - that the agent who called at his home to arrange this loan, was aware 
of his potential  vulnerabilities. With all of this in mind, Im persuaded that Provident failed to 
take account of Mr Gs interests  when it provided him with Loan  2. 
In the first few months of having Loan 2, Mr G did miss some of his weekly repayments. On 
occasion he paid a larger amount in what seems to have been attempt to catch-up. But 
these missed payments  did mean that by October  2010  by which time he shouldve repaid 
Loan 2, he was behind. I can see that in the first week of November 2010  Mr G repaid a total 
of £70.50 and settled  Loan 2. But three days before he did settle it, he took Loan 3. Im 
satisfied that its likely that Mr G used some of the proceeds of Loan 3 to pay-off Loan 2.
Loan 3 was for double the amount of Loan 2  and the repayments  were now £35 per week 
 around £151  per month. Just three  weeks before he took this relatively high loan, Mr G 
was again signed off work by his doctor  for three  months.  
By the time Loan  3 was issued the OFT had published further guidance for licensed lenders 
 the Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). In this the OFT provided greater clarity for 
businesses as to what it considered might  constitute irresponsible  lending  practices.  And it 
outlined its general  principles for fair business practice which  included  - amongst other  
things - making a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  could afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner.  
Ref: DRN20524983It added that in the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should  involve a 
consideration of the potential for the credit  commitment to adversely  impact on the 
borrower's financial situation, taking account  of information that the lender  was aware of at 
the time the credit was granted. 
'Assessing affordability', was described  as a 'borrower-focussed  test' which  involved a lender 
assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  or specific 
additional credit  commitment,  in a sustainable manner, without the borrower  incurring 
(further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse  consequences.
With this in mind  together with the broader  circumstances  and history Ive outlined, Im 
satisfied that it was irresponsible of Provident to provide Loan  3. It wasnt  reasonable for it to 
conclude that Mr G would be able to afford to repay Loan 3 in a sustainable  way.
So, in summary,  Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about Loans 2 and 3. 
putting things right
Provident shouldnt  have provided Loans 2 and 3 to Mr G and should put things  right as 
follows:
a)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards  interest, fees and 
charges on these loans
b)Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of a), calculated from the date he originally  made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
c)Pay Mr G the total of a) plus b).
d)Remove any adverse  information Provident has recorded on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to Loans 2 and 3.  
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Provident  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Loans 2 and 3 and require 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2052498