K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a fixed sim loan financed by Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. She further complains the vehicle was 
mispresented in terms of the number of previous owners. And that the finance agreement  
was misrepresented in not detailing the correct  deposit. She wants to reject  the vehicle  and 
receive compensation.
background
Mrs C tells us she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call CT in November 2018. She 
complains that the vehicle  began to make a noise when she was driving and that this has 
persisted. She further complains that she was told the vehicle only had one previous  owner  
but that she later discovered there had been  three previous owners. Mrs C also states that 
she paid £1,000 deposit but that the agreement only records  £335.
Hitachi told us that the advert did not state  that the vehicle had only one previous owner. 
And that CT had offered  to provide a free diagnostic test to ascertain the cause of the noise. 
It later explained that Mrs C had part-exchanged  a vehicle which  had been  valued at £7,500. 
But the outstanding finance  had amounted to £8,165. This meant that £665 of Mrs Cs 
payment went to settle the finance.  And the remaining £335 was used as a deposit.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He issued two views. In 
the first view, he explained that the diagnostics report  hed seen  - which Mrs C had supplied  
- referred to items which were classed as general  maintenance issues or wear and tear. He 
was unable to say what Mrs C had been told about  the number of previous owners.  But he 
didnt think this had been the main reason she acquired the vehicle  as shed mentioned  the 
main reason  was that the vehicle was fitted  with a satellite navigation system. He didnt think  
the number of owners had been misrepresented. In his second view he explained that it was 
accepted that Mrs C had made payment of £1,000. But only £335 was allocated  to the 
deposit on her new vehicle as the balance had been used to pay off the outstanding finance 
on the part- exchange vehicle which had been used in the deal.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs C is concerned about the circumstances in which she acquired  the 
vehicle. And that she feels  she was misled in material  aspects of the deal.
Mrs Cs finance agreement was a fixed sum loan. Whilst  I dont apply  the law  directly - I do 
take it into account. Relevant legislation  here includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974 (CCA). And the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA).
Briefly summarised, section 75 in certain  limited circumstances gives a consumer an equal 
claim against the provider of finance  (Hitachi) as they would have against the supplier  of the 
goods (CT) or the credit  broker. It requires there to have been  a breach of contract and / or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier in relation to the goods and / or the finance agreement.  
Ref: DRN21377102Here, CT is both the supplier of goods and the credit  broker  for the finance agreement with 
Hitachi. Accordingly, Mrs C is able to bring  a claim  against Hitachi in relation to both the 
goods supplied  and the finance agreement.
The main  aspects of Mrs Cs complaint relate to the quality  of the vehicle; and the alleged  
misrepresentations regarding the deposit  and the number of previous owners.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill deal with each  of the complaint points  separately  starting with the number of previous 
owners. Ive seen the vehicle advertisement, and this makes  no reference  to the number of 
previous owners.  Obviously, I cant say what Mrs C may have been told verbally.
Mrs C explained to our investigator  that the main  reason she chose this vehicle was that it 
was fitted with a satellite  navigation system. A misrepresentation is a false  statement of fact 
which induces a consumer to enter an agreement and to suffer a loss as a result  of the 
misrepresentation. Given the advert  makes no mention of the number of owners and Mrs Cs 
main reason  for her acquiring the vehicle wasnt related  to this aspect I dont find theres 
been any misrepresentation over this issue. Equally, I dont find theres sufficient information 
for me to say that the vehicle was not as described, when it was supplied  to Mrs C.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory.
The vehicle had covered 43,606 miles when acquired by Mrs C. It was about  three  and a 
half years  old. Its reasonable  to expect a vehicle of this age and mileage will require 
maintenance and items will need to be replaced. The diagnostics report  Ive seen relates to 
components including brake discs, lights and tyres requiring immediate attention.  I think that 
a reasonable person would expect  that these are just the sort of parts  that might need  
replacing on a vehicle of this age and mileage. Theres insufficient information  to show  the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive seen the sale invoice relating to the transaction. This sets out that the allowance for the 
vehicle Mrs C was part-exchanging was £7,500. The outstanding finance was £8,165.  Im 
aware Mrs C has said she was told that C would waive this. But theres no documentary 
evidence to support  this. And I would expect  where  several hundred pounds was involved  
there would be a record kept for accounting  purposes. Its also clear the finance agreement 
which Mrs C signed lists the advance payment (deposit)  as £335.
Ref: DRN21377103In summary,  I dont find there was any misrepresentation of either the vehicle or the finance 
agreement. And in my opinion, theres  insufficient information to show  the vehicle wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. I dont think Hitachi did anything  wrong  in not finding 
thered been a breach  of contract or misrepresentation. In these circumstances Im not 
upholding this complaint.
. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2137710