K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PP).
background
Mr L applied for a credit card in 1997  and bought  the PPI policy  at the same  time.
Mr L says his employment, sickness and accident  history has always been impeccable  and, 
if Barclays had followed correct procedures,  it wouldve known he didnt need the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ls complaint didnt uphold  it. He disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I know this will disappoint  him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr L he had a choice about  PPI and get his agreement 
to it. I think  it did this. I understand  from Barclays the PPI was sold at a meeting in a branch. 
And Ive seen a copy of the credit card application  form Mr L signed.  Theres a section  on 
the form about PPI, with yes  or no options  that can be ticked  depending on whether or not 
an applicant wants PPI. On Mr Ls form, the yes option has been ticked. So I think Barclays  
probably asked  Mr L about  his insurance needs during their meeting and, at the time, he 
decided he wanted  PPI knowing he didnt have to have it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr L, so it needed to make sure it was right for him in his 
circumstances. I dont  know  what steps  Barclays took to do this but, from what  Mr L says of 
his circumstances  at the time and the policy details Ive got, I think  it was. I say this because:
Mr L was eligible for the PPI. And he wasnt caught by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  like known health  issues or unusual  employment terms. And 
although Mr L had only been  working for his current employer for a couple of months 
when he took out the policy, he says hed been working for another  employer  before  
that, without any breaks in his employment. So I dont think  there  was anything to 
stop him claiming  the full policy benefit  if hed needed to.
Mr L says hed have  got some  sick pay from his work at the time.  But, if hed made a 
successful claim  for sickness, accident or unemployment, the PPI wouldve helped 
with his card repayments for up to 12 months  for each claim. This was much  longer 
than he says his full sick pay lasted  and the policy wouldve paid out on top of his 
sick pay. Mr L says his sickness and accident record was impeccable  but insurance  
is designed to protect  against the unexpected. So, all in all, I think the PPI gave Mr L 
a potentially useful  benefit.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr L couldnt afford the cover.
Ref: DRN24079662As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Barclays  also had to give Mr L enough  
clear information about the main policy terms for him to be able to decide in an informed way 
if he wanted it. Its likely Barclays didnt make  some things as clear  as it shouldve  like the 
true cost of the policy and the things it didnt cover. But, as Ive already said, I think  Mr L 
agreed to it and it was right for him in his circumstances. So I dont think clearer  information 
wouldve changed his decision   I think its likely,  at the time,  hed still have gone  ahead with 
it.
Finally, Mr L mentions hes had multiple  successful claims against  other  PPI providers in 
circumstances that are identical to those  in this case. So he doesnt understand why we 
havent upheld  this complaint. I cant comment on the other complaints Mr L has had. All I 
can say is that, on the facts and circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons Ive 
given, I dont think it would be fair to uphold it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2407966