K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) didnt carry out a 
balance transfer  request.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March  2019, a copy  of which is 
attached as it forms part of this final decision. Both Miss S and Creation were happy with my 
provisional findings. However, Miss S has made  us aware that Creation have chased her to 
make payment on her credit card account while we have been looking into her complaint.
Miss S says she complained to Creation about this and they offered her £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill. However, they have now told her that they cant  pay the £25 to her at the moment  
because of her account status.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the parties both accepted my provisional  findings, my final decision will be along  
the same  lines. However, its not reasonable that Creation have been chasing Miss S for 
payment while  this service has been investigating the complaint. Creation have 
acknowledged this and offered £25 as compensation. I think thats a fair amount in the 
current circumstances. So I shall add this to the overall amount of compensation which  
Creation must now pay to Miss S, making  it £175  in total.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), my final 
decision is that Creation  Financial Services  Limited must:
write off the balance of £2,400 from Miss Ss Creation credit  card (the Balance);
refund any interest and charges which Miss S has paid to Creation arising from the 
Balance (if they have  not done so already);
provide confirmation that they have removed any adverse entries  relating to the Balance  
from Miss Ss credit file;
refund to Miss S the interest  she has paid to L (as referred to in my provisional  decision)  
on credit of £2,400  from 31 January 2018 to date (the L Interest);
pay to Miss S simple interest  of 8% per year on the L Interest from the date it was paid 
by Miss S until the date of settlement; and
pay compensation of £175 to Miss S for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25118352copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Miss S complains  that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation)  didnt  carry out a balance 
transfer request.
background
Miss S has a credit card with another  business, which  Ill call L. In January  2018, she arranged to 
transfer the balance of £2,400 from that card on to a credit card she has with Creation. The balance 
was added  to the Creation  card,  but the funds  werent  credited to her account with L. Miss S queried 
the situation with L, who said they hadnt  received the money. So the balance of £2,400 is currently 
showing on both cards.
Miss S is still paying off the balance on her card with L. She isnt paying  it off on the Creation card as 
she says she hasnt  had the funds from them. Creation applied late payment charges  to her account  
and she says they marked  on her credit file that she had missed payments.  She says she wasnt able 
to get an overdraft for the amount she wanted because of this.
When Miss S complained  to Creation, they said they had sent the funds to L as per her request. So 
they said they hadnt  done anything wrong. But they have placed her account on hold and removed 
the late payment  fee as a goodwill gesture.  Miss S wasnt happy with their response and the fact that 
the situation is unresolved,  leaving the balance  of £2,400 showing  on two credit cards.  So she 
brought her complaint against Creation to this service.
Creation told our investigator that they sent the transfer using the destination account details which  
were entered by Miss S on her online account.  They  say they have received numerous  complaints 
from customers who have accounts with L and who are experiencing similar issues with payments not 
being credited to their accounts. Creation say they cant be sure what  has happened to the funds, but 
they did send them. They  believe  the money  is with L and sitting  in a suspense  account. However, I 
note that when Creation tried to recall the funds, it seems they contacted another  bank by mistake 
and not Lloyds.
Both Miss S and our investigator have contacted L to see whether they have the funds. L have  
confirmed not only that the funds didnt reach Miss Ss credit card account,  but also that they havent 
been able to locate the funds.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that Creation  had sent the funds to L. They had provided screenshots 
showing the balance transfer  was approved,  but he didnt  think that amounted to proof of the money  
being sent.  Creation provided further  information which  they say confirms  the transfer was made. But 
our investigator still didnt  think it was proof of the funds being sent to L.
He upheld the complaint and made recommendations as to how Creation should  resolve  it. He also 
considered the way in which the situation had impacted on Miss S and asked Creation to pay her 
compensation of £150. Miss S was happy with the recommendations but Creation didnt agree. They 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is 
here, I reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most  likely to 
have happened, in light of the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN25118353The first issue  I need to consider here is whether  there has been a typing error when the destination 
account details were  entered, either by Miss S initially or subsequently by Creation. But that doesnt 
appear to be the case here. Creation say they used the details as they had been  input by Miss S 
using her Online Account  Manager. And Miss S has confirmed that those details are the correct 
details for her account  with L. So I think I can rule out an inputting error here.
So this is a situation where the problem lays between two banks.  Creation say they sent the money. 
But L say they havent  received it. In this scenario, I would expect the sending bank  to take 
responsibility for sorting out the problem. They are the ones  who have details of where they sent the 
money and how their systems work. So they will be more easily able to find out what has happened. It 
would be very difficult for the receiving  bank  to get to the bottom of things in this situation.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are relevant here. The Regulations  say that Creation are 
liable for the correct execution of the balance  transfer, unless they can prove  that L received the 
money. To date, L have  said they dont have the money. The onus is on Creation to prove they do, but 
I havent seen any evidence of this from Creation. I believe Creation  were going to try and recall  the 
funds from L but that doesnt  seem to have happened. So what this means here is that Creation must  
refund Miss S and restore her account to the position it would have been in but for the failed transfer.
Whilst the funds never arrived  in Miss Ss account with L, the transfer  did take effect on her Creation  
credit card, to the extent that £2,400 was added to that balance. This seems to have happened on 31 
January 2018. So the effect of the Regulations here would be for Creation  to put Miss Ss account 
back to the position it was in before that.
The Regulations also say that Creation  are responsible for any charges  and interest which Miss S has 
to pay as a result of the failed transfer. I understand that Creation have refunded the late payment  
charges and interest on Miss Ss account with them which arose  from the balance transfer. They  have 
also put the account on hold,  so it is not currently incurring charges. And they say they have corrected 
her credit file so that there are no late payment markers  connected with this situation.  That all seems 
to be fair. But they also need to pay the interest and any charges which have accrued on Miss Ss 
credit card with L as a result of the funds not being credited to that account.
In addition, I agree with our investigator that Creation should pay some compensation to Miss S to 
recognise the impact this situation has had on her. It has been very stressful  and an ongoing source 
of worry for her over a long period of time. She feels the onus has been put on her to sort things out. I 
would have expected Creation to know what the Regulations  say and to have implemented them  
before now.  Because  they didnt, the situation has been  prolonged for Miss S. I think  compensation of 
£150 is a fair amount to reflect whats happened here.
So Im planning to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, Creation 
Financial Services  Limited must:
write off the balance of £2,400 from Miss Ss Creation credit card (the Balance);
refund any interest and charges which Miss S has paid to Creation  arising from the Balance (if 
they have  not done so already);
provide confirmation that they have removed  any adverse entries relating to the Balance from 
Miss Ss credit file;
refund to Miss S the interest she has paid to L on credit of £2,400 from 31 January 2018 to date 
(the L Interest);
Ref: DRN25118354pay to Miss S simple  interest  of 8% per year on the L Interest from the date it was paid by Miss S 
until the date of settlement; and
pay compensation of £150 to Miss S for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2511835