K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr D and Mrs D were sold the policy  in 2003, at the same time as applying for a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D if he had an accident, was sick, or became unemployed  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £568.89 a month towards 
Mr D and Mrs Ds mortgage balance in the event of a successful  claim.  At the time, it cost 
£43.50 a month. 
At the time of the sale, Mr D was employed as an operations  manager.  He has told us he 
cant remember if he was entitled to sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying 
their mortgage should he be unable to work.  Mr D has said he was in good health at the time 
of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007. 
Mr D and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr D and Mrs Ds representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr D and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr D and Mrs Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr D and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr D and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN22255282The information Mr D and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr D and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Mrs Ds 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN22255283The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr D and Mrs Ds case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr D and Mrs D with reasonable  care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr D and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr D and Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Ref: DRN22255284Mr D and Mrs D suffered  loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and Mrs D 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr D and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds have provided a copy of Mr D and Mrs Ds mortgage application.  And I can see that a 
box has been ticked on this to show that PPI was required. Mr D and Mrs D also completed 
a separate PPI application form and direct  debit mandate for the cover. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mr D and Mrs D knew the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. And, from what Ive seen, I think  this was the 
case.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr D and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D and Mrs D. It seems  Mr D and Mrs D cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr D and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr D would  have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  Mr D 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr D and Mrs D given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr D and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr D and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  Mr D was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr D and Mrs Ds finances would be put under strain if he were not 
working  even allowing for the possibility that he might have been  entitled to some  
Ref: DRN22255285sickness and redundancy benefits  and his partners income. The policy would  have 
helped Mr D and Mrs D manage the consequences were Mr D unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr D and Mrs D. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr D and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ds employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr D be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Ds circumstances, including his partners  income and any employee  
benefits he may have  been entitled  to, (which they might expect to provide an 
income during  the policys 60-day qualification period) and the limits to those 
provisions, which mean the policy could play an important role after those 
provisions were  exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr D and Mrs D be unable  to make 
the repayments on loans secured against this.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr D and Mrs D sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr D and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr D was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  
Mr D and Mrs D would  have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy  was 
for and of how much the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr D and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr D and Mrs D Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr D and Mrs D all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN22255286Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr D and Mrs Ds representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr D and Mrs Ds. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr D and Mrs Ds representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr D and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr D and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss  shortcomings have on Mr D and Mrs D? To what extent  did 
Mr D and Mrs D suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr D and Mrs D. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr D and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr D and Mrs D would have  still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr D and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr D and Mrs D have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Lloyds had explained things 
properly, Mr D and Mrs D would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
out the policy in any event.
Mr D and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN22255287return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr D and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr D was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr D and Mrs Ds circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr D and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr D and Mrs D applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr D and Mrs D 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr D and Mrs D would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr D and Mrs D would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Mr D and Mrs Ds expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the 
policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in 
the event of a claim than they would have  expected  as there  was an additional cash  
payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr D knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr D be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr D and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN22255288But, the evidence  about Mr D and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr D was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr D would  have  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr D didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions and had been in permanent employment  without a 
break for at least six months. So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy  
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr D and Mrs D 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr D and Mrs D had known Mr D could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr D unable  (through disability) to carry on 
his own occupation  the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr D and Mrs D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr D would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr D and Mrs D would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr D and Mrs D be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr D and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr D made redundant, or unable 
to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr D and Mrs D would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  
on cover.
Mr D and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN22255289Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr D and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account 
Mr D and Mrs Ds circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr D and Mrs D found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position  
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr D and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr D and Mrs D compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr D and Mrs D think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Lloydss statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Lloyds gave Mr D and Mrs D, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr D and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Lloyds negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr D and Mrs D and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr D and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN222552810my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2021.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2225528