K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs A bought their policy in their local bank branch in 2010.  They  say they didnt 
know the premiums would increase over the years. When they had a financial review with 
their bank in 2015,  the cost of the policy was pointed out to them. They were offered cheaper 
separate Buildings and Contents policies with Lloyds. They cancelled the old policy and took 
out the new ones.
Mr and Mrs A say that they didnt receive any renewal notices so werent aware of the 
increases in price. They also said it was very difficult for them  to identify  the entries for the 
insurance on their bank account. Lloyds showed  us screenshots to show that the documents  
were sent out. It pointed  out that the policy had introductory discounts which were recouped 
in subsequent years. It offered to refund some of the premiums.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  with the offer and pointed out, after receiving  copy  renewal 
documents, that Mr As first name was listed wrongly which could have  affected  them  if 
theyd made  a claim. They  also said that they were given some  additional cover they hadnt 
requested.
Our adjudicator obtained an assurance  from Lloyds  that the change of name, which was 
made after cancellation, didnt affect  the policy. She further pointed  out that the additional  
cover was standard and didnt affect  the premium.  She said that she thought the offer made 
to Mr and Mrs A by Lloyds was fair.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept it and the matter was passed to me for review.  On considering it I 
thought that Lloyds should be making a higher offer. I said that taking into account  that there 
was an alternative policy  and that Mr and Mrs A didnt engage with Lloyds over premiums, it 
should set a base price  for the total premium  in line with the 2012  premium  (£489.24).  Then 
it should refund the difference between that premium and the premiums paid for the years 
2013 to 2015 inclusive,  plus 8% interest.  This resulted in an increased  offer of £405.17  plus 
net interest of £112.13.
Lloyds agreed  to this but Mr and Mrs A havent accepted the revised  offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A bought their policy in 2010.  I dont think it likely that they would have been told 
there would be no increases in premium. But unless they were specifically told, they wouldnt 
have expected such large increases,  from 2011 onwards and the following years,  of 
respectively 23%, 19% and 20%. 
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt receive the renewal  documents. But Lloyds has sent us 
screenshots showing those documents were  duly sent out each year. I wouldnt expect them  
to have been sent by recorded delivery.  Mr and Mrs A also say it was hard to identify the 
Ref: DRN29901602entries on their bank account.  As they havent shown us those entries I cant really  comment 
on that specific point.  But I dont think from my knowledge of these  products that generally 
Lloyds makes it difficult to recognise  an insurance direct debit.
I understand that the policy had an introductory  discount, which  was recouped  by Lloyds in 
subsequent years and was the reason for the large increase in the first three years.  I dont 
think such discounts are in themselves unfair.  The policy may well initially be priced below 
cost price to attract new customers and its not unfair for an insurer to seek to move  the 
policy to a more  realistic economic price over the first few years.
But in this case Mr and Mrs A didnt engage with Lloyds over the premium, until 2015. There 
are now rules in place whereby at the fourth  renewal  of a policy  the insurer  must tell the 
policyholder the previous years price  and that they may get a cheaper price if they shop 
around. Lloyds  has suggested that were  trying to impose that rule on it retrospectively in this 
case. But there have  always  been  rules that policyholders must  be treated fairly. And here 
Lloyds had an alternative cheaper product.  It may not have given  identical  cover but I do 
think that where a customer is potentially inert, its incumbent on the insurer  to make sure 
that the customer is able to engage and isnt at risk of potential detriment. This is rather than 
just putting the premiums  up by a large  amount year on year and relying on the renewal 
notices and direct debits without further  action.
I think it fair to look at the third years premium,  of £489.24 and set this as the base  price.  
This is because Mr and Mrs A might  have been  expected to engage with the bank by then.  
Then I think  it fair, as agreed by Lloyds,  for it to refund the premiums paid over and above 
that sum for the ensuing  policy years  up until cancellation in 2015  and add interest at 8%. I 
have set out the calculations for that to Mr and Mrs A. For 2015 they didnt pay the whole 
premium (as they cancelled the policy mid-term) so a proportionate refund will be made for 
that year. The total refund  is £405.17  plus interest.
With regard to Mr and Mrs As point about  the name change, I understand that, after the 
cancellation in 2015, Lloyds had Mr As first name wrong. It has confirmed that this would 
have made  no difference to any possible claim. I think it reasonable to accept that 
assurance.
Mr and Mrs A also mentioned that unwanted cover was added to the policy e.g. office 
equipment and contents in the garage. These were part of the standard cover  and wouldnt 
have attracted any extra premium.
Overall I think  the revised offer put forward by Lloyds to refund a proportion  of the premiums 
is fair and reasonable
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited should:
pay to Mr and Mrs A a total of £405.17  by way of refund of premiums.
add interest to the refunded portion of each instalment from the date each was paid until 
the date this award is paid at 8% simple  per year*
Ref: DRN29901603*Lloyds is required  by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs A request it, Lloyds should provide them  with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken  off so that, if appropriate,  they can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2990160