K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the offer that AXA Insurance UK Plc has made to replace her garden 
table, which  was damaged during a storm last year.
background
In early 2018 an arbour in Mrs Ws garden blew over during a storm. It landed  on her garden 
table and caused damage. She made  a claim  to AXA for the table.
AXA assessed the damage to the table and declined the claim. It said that the table was in a 
poor condition, with moss growing on the legs and there was an extensive amount of rot 
present. Whilst the damage might ordinarily have been repairable,  the amount of rot present 
meant that it wasnt economical to do so. 
AXA reconsidered its decision  and offered to pay half of the cost of replacing the table  
because of its poor condition before the damage happened. However, it didnt accept the 
amount Mrs W had said it would cost to replace the table was reasonable  it said that it 
couldnt determine whether the table was made  of teak as claimed or that it was bespoke.  
AXA offered  to settle on the basis of the cost of an off-the-peg  table costing £300. The 
excess was then deducted from this and so AXA would  pay £50 for the claim. It also offered 
Mrs W £75 for the inconvenience  its original  decision to decline the claim caused  her.
Mrs W wasnt happy with the offer and referred  her complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint and upheld it in part. She didnt  consider  that the 
terms and conditions of the policy allowed AXA to make a wear and tear deduction, so it 
should settle the claim at the full cost of a replacement table. In relation to the issue  of the 
cost of the table,  the investigator  said that if Mrs W could provide evidence that the table was 
made of teak,  as she believed, AXA should reconsider how much  it was settling the claim 
for. The investigator also considered the payment AXA had offered for the inconvenience  it 
had caused her in rejecting the claim initially. She thought the amount was reasonable.
Mrs W accepted the investigators view,  but AXA didnt. AXA said that the evidence clearly  
demonstrated that the table had deteriorated to such an extent that its structural  integrity 
was compromised. It considered that had the table been in good condition  it was unlikely 
that the arbour  would have caused  damage  when it landed on the table. It had offered a 
50% contribution in light of the fact there  was a storm and maintained that this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
However, before that happened, Mrs W provided  a letter  from a local carpenter  who said:
I have examined the wood  & in my opinion it is Teak or Teak Derivative
This was forwarded to AXA for comment,  but it declined to do so. It considered that this 
complaint should  be finalised on the evidence that was available to the investigator when 
she drew her conclusions. It would consider the letter separately and, if necessary, Mrs W 
could refer any further concerns she had back to us as a new complaint.  I didnt  consider  
that this was reasonable, given the matter of what the table was built from was part of the 
complaint Mrs W had originally raised with us.
Ref: DRN23081332As there was no detail  contained in his letter  about how the carpenter  had come  to his 
conclusion, our investigator called him to discuss his statement. He confirmed that he had 
been a carpenter for over 35 years  and knows what teak looks  like. He said he didnt 
complete any tests; he simply examined  the table. He also said that the table definitely 
hadnt been made of a soft-wood and he didnt think it could have been made from anything 
other than teak or a member of the teak family. The carpenter also explained  that years ago 
garden furniture was generally  made  of teak,  so that it lasted.
AXA also spoke to the carpenter.  It said having done so it maintained  its position.  It provided 
a copy of the call recording in which the carpenter said that he gave his opinion  based on the 
fact that he works in wood. He said he wasnt an expert so couldnt confirm exactly  what  
species it was. He went on to say that the furniture  was in such  a poor state of repair he 
couldnt be 100% certain that it was teak,  but it definitely wasnt a soft-wood like pine.  In his 
opinion it was teak or a member of the teak family.
I considered the evidence  in this case and issued a provisional decision on 
21 December 2018. In that document  I explained what  my conclusions  were and how I had 
reached them. Below is an extract from that document.
AXA has accepted that there was a storm when the damaged occurred and that the storm 
caused damage to the table. As such,  I dont need  to consider those issues.  What  I do need 
to consider is AXAs offer to settle  at 50% of the value of the table and what  that value is.
The offer made by AXA was for 50% of the replacement value of the table. It made this offer 
on the basis that there was considerable rot in the table and, but for that rot, the table was 
unlikely to have  been damaged, or it if had been,  would have been repairable.
I have looked  at the photographs of the table from the time of the claim and I can see there 
is a significant  amount  of rot in at least one of the long beams connecting the A-frames at 
either end of the table. It also seems that there  is some rot in the section of wood that was 
broken away by the impact.  
I accept that this rot would  mean  that the table couldnt be repaired. I think  it is also likely 
that it did contribute to the damage that was suffered when the arbour hit the table, as it 
would have weakened the structure considerably. Given that the break  occurred in the 
region of the rot, I consider that AXAs offer to settle  the claim on a 50% basis was 
reasonable, as there were two contributory causes for the damage  the storm and the poor 
condition of the table.
I now need to consider  on what basis  that 50% settlement should  be made on. AXA has 
offered to settle  based on a standard picnic table  of a few hundred pounds. However, Mrs W 
has said that her table was made of teak, which would  be a significant  upgrade  on the 
standard table  AXA has offered to settle  on. 
Despite knowing that there was a dispute  about  the wood the table was made out of. AXA 
didnt commission any tests or expert opinion. The only opinion we have of what  wood the 
table was made of is that of a carpenter Mrs W has used in the past. The carpenter has 
rightly said that he is not an expert and cant determine to the exact species  what  tree the 
wood came from. However, he is satisfied that it wasnt a softwood and believes it to be from 
the tree family that teak comes from, but cant for certain say which  one. This is based  on his 
many years of working with different woods.
Ref: DRN23081333In the absence of any other expert  opinion,  I am happy to accept the submissions  of an 
experienced carpenter, who works with different types of wood for a living.  Mrs W has said 
she was told the table had been made  from teak and the carpenter  has said that it is likely 
teak, but certainly from that family of tree. As such, I think  it likely  that the table was made 
from teak and AXA should determine  its settlement  based on the table having been  made  
from teak.
AXA offered  Mrs W £75 for the inconvenience and upset it caused her when it initially 
rejected her claim. I consider that this is an appropriate sum in the circumstances.
Mrs W didnt accept all of my conclusions. She said that she accepts there had been some 
wear and tear to the table,  but said that the wood itself was intact. She went  on to say that it 
had withstood  a lot of damage from the storm and she doesnt think  that it is irreparable  
only the table  top needed to be replaced. 
AXA didnt accept  my conclusions. It was unhappy  that I had said that it hadnt 
commissioned any test or expert  opinion  regarding what type of wood the table was made 
of. It said that was not the case  it had appointed  a furniture  specialist to inspect the table 
and provide their expert opinion. That specialist had been unable to determine accurately 
what type of wood the table was made from. AXA doesnt believe that the carpenters 
opinion is in any way more persuasive  than its experts opinion.
AXA went  on to comment that when its complaint handler had spoken  to the carpenter he 
had made  a point  of stating that he was not an expert and the table was in such a poor state 
of repair  that he could not be certain what wood it was made  of. When  these statements are 
considered alongside its own experts  comments,  AXA considers that the offer it made was 
fair. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  those made  in 
response to my provisional  decision, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly  address the concerns Mrs W has raised about my conclusions. I note that she 
considers the frame  of the table  was in reasonable condition and that it could have been 
repaired. However, the photographs from the time of the claim show that there was rot and 
that the rot had affected the frame of the table  the long supports for the table top. As such,  
I have to accept AXAs  expert opinion that the table couldnt be repaired.
AXA has objected to my acceptance of the carpenters opinion about the wood the table is 
made of. It has said that he is no more  qualified than its expert. I wouldnt necessarily 
dispute that. However, AXAs expert  simply said it didnt know  what  the table was made of, 
whereas the carpenter was comfortable  to voice an opinion  based on his significant 
experience. Effectively  only one opinion has been put forward and as such, its not 
unreasonable for me to place weight on that opinion.  
I would also respond  to AXAs comments about  what the carpenter said to its member of 
staff. Whilst  he did say he was not an expert and that he could not be certain about the 
wood, I believe that AXA may not have considered the context of those  statements  
appropriately. I have  listened to the conversation in question. The carpenter did say he 
couldnt be sure what  exact  wood the table was made of; in that he couldnt identify which 
Ref: DRN23081334member of the teak family  it was. He was, however, certain that it was a hard wood from the 
teak family.  
Overall, whilst I can understand AXA being unhappy  with my acceptance of the opinion of 
the carpenter and final conclusions, I havent been  persuaded to change those conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to settle 
50% of the cost of replacing Mrs Ws table (based on the table having been  made  of teak),  
less the policy excess. It should also pay Mrs W the £75 it offered for the inconvenience  of it 
initially incorrectly declining the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2308133