K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) service under his Homecare 
insurance policy. My references to BG include its agents.
background
In April 2017 BGs engineer told Mr B his central heating needed a power  flush. Mr B says 
he ignored BGs recommendation as he thought it was wrong.  In February 2018 a BG 
engineer again told him a power  flush was required. A power flush  isnt covered by Mr Bs 
Homecare policy and in March 2018  he agreed a quote for the work. 
Mr B says BG told him he would be contacted in about three weeks.  But it wasnt until early 
July that an appointment was arranged for the end of July. BGs engineer then told Mr B a 
power flush wasnt needed (nor was the replacement of a heat exchanger which  was also 
recommended but covered by the policy). That engineer found the problem was caused  by 
another matter.
 
Mr B complained to BG. Its final response  letter accepted its engineers  had misdiagnosed 
the problem. It apologised and said it had fed back to the manager of the relevant engineers.  
In that letter  BG offered Mr B £80 for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr B complained to us that £80 wasnt enough. He said he had inconsistent  hot water  supply 
and water pressure and someone should  pay in terms  of discipline for his inconvenience.  
He wants BG to investigate what went wrong  and tell him. He suggested BGs pressure on 
engineers to create sales may have played  a part in the misdiagnosis. He wants a refund of 
his central heating premium for the year.
BG told us that as well as the £80 referred to in its August 2018 letter to Mr B it had also paid 
him pay £75 for his complaint  about  delays. Its records showed Mr B told it he had heating 
and hot water and he didnt  want  the work completed in cold weather. BG said £155 
compensation was enough. 
Ultimately our investigator thought £155 was fair compensation. Initially  hed said BG should  
pay any additional heating  costs Mr B had from 2017 to July 2018  due to its misdiagnosis 
but there was no evidence that Mr B had such costs. He explained why we couldnt 
comment on BGs approach to selling power flushes. 
Mr B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He emphasised that his complaint was 
about BGs delay from February 2018  to July 2018  when he waited for the recommended  
flush and BG made no contact. He said he hadnt  received  £155  from BG.
Before I made my decision we gave  Mr B the dates BG said it had offered the £75 and £80 
compensation and asked  if hed received those payments. He confirmed hed received and 
cashed the £80 cheque. He remembered that when he told BG how unhappy he was in 
July 2018 it had refunded one of his premium payments of £75.66.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20008722I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Both parties  have referred to events  before  February 2018. Mr B has emphasised  that his 
complaint is about  the period February 2018 to July 2018 and thats the period  Ill consider.
Theres no evidence that Mr B incurred any additional heating  costs due to BGs 
misdiagnosis. Mr B says the cost of gas used would  be roughly the same but his loss should  
be measured by was hot water produced when required for showers, sink use and for other  
white goods. He says thats  impossible  to measure, but he should be paid a percentage of 
the cost.
As there was no financial loss, in effect  Mr B seeks compensation.  
There was a problem  with Mr Bs central heating that needed to be corrected so there would 
have been some delay in having the correct  problem remedied. But from what  BGs  said the 
delay wouldnt have  been as long as from March to July so I think  its misdiagnosis did cause 
some additional  delay.
Mr B told BG he had hot water and central  heating. But he says the hot water was 
inconsistent, either  tepid  or roasting and evening showers were always  tepid. Whilst the 
inconsistent water supply  would have been  annoying and inconvenient  this isnt a case  
where the consumer  had no hot water or heating at all.
BGs already paid Mr B £155.66  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
by its delay and poor service for the relevant period.  Mr Bs now confirmed  hes received that 
amount. Thats  a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience hes detailed.  There's no basis for me to award  any more compensation than 
BGs already paid.  
Also, there's no basis for me to say BG must  refund the remaining central  heating  premium 
for the policy. Mr B has had the benefit  of cover during  that time whether or not BG 
misdiagnosed a problem.
Mr B wants  BG to investigate  how the error occurred and tell him. Under our rules we dont 
have the power  to tell a business  how to conduct its internal procedures. So I cant  say it 
must investigate, take any appropriate disciplinary  steps and inform  Mr B of the outcome, 
even if I thought it should. However,  BG has already told Mr B it had fed back  to the 
manager of the engineers who misdiagnosed the cause of the problem. 
Our investigator correctly  explained why we cant look at BGs policy  on the sale of power  
flushes to consumers.  From the evidence Ive seen theres nothing to suggest the 
misdiagnosis was motivated by sales targets  the engineers may have, if any.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2000872