K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a debt he was being  chased for that related to someone else.
Mr K says Bank of Scotlands actions caused  him loss. 
background 
Bank of Scotland were  chasing a debt which they thought belonged to Mr K. The debt was in 
fact against someone  else who had the same name as Mr K but a different spelling. The 
debt was being chased at his address.
When Mr K started receiving letters from Bank of Scotland, he got in touch  with them  to 
explain that he wasnt responsible for the debt.  But he continued to receive letters and some 
time after that, default information was placed  on his credit file, despite Bank of Scotland 
confirming the debt wasnt his. 
Eventually the debt was sold on to another company who continued  to chase Mr K. This led 
to a county court judgment being  obtained  against  him and further adverse information being 
placed on his credit file. The complaint about the other company is being  dealt  with 
separately by this service.  
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint against Bank of Scotland and said it should be 
upheld. She noted  that Bank  of Scotland had offered Mr K £500  in compensation for their 
actions and said she thought this was adequate.  Bank of Scotland  have also offered Mr K 
£90 to cover  the cost of the credit  reports he has paid for. 
I provisionally considered  Mr Ks complaint  and informed  the parties that I thought  it wasnt 
one this service couldnt look at because Mr K wasnt an eligible complainant. This was 
because he wasnt a customer  or potential customer of Bank  of Scotland  when he was being 
chased for the other persons debt. And there were no exceptions that allowed us to 
consider Mr Ks complaint such as an activity being one that applied here. I then 
reconsidered my position  having noted  that some of the correspondence Bank of Scotland 
sent Mr K in 2016  appeared to be addressed to him and not the other  person. Because of 
that, I concluded it was possible he couldve thought he was being chased  for a debt directly, 
rather than for the debt of another. Consequently I concluded this was a complaint that fell 
within our rules.  
Because of this I went on to think about  the merits of Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, I 
agreed that Bank of Scotland shouldve done more to (i) prevent a default being applied  to 
his credit file when he told them the debt wasnt his and (ii) to remove it in a more  timely 
manner. Bank of Scotland offered to pay Mr K £590  to compensate  him for this. I thought 
this was adequate. 
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. Bank of Scotland  havent  commented on my provisional  
findings but have said they remain prepared to pay Mr K the £590 they have  offered him. Mr 
K has asked  for a final decision  so Ive determined this complaint in my findings  below.
Ref: DRN26791422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mr Ks complaint should be upheld for the same reasons  reached  by our investigator  and as 
set out in my second provisional view.
Bank of Scotland accept that they did something  wrong so theyve offered Mr K £590  to 
compensate him for this. But Mr K doesnt feel this goes far enough. I dont agree. The 
default appeared on his credit file for a similar  duration to the county court judgment (CCJ) 
obtained against him by another company. A CCJ would have had more of an impact  on his 
ability to obtain  credit, so I cant say that what Bank  of Scotland  did in isolation led to the 
losses he says he suffered.
As Mr K will know, Ive now decided his complaint against the other company who bought 
the debt from Bank of Scotland and addressed the question of his losses  in that decision. So 
I wont be commenting any further  on that in this decision.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint  against  Bank  of Scotland  Plc and 
direct them to pay Mr K £500 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019. 
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2679142