K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about work carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited under his 
Home Emergency insurance  policy.
background
In May 2018, Mr K called British Gas because of a leak at his property and waste  water was 
rising from the kitchen sink whenever  the upstairs toilet  was flushed.
British Gas engineer  cleared a blockage,  but they said there was a possibly a further 
blockage in the pipe. They recommended a CCTV survey be carried out to check  for this, but 
they were unable to carry out the survey  that day.
Mr K said his tenant reported the problem had returned the next day. He booked a priority  
appointment for an engineer to attend at a specific time, but British Gas didnt attend until 
later, after Mr Ks tenant had chased  them. Mr Ks tenant said by this time water  was coming 
out from under the kitchen sink.
A second engineer attended the property. They inspected a manhole in the propertys 
garden and found there were wipes blocking the pipework. The blockage  was removed but 
Mr K said the water  leaking out from under the sink caused damage to the walls, kitchen 
units and flooring. Mr K says this has cost around £560 to repair.
Mr K felt the first engineer  should  have done  the work to clear the blockage  as this wouldve 
identified the root cause of the issue  and the work  he did do exacerbated the internal 
damage. He also said the damage caused leading up to the second visit was worse due to 
British Gas not turning up when they said they would.
British Gas said the first engineer restored flow, which is what  Mr K was covered for under 
his policy. They also said Mr Ks tenant  continued  to use the facilities  after the first 
engineers visit and this caused the water  damage. They said this was a consequential loss 
and wouldnt  be covered under Mr Ks policy. However, they acknowledged  there  had been  
delays in an engineer attending the property and have  since offered £70 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused and to waive the excess fee of £60.
Mr K was unhappy British  Gas response and brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr Ks complaint. He felt British  Gas offer of 
compensation and waiving  the excess fee was fair for the delays in sending out the second  
engineer. But he felt the engineer only restored flow temporarily to the property and should 
have made  Mr Ks tenant aware there could potentially be further blockages. He said 
British Gas shouldve  told them  to avoid using the facilities to prevent further issues  and 
felt they should cover  the cost of the water  damage  in the property.
British Gas didnt  agree with our investigator.  They said the first engineer had told Mr Ks 
tenant their findings  and had recommended a CCTV survey. They said as the engineer had 
restored flow, there would  have been no need to investigate  further  as the blockage  was 
removed.
The complaint then passed to me.
Ref: DRN25896382I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 22 June 2020. In my provisional findings 
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document  and I can see it says British Gas will cover  unblocking and
repairing drains and waste pipes to restore flow.
The notes from the first engineers visit say they removed  a blockage in the toilet. Mr Ks
tenant provided testimony to our investigator and said when the first engineer had completed
the work,  he flushed  the toilet and no water  was rising from the sink downstairs.  So Im
satisfied flow was restored by the first engineer and it met the terms of the policy. The
engineer also said they suspected there was something stuck  in the pipe and recommended
a CCTV survey.
Mr Ks tenant said the problems begun to happen again the next morning  when the toilet
was used, but water begun to come out from under the sink when it was used  again  later
that day.
The second  engineers notes from the visit said that the wipes being flushed down the toilet
had caused the blockage  and had caused  toilet waste  and sewage  to back  up in kitchen,
and that the pipe was leaking as a result. So considering the information available  I think  the
damage was caused by the pipe under the sink leaking  and not because  of anything the
first engineer  did. The first engineer restored flow and recommended a CCTV survey. The
issues begun to reoccur early the next day, so Mr Ks tenant was aware of the issues  but
continued to use the toilet  so I think this contributed to them.
British Gas provided system notes that show the appointment was booked  for around 9pm,
but their engineer didnt attend the property until around an hour later. Given  the situation
with water coming out from under the sink, I appreciate the urgency of Mr Ks tenant, but he
has said the water begun to come  out from under the sink when the toilet  was used earlier  in
the evening, around a few hours  before British Gas were due to attend. So, I dont think
British Gas can be held responsible for this.
British Gas have  acknowledged there have been delays however, and considering  the
information available to me, I think their offer of £70 compensation and to waive the £60
excess fee, is reasonable as it fairly  reflects the inconvenience Mr K has suffered.
Mr K and British Gas didnt provide further comments or points.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have no additional information or comments from either party, my findings  remain  
unchanged from my provisional  decision.  So, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN25896383My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2589638