K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC havent  paid the full cost to 
repair his car under  his mechanical breakdown insurance policy.  
background
Mr Cs car broke down and was taken to a garage  for repair.  The garage spoke with Amtrust 
and said the water pump was leaking and needed  replacing. Because  of the leak water had 
got onto the cam belt so the garage  said the cam belt and tensioner also needed to be 
replaced. 
Amtrust agreed to cover the cost of replacing the water pump and cam belt but not the 
tensioner. Amtrust said this was because the cam belt and been contaminated so needed 
replacing. But because  the tensioner could be cleaned it hadnt suffered a breakdown  as 
defined in the policy. Mr C complained,  he said you always change  the cam belt and 
tensioner at the same  time. He also said the cam belt hadnt suffered a breakdown as 
defined in the policy so if Amtrust had paid for the cam belt they should also pay for the 
tensioner. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that while  its 
good practice to change  the cam belt and tensioner  at the same  time, it wasnt essential  in 
this case. Mr C disagreed,  he said you always change the cam belt and tensioner at the 
same time. He also said if Amtrust agreed  the cam belt had suffered a mechanical 
breakdown then surely  the tensioner had too. 
Because Mr C disagreed  the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy  covers him for the mechanical and electrical breakdown of parts, including  the 
labour to fit them. The policy also lists which parts arent covered under  the policy.  The part 
which failed on Mr Cs car was the water  pump.  Amtrust agreed the water pump was 
covered and also paid for the cam belt, as it had been contaminated from the leaking water  
pump. But as the tensioner could be cleaned Amtrust said it hadnt suffered a breakdown  as 
defined by the policy. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy define  breakdown as the sudden  and unexpected  
failure of a Component arising from any permanent  mechanical or electrical defect, (for a 
reason other than Wear  and Tear, normal deterioration or negligence) causing a sudden  
stoppage of its function, necessitating immediate repair or replacement of the Component 
before normal operation  can be resumed.
As the cam belt had been contaminated  Amtrust  said it met the policy terms of a breakdown.  
While Mr C disputes the cam belt suffered a breakdown, as defined in the policy, I see no 
reason to interfere  with Amtrusts decision to cover  it. I will therefore  only be looking at 
whether the tensioner should  also be covered. 
Ref: DRN25668962Mr C said you always change the cam belt and tensioner together and that the repairing 
garage wouldnt guarantee the work if the tensioner wasnt replaced. Hes also said you 
always change both parts  together and as Amtrust paid for the cam belt they should  also pay 
for the tensioner.  From  the information provided  there isnt anything  to suggest  the tensioner 
suffered a breakdown as defined in the policy. Ive therefore looked at whether its fair and 
reasonable for Amtrust  to pay for them as they paid for the cam belt. 
A manufacturing garage said its good industry  practice to replace the two parts  together, but 
its not essential. So I can understand why Mr C says they need to be done  together.  But its 
not fair and reasonable to ask Amtrust to cover the cost of something which doesnt need 
replacing, just because its good  industry practice  to do it. Because  of this Im satisfied  
Amtrust have acted fairly and reasonably by covering the cost of the cam belt and not the 
tensioner. I therefore  wont be telling them to do anymore.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2566896