K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund  the £548.69 payment that she made 
from her account. Ms P thought she was making a payment to a genuine company but she 
later reported it as a scam. Shes also unhappy  with the incorrect advice she was given by 
Barclays and believes she should be fully compensated for this. 
background
On 20 August 2015 Ms P made a Single Euro Payment Area Credit  Transfer of £548.69 to 
what she thought  was a genuine company.  On 26 August 2015, Ms C contacted Barclays  to 
ask for the payment  to be recalled as she believed she had been scammed.  
When she contacted  Barclays Ms P says she was originally told the money  hadnt  yet 
debited her account so the recall could be made and her money  would be recovered. But 
she was later told she had been  given the wrong  information. 
Barclays, in its final response, confirmed it did attempt to recall the funds  as soon as Ms P 
notified them  of the scam,  but the receiving bank confirmed the payment had already been 
completed. 
As recognition for the poor customer service and incorrect information it provided to Ms P, 
Barclays offered £95 in compensation which included a refund of the £20 fee she was 
initially charged to attempt to recall the payment. Barclays also offered a further £25 for 
incorrectly telling Ms P when the payment had been  chased. Ms P rejected both offers of 
compensation. The £25 was re-debited  from Ms Ps account but the £95 wasnt, as Ms P 
had already utilised the funds, not realising it was a compensation payment.
Our adjudicator reviewed  Ms Ps complaint but didnt think  Barclays had made an error  by 
debiting Ms Ps account. She also concluded  that at the time of making the payment  Ms P 
was told:
-that there wouldnt be any guarantee that the funds would be recalled;
-that there wasnt a timescale for the recall;
-there could be an exchange  rate loss or possible shortfall;  and 
-there would  be a charge of £20. 
Whilst she agreed that Barclays hadnt  handled things well, she felt the compensation offer 
already made was fair in the circumstances. She concluded Barclays didnt need  to refund 
the payment Ms P had authorised to be debited from her account.
Ms P disagreed. She felt Barclays had added to her suffering by not contacting her when the 
funds were not recoverable. If she had known earlier that the recall hadnt been  successful  
she couldve  pursued the matter by using her legal expenses cover.  She said shes now 
unable to do this.
As Ms P didnt agree  with our initial findings  the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN21199722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont think Barclays made an error in allowing the transfer to leave Ms Ps 
account in the first instance. And I think it did enough to try and recover  the funds from the 
beneficiary bank. I do agree that it made errors  when handling the complaint but I think the 
£120 already offered is fair compensation in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
Ms P doesnt dispute authorising the payment in the first instance and Barclays had an 
obligation to follow her instructions. Considering the date of the payment  and the account 
activity I dont think there was anything  that did or ought to have concerned Barclays  about  
this payment in the first instance.
recovery of the funds 
The payment was made on 20 August  and Ms P contacted Barclays  on 26 August to say 
she had been  scammed. Whilst its possible to cancel or recall a transfer- by sending  a 
cancellation notice  - this needs to be at some  point between the transfer  being  accepted  and 
it being actioned. If its too late to cancel, an attempt to recall  the money can be made but if 
the money has already reached  its destination  this will normally require co-operation from 
the recipient of the money.  And the actions of the recipient bank or the recipient are not 
something we can consider here.
As Ive said once the payment is completed there isnt much Barclays  could do, but we 
would still expect a bank to help its customers recover funds where it can. And here Im 
persuaded Barclays did all they could. Whilst Ms P may not have been aware Barclays  had 
taken any action, Im persuaded they did. 
By the time Ms P contacted Barclays to notify  them of the scam, the payment had already 
reached its destination account.  Barclays  also made several attempts to chase a response 
from the receiving bank. On 8 September the receiving bank confirmed the payment had 
been completed. 
impact of the delay  in updating Ms P
Ive also considered Ms Ps comments about  the impact of the delay in notifying her about  
the failed recall of her funds. Having done  so, Im not persuaded that Barclays  incorrect 
advice is what caused the loss here. Ms P was scammed and authorised this payment to be 
debited from her account. Barclays followed her instructions. The payment  couldnt be 
recovered here and Barclays  advice to Ms P didnt change that fact. 
Ms P has said that she would have taken a different course of action had she known earlier  
that Barclays hadnt been able to recover her money. And I appreciate the failure  to update  
her would have  been  frustrating. But I havent seen any evidence  that she couldnt take the 
further action  she has mentioned,  when she did get the correct information from Barclays. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, overall  Im not persuaded Ms P would have done anything  
different even if she had found out earlier that the recovery of her funds  through  Barclays 
wasnt possible. So Im not persuaded thats  Barclays actions did prevent her from taking her 
own action to recover her funds or that Barclays add to her losses in anyway.
Ref: DRN21199723compensation offered 
I can see that Barclays didnt keep Ms P up to date and I appreciate  this must have been 
frustrating for Ms P. Barclays has offered a total of £120 in compensation for this, £95 of 
which has already  been paid. I think this is a fair offer of compensation in the circumstances. 
As Ive said I dont think Barclays actions contributed  to any further loss. Barclays has told us 
that the offer of £25 compensation still stands so I will leave it with Ms P if she wishes to 
accept this now. 
I do empathise with Ms Ps situation  and I appreciate this isnt the outcome she was hoping  
for. But after carefully considering everything available  to me, I dont think  Barclay  has 
caused or added  to Ms Ps losses and I think it did enough to try and recover the funds in a 
timely manner once they were notified  of the scam. 
my final decision
As Ive set out above I dont uphold  Ms Ps complaint against  Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2119972