K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss P complained about  Elite Insurance Company Limited (has ceased  writing 
new business but continues to fulfil existing contracts of insurance), because it wouldnt 
reimburse all of their costs incurred for living elsewhere whilst it repaired their water  
damaged home.
background
There was a leak at Mr G and Miss Ps home  on 30 June 2017.  They  notified Elite and, on 
3 July 2017, they appointed a loss assessor  to act on their behalf.
On 4 July Elite said Mr G and Miss P should  look for bed and breakfast type 
accommodation until it had decided what period the home would likely be uninhabitable for.
Elites loss adjuster  visited  the property on 6 July 2017. He asked that Elite urgently assist 
with arranging alternative accommodation for the family as it wouldnt be possible for them to 
stay there  once work commenced to strip the property.
On 7 July Elite explained that it doesnt have contractors in place to arrange 
accommodation. It said Mr G and Miss P would  have  to find somewhere on their own and 
that their home would likely be uninhabitable for about four weeks. The loss assessor noted 
the same  day that the strip-out work  would likely  be well under  way by 14 July 2017.
In fact the strip-out contractor didnt  attend until 14 July, then again  briefly on 17 July whilst 
advising itd return again later that week.
Between 19 and 30 July 2017 (11 nights) Mr G and Miss P, along with their child, went  on an 
all-inclusive holiday.  They spoke to Elite during that time and asked that it make a 
contribution towards  their costs. They said they didnt expect to receive everything back but 
as theyd had to be out of their house,  and booking a holiday had been  their only option,  they 
should reasonably get some level of reimbursement.
Elite said it would consider the situation. Initially it said it would offer £100  per night. But later 
it said it would pay based on a nightly rate of £170 (£145 towards room costs  and £25 as a 
food allowance).  The loss assessor noted that Mr G and Miss P had paid £2,076.60 for their 
holiday (£188.78  per night). He told Elite it had left them to arrange finding  somewhere else 
to live without offering any advice as to what theyd likely receive in reimbursement.  He said 
theyd tried finding local hotels but theyd quickly realised that the fastest and cheapest  
option [for finding  somewhere to stay] was to book a 10-day  package holiday.
The assessor noted that the daily cost for the holiday fell far below the average amount 
allowed for in the policy  of £300  per night.  He also noted that when  the couple had stayed in 
a UK hotel following their return  from holiday,  Elite had paid for this at a rate of £165 per 
night, plus £25 per day for extra food costs. In his view it was only fair then that it pay for the 
full cost incurred  to the family in taking  the holiday (as this was a comparable  figure  and well 
within that allowed  by the policy). Elite didnt agree to pay any more  and Mr G and Miss P, 
represented by the loss assessor, complained to this service.
Our investigator felt Elites settlement hadnt  been  unfair. He noted the loss assessor had 
been involved before  the holiday commenced  and felt clarification could  have been  sought 
from Elite before the family went away as to what it would be prepared to pay. But he said if 
Ref: DRN29946642Mr G and Miss P had evidence that their accommodation searches had resulted only in more 
expensive alternatives  to the holiday, hed consider that.
The loss assessor  responded  explaining further what  Mr G and Miss P had reportedly found  
and been faced with when  trying  to find somewhere to stay. But no proof to support this was 
provided. He said the policy covers  the reasonable and necessary cost of staying elsewhere 
which, for Mr G and Miss P, had been  £2,076.60, £481.60 more  than that offered by Elite 
(£1,595) discounting the allowance it had given for food (the food allowance  brought  the total 
up to £1,870, leaving a difference of £206.60).
The complaint was passed  to me. I wasnt minded to uphold it and said, provisionally;
I dont think Elite has acted unfairly  in this instance.  However, my reasoning differs  from that 
set out by our investigator, so Im issuing a provisional decision.
Elite didnt assist Mr G and Miss P in respect of finding somewhere else to live. But the 
policy didnt give it any obligation  to do so. Rather than requiring Elite to find alternative  
accommodation for its policyholders  the policy states that Elite will pay for the reasonable 
and necessary costs  for alternative  accommodation  for you and your family,  which  we have  
agreed with you before  you pay.
So whilst I appreciate  that Mr G and Miss P found the process of finding somewhere else to 
stay frustrating and time consuming, Im not persuaded that upset was caused by any failure 
of Elite.  And nor am I persuaded that the only reasonable answer they could find to the 
problem of where to stay was to book an all-inclusive holiday abroad. In my experience, 
even at short notice,  and accepting for a moment that there  were  no suitable  and reasonably 
priced local hotels  available, there  are often reasonably priced UK holiday lets available.
Despite the fact that the cost for alternative accommodation wasnt  agreed before it was paid 
for by Mr G and Miss P, as the policy requires, Elite did agree to make a payment. Ive 
considered then whether its settlement, totalling £1,870 (including a food allowance), is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Whilst the policy does  set a limit for staying elsewhere in terms of what Elite will pay for 
during one period of cover, that doesnt mean that any cost that fall within that sum 
reasonably need to be paid. In considering what is reasonable its important to look at what  
cost was incurred  and on what basis.
The cost incurred by Mr G and Miss P for the holiday  included flights. Given  that Im not 
satisfied that flying  abroad  was a reasonable remedy to the problem of finding somewhere to 
stay, I wouldnt expect  Elite to contribute towards flight  costs.
Im also mindful that the cost Mr G and Miss P paid for staying elsewhere  was based on the 
board type being all-inclusive. In other words all meals are catered for. I wouldnt expect an 
insurer to pay for all meals that an insured eats whilst staying elsewhere. Rather the 
allowance an insurer is expected to pay in this sort of situation  is based on it covering the 
likely extra costs of a policyholder who is staying in accommodation unlike their home 
(compared to what they would have paid at home).  Holidays with an all-inclusive board 
type are often more  expensive than self-catering or part-board ones. So if Mr G and Miss P 
had booked on a different  board basis and bought  some of their own food, theyd have likely 
incurred less cost for the holiday booking whilst still being entitled  to an allowance  in respect 
of their additional costs  for food.
Ref: DRN29946643So Im satisfied that Mr G and Miss Ps cost incurred, of £2,076.60, factored in flights  and an 
all-inclusive board type that I wouldnt reasonably expect Elite to have to pay. I think its 
reasonable to say, based on my general  experience of holiday  costs, that the flights and 
board type likely equate to more than £200  of the overall cost of the holiday. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that Elites settlement of £1,870, being  only £206.60 short  of the cost Mr G and 
Miss P incurred, is fair and reasonable and in line with the policy  term obliging it to pay 
reasonable and necessary costs.
Elite didnt respond. The loss assessor,  for Mr G and Miss P said:
The tone and wording  of the decision shows it to be discriminatory.
The discrimination is due to the type of accommodation in question which means that, in 
the assessors view,  I likely allowed an instinctual response to influence  my findings.
Elites policy  condition  that costs are agreed prior to them being incurred is not 
reasonable.
The sum sought is clearly reasonable, as the policy wording requires it to be, because it 
is a sum Elite has already paid in relation to UK alternative accommodation  (utilised 
when the family returned from abroad).
Theres no good reason, in the assessors view, to treat the two periods/costs differently. 
To do so can only result from an instinctual reaction which ignores logic and fairness.
My note on finding UK accommodation  is unfair because  that is my recollection of my 
experience which  doesnt compare to the situation Mr D and Miss P were  in.
All-inclusive in holiday terms doesnt mean all food is paid for, it merely means a cheap 
and repetitive breakfast and evening meal  are supplied.
Flight  costs are travel and travel is allowed under the policy,  therefore making any 
restriction regarding flights being  taken isnt fair.
Mr D and Miss P are offended by my comment I am not persuaded that the only 
reasonable answer they could find to the problem was. They take this to mean I dont 
believe them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr D and Miss P that I havent  discriminated against them because they 
booked a holiday. I had to take into account the nature of the accommodation  in order to 
decide if Elites settlement  of their costs  had been fair. But I didnt  discount  their claim merely 
because the accommodation in question  was in the form of a holiday.
Whether Elites term about  pre-agreement is reasonable or not is of little relevance here. 
Thats because Elite ignored the term and made  a payment regardless.
It is necessary for me to consider the costs in dispute on their own merits. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to say Elite has paid £X for one stay, at a different time and in a different place 
and so should do so for this stay too. That would be similar to saying £X was paid for one 
stolen gold ring so it should be paid for the other,  without considering  whether the other is of 
the same  type,  quality  or value.  The loss for the second period having been deemed  
reasonable by Elite,  doesnt logically dictate  that the earlier costs should be seen in the 
same light without assessing independently  if they themselves are reasonable. 
Ref: DRN29946644Whilst I appreciate that Mr D and Miss P were  under a lot of pressure to find somewhere to 
live, my note about finding UK accommodation  was made to illustrate the fact that finding 
such is not a particularly difficult task. Finding such, in my experience, is no more difficult  
than finding and booking a non-UK  holiday  as Mr D and Miss P did and were able to do, 
even in the trying circumstances they were experiencing. 
I disagree with the assessors definition of all-inclusive . What  he says is more akin, in my 
experience, to half-board . 
Travel costs are covered  and theres  no definition for that or specific  exclusion for flights. 
The issue  comes down  again though to one of what is reasonable. In some cases paying  for 
train journeys or taxi fares, for example,  might  be seen  as reasonable. But what I had to look 
at here was whether the overall price Elite had reimbursed for the costs  Mr D and Miss P 
had incurred was reasonable. Those  costs  included flights and I remain  of the view that 
taking the family abroad, which necessitated  the flights, wasnt the only reasonable option 
available to Mr D and Miss P. It was what they chose to do and what  they felt and believed 
was their only option, but that doesnt mean  it was reasonable.  
Im sorry  if Mr D and Miss P are offended  in any way by my findings. I can assure  them that I 
havent discriminated against them in any way. Nor do my findings reflect any disbelief on 
my part as to what theyve recounted. However, with regret for any further disappointment 
this will bring Mr D and Miss P, their objections havent persuaded me that my provisional 
findings were wrong and my decision on their complaint hasnt changed. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Elite Insurance Company 
Limited (has ceased writing new business  but continues  to fulfil existing contracts of 
insurance).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2994664