K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC)  handled a claim 
he made under a NHBC Buildmark warranty and insurance cover.
background
There is a detailed history  to the problem Mr M has experienced  with his property. NHBC 
didnt build the property rather it provided insurance  cover where  it will, in certain 
circumstances, step in and repair certain damage  and defects.
In summary,  water  has been  getting into Mr Ms apartment and part of the problem lies with 
the apartment above Mr Ms. It is also apparent  that water has been  coming  in around some 
windows caused  by shrinkage in the timber frames.
Repairs have taken place at various  points to try and prevent water  ingress although  NHBC 
hasnt replaced  the warped windows as this was due to shrinking timber frames  which  arent 
covered by the building  warranty. It has though  carried  out work to refit and reseal the 
frames. 
More recently a report suggests that cladding on the building  might be causing water 
ingress. But as cladding isnt a specified covered part under the policy  NHBC didnt 
investigate or repair  any further. NHBC also discovered a breach  in the window sill trim joint 
which needed to be resealed which NHBC agreed to do. Recognising the lengthy period 
involved, poor repairs at times, general  service  and poor communication,  NHBC has offered 
Mr M around  £2,550  compensation.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ms complaint  and thought  NHBC had not handled the 
claim very well at times,  and Mr M had the inconvenience of poor repairs and poor 
communication. She also considered  Mr M saying he had to take a job closer to home  to be 
around when repairs  were required and so took a pay reduction.  The investigator recognised 
that not all the defects  (e.g. window  frame shrinkage  and cladding) were  covered by the 
building warranty. She considered NHBC had fairly  reflected  the inconvenience with its 
compensation offer, noting it was Mr Ms decision to change jobs and the reality that only a 
small part of the property was affected.
The investigator gave  the parties an opportunity to reply and provide further information. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and in summary made several  points including;
NHBCs handling had been negligent,  incompetent and unprofessional
Continual delays  in responding
Poor standard of repairs
Reduced salary
NHBC has caused inconvenience and stress over four years, a major disruption in 
his life
NHBC should fix the cladding
He hasnt been paid anything by NHBC in relation to compensation and thinks  
£2,550 is inadequate  to reflect  what has happened and the hours he has put into 
communicating with NHBC and us. Mr M thinks a five-figure  sum is more  reflective.
As Mr M disagreed, he asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
Ref: DRN25502642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBCs policy covers  the full cost (if more than £1,000 indexed as defined in the policy)  of 
putting right physical damage  caused by a defect in specified parts of the property and 
common parts. And defect is defined as a breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement by 
the builder or anyone  employed or acting for him. 
The specified parts  covered by the policy do not cover window frames and limit cover for 
windows to double  or triple glazing  panes.  And even if a specified  part is mentioned as 
covered, the policy doesnt cover damage caused  by several matters  including  shrinkage.
There are two main areas of outstanding  damage  the window frames and outside  cladding. 
Window frames are not specified parts  and therefore not covered by the policy.  And indeed, 
the damage related to these was due to timber shrinkage, which  compromised the sealant 
and so left gaps that water could penetrate. So, Im satisfied  that the policy doesnt  cover this 
type of damage  and NHBCs re-sealing and offer to do so again is fair in the circumstances. 
Equally, the cladding above Mr Ms property, which has been identified  as a possible cause 
of the water  ingress,  isnt covered by the policy. If, as suggested,  the cladding is within the 
property above  Mr Ms, then he may be able to seek a remedy directly  with that property 
owner. But this is something he may need to take specific  advice about  from, for example, 
Citizens Advice Bureau or a solicitor.
I can appreciate Mr M has been  trying  to get a satisfactory resolution for a lengthy period, 
and hes had to do a lot of chasing  because of NHBCs failure to communicate  effectively. 
NHBC though has instructed investigations and tried to facilitate  repairs, some of them  
outside of the policy  terms and as a gesture of goodwill. However, NHBC has recognised its 
failings and poor service  during the period  and has made an offer of £2,550 compensation. 
But the reality of the situation is that damage as a result of shrinkage,  the window frames  
and the cladding are not specified  parts or causes covered by the NHBC policy.  From  
October 2017 NHBCs compensation offer has increased from £1,350 to its current  offer of 
£2,550 recognising that some work had been  poor and its communication less than 
satisfactory. It identified  that a split in the timber cladding above Mr Ms property was 
allowing water ingress,  but it wasnt covered by the policy. Having considered the policy I am 
satisfied that NHBC was entitled to refuse  a repair of the cladding.  But NHBC recognised 
that its contractor hadnt resealed a window but said it would arrange completion of this 
work. NHBC  also recognised that it hadnt  communicated well with Mr M and increased its 
compensation offer to £2,550.
Making a claim can be distressing and inconvenient and necessarily involves a policyholder 
having to invest  some time and effort in dealing with the insurer. This also includes the 
various agents appointed  by the insurer  to investigate, assess and determine whether  a 
claim is covered and what is required to put things right. Some claims are relatively 
straightforward and others not so. In this case the challenging factors were  that the original 
causal factor was traced to the property above Mr Ms and other related factors were  for 
parts (window frames) and causes  (shrinkage) not covered by the policy. 
Ref: DRN25502643However, NHBC accepts that its communication  and service was poor at times  and the 
impact of this was that Mr M had to persistently chase progress. He wasted time he 
shouldnt have had to above the ordinary vagaries of making a claim. And at times poor 
workmanship meant return  visits to carry out further work, again  impacting the time Mr M 
had to set aside to deal with NHBCs contractors. I am satisfied this warrants compensation 
and my view is that it has had a substantial to severe impact on Mr M. I say this because of 
the period the claim has been  ongoing and the persistent chasing hes done with NHBC. 
While Mr M may have  lost some enjoyment  with his property, the damage was confined to a 
small area and not so severe that he lost habitable use. Because  of the period involved, I am 
satisfied that NHBCs offer of £2,550 fairly  reflects the inconvenience, distress and 
frustration Mr M has experienced.
Where I disagree with Mr M, as did the investigator, is that Im not satisfied it was an 
unavoidable consequence  he had to change jobs and relocate closer  to home. He was a 
contractor when the leak was first discovered  working away  from home  for weeks at a time. 
It appears that he accommodated visits and repairs when  he was back  at home and 
communication was facilitated by usual means of telephony and email. Mr M hasnt provided 
enough evidence  to show that he had, in real terms, no other option but to take a lesser paid 
job closer to home because of NHBCs service. Im not making  an award  for financial loss as 
Im not satisfied loss from lower pay is directly linked to NHBCs claim service.
Mr M has provided three Statement of fitness to work documents,  which show  his GP has 
signed him off work because of stress. Mr M makes  the point that it has been a cumulative 
effect of the poor service  from NHBC over the period of his claim. The investigator  explained  
to him there was insufficient information to show the illness  diagnosed in September  2019  
was a direct  consequence of any failures by NHBC.  I agree with the investigator and Im not 
satisfied it would be fair to increase compensation based on Mr M being signed-off as unfit to 
work.  
my final decision
National House-Building Council has made an offer to pay Mr M £2,550. I conclude  that such  
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that NHBC should pay 
Mr M £2,550.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2550264