K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about an offer of compensation for a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Mr F says the offer made by Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) doesnt properly compensate him.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to FICL in this decision.
background
Mr F opened a store  card account  in 1986,  at the same time he was sold a PPI policy.
In 2018 Mr F complained  to FICL about  the sale of the PPI. FICL upheld  Mr Fs complaint. 
But it held very little information  about  Mr Fs store card account. FICL had records  of only 
one premium paid by Mr F. This was for £4.34 in May 1990.
FICL offered to refund  this premium plus interest,  its total offer was for £12.86.
Unhappy with FICLs offer Mr F asked us to step in.
Following our involvement FICL made  Mr F a new offer of £700 to compensate him for the 
mis-sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the new offer from FICL  was fair. Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings.  He recalled using the store card regularly while  the account was open  
and he didnt think the new offer took this into account. Mr Fs representative told us that 
other PPI complaints  that had been upheld received more compensation.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
When a business  compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store  card, wed normally  
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed  then 
expect the business to compensate the consumer for the extra they paid because of the PPI. 
But in order to do this a business  needs  to know the actual amounts the consumer spent on 
the store card as the PPI premiums are linked to the outstanding monthly balance.
FICL isnt able to follow this approach.  It hasnt  got many records  of Mr Fs account. I dont 
find this surprising as the account was opened  in 1986 and has been  closed since  1990.
When Mr F first complained, FICL was only able to find one PPI premium  of £4.34 which    
Mr F was charged in May 1990. Generally, where  FICL only has records of one premium it 
means that was the last PPI premium  charged. FICL has told us that the account was closed 
in 1990 and written off in September 1992. FICL  offered  to repay  this one premium with 
interest.
Ref: DRN27406612We didnt think that was fair as its likely Mr F was charged other premiums before           
May 1990, and FICL hadnt allowed for that.
Where there is limited information about an account,  and the premiums  a consumer has 
been charged, wed expect a business to make reasonable  assumptions  based on 
information it does  have. In Mr Fs case there is very little known  data.
So FICL has looked at other accounts where  it does have a full set of information. And its 
looked at the levels  of compensation it has paid to consumers where its been able to work 
out the amount it owes them accurately.
Using this information  FICL has looked at how much Mr F paid for PPI and how long he had 
his PPI policy for and has made him a new offer of £700.
Based on the very limited  information available about how long Mr F had his PPI policy and 
what it might  have  cost him, I think  FICLs approach is a fair way to compensate  Mr F in the 
absence of more  detailed information.
I have thought about what Mr F has told us about  his spending habits  during the time the PPI 
was attached to his account. But I have to take into account that over the course of 25 years 
or more  memories do fade. And I dont think it would be fair for me to ask FICL to increase 
its offer without more  compelling evidence.
I also note Mr Fs representative has told us of other PPI awards which were higher. But PPI 
compensation varies  greatly depending on many  factors. For example the type of account it 
was attached to, how the premiums were paid,  the level of cover,  how long the PPI was in 
force, are all factors that would affect the level of compensation  required to put a consumer 
in the position theyd  be in if the PPI wasnt  sold.
Taking into account the circumstances, what we do know about Mr Fs store  card and the 
lack of evidence  or more  data, I think FICLs  offer of £700 is fair.  
Mr Fs representative  has also told us that Mr F wasnt aware the PPI was on his account 
and if he had known  hed have made claims on the policy  when it was in force. But the PPI 
premiums wouldve appeared on Mr Fs statements at the time as purchases. So he should 
reasonably have known it was there. And itd be for Mr F to check  what  insurance he had in 
place if he became unable to work.
Mr F may be able to make a backdated claim for time he was unable to work, but hed likely 
need to provide evidence  to the insurer  to do so. He should also be aware  that if a 
backdated claim were successful the insurer would likely deduct  the £700  compensation for 
the mis-sale of the PPI from any payment due. And wed think  that was fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Financial Insurance Company Limiteds  offer of £700 is fair and I 
make no further award against it.
Ref: DRN27406613Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740661