K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that in 2017 Ageas Insurance Limited increased his commercial motor 
insurance premium after it factored in a claim to the premium calculation  that is said it hadnt 
previously been  told about.
background
In February 2013  Mr C approached an insurance intermediary for a commercial  motor 
insurance policy. A policy was set up and it was underwritten by Ageas. The policy renewed 
each of the following three years and all with Ageas as the underwriter. When  the 2017 
renewal was due, a new application form was completed and, on it, only one claim was 
declared  a fault claim in May 2013.
However, shortly after renewal in 2017 Ageas checked an industry database  and discovered  
that Mr C was recorded as having  other  claims;  one in May 2015 and another in 
August 2015.  Both were  recorded as closed and settled, but neither had been  declared on 
the application form. The claims had both been recorded by Ageas.
Ageas recalculated Mr Cs premium  based on him having made two claims within  the last 
three years. The premium  increased  by £127.89,  along with a £10 administration  fee, which  
Ageas debited from Mr Cs bank account. 
In the meantime, Mr C provided evidence that one of the claims was no-fault. The premium 
was recalculated again using this information. It reduced the amount Ageas would have 
charged for the policy by £14.67. This was refunded  to Mr Cs bank account.
Ageas has provided  us with the information  it has about these two claims from its own 
database  both were  reported to it by third party insurers.  In both cases it has provided its 
notes of what it was told by the other  insurer and its conversations with Mr C. The May 2015 
claim it had determined was no-fault on Mr Cs part. In relation to the second claim, Mr Cs 
vehicle was inspected  alongside photographs of the third party vehicle, and it was decided 
that the claim would  be recorded as fault on Mr Cs part. Mr C was told about  Ageas 
decision at the time.
Mr C wasnt happy about the increase in premium  and complained to Ageas. When  it didnt 
change its position,  he referred his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators  
considered the complaint. He concluded  that as the claims that Ageas had altered the 
premium to reflect had been made on an Ageas policy,  it had already known about those 
claims when the application  was received. As such, when it had accepted  the application 
and set the premium,  it had done  so in the knowledge of the claims. The adjudicator  
recommended that Ageas  refund the additional premium and pay Mr C £50 for the 
inconvenience and upset the mistake  had caused  him.
Ageas didnt accept  the adjudicators view. It said that when it was presented with the 
application it checked the databases it subscribes to and discovered discrepancies  with the 
information presented  to it. Mr C was aware of both incidents and didnt tell the intermediary 
about them  when  it arranged a new policy for him. It asked that the complaint be passed to 
an ombudsman for consideration 
After the complaint was passed to me, I requested some further information from Ageas. It 
confirmed that the broker  had accepted the policy application under  delegated authority  it 
Ref: DRN22043472was acting on behalf of Ageas when it did so. It also confirmed  that the broker  would have  
had access to Ageas  claims records and those of the industry database Ageas later 
checked the application against.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Ageas  used to change the premium  to Mr Cs complaint was available  to it 
and the intermediary when the application for insurance was made.  Whilst Mr C should have 
declared the claims when  he was asked, the fact that he didnt, doesnt negate Ageas 
existing knowledge  of those claims. 
I note that Ageas has said that its claims database isnt sophisticated  enough for the claims 
to have been flagged when a quote  was asked  for. That may be the case, but that doesnt 
mean that Ageas didnt have corporate  knowledge  of those claims.
As such,  I am satisfied that when Ageas initially quoted for the policy  it did so in the 
knowledge of the previous claims. Therefore, the claims not being factored into the premium  
calculation was Ageas error. It wasnt appropriate,  given that Mr C had accepted the offer,  
paid his premium and the policy had commenced, for Ageas to recalculate the premium  in 
the circumstances. As such, Ageas should refund the additional  premium  charged plus 
interest from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Mr C was clearly  annoyed  about  the additional premium being  charged and at the 
inconvenience he was put to in order to correct Ageas understanding  of the claims. I agree 
with our adjudicator  that it would be appropriate for Ageas  to acknowledge this 
inconvenience and upset by paying  him £50.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ageas  Insurance Limited to:
refund  the additional premium;
add interest* to that refund at 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and 
pay Mr C £50 for the inconvenience  it caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
income tax from any interest,  it should  provide a certificate Mr C can use to claim a refund 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if approrpiate.
Ref: DRN2204347