K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a Select Plus 
account in September 2005.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint already and they didnt think  
that Lloyds had mis-sold  the Select Plus account.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding            
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs H were  given  a choice in taking the 
packaged account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened having weighed up what both 
Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds have been able to provide me with.  
  
Mr and Mrs Hs account was upgraded to a fee paying Select Plus account from a free one 
theyd had for some time. So I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve known Lloyds  did free accounts 
and that they couldve  had one of those if thats what they really  wanted. Mr and Mrs H have 
said that they upgraded in branch and were  advised to take out the Select Plus account as 
they were already paying for Sentinel Card  protection  separately and the account  came with 
this benefit. Mr and Mrs H say that they were also told they would receive  higher interest rate 
on their credit balances if they held this account.
From what  I can see it is more likely  than not that the account was upgraded online and 
therefore was done without the presence of Lloyds staff. But even if Mr and Mrs H discussed 
the account in branch before upgrading the account  themselves online, Sentinel Card 
Protection and better  interest rates on credit balances were  benefits of the account, so what 
they were told was correct.  As such, I cant say that the Select  Plus account was mis-sold if 
they were told this. So overall I think that Mr and Mrs H were given a fair choice in taking out 
the Select Plus account.
As the sale took place online Lloyds did not need  to ensure that the account  was right for Mr 
and Mrs H based on their circumstances at the time it was taken out. Instead Lloyds had to 
provide Mr and Mrs H with enough  information  to allow them  to do this for themselves.
I want to start by saying  that I think its likely Mr and Mrs H wouldve seen information about 
most, if not all, of the benefits on the account before they took it out, in order  to make it 
appear as appealing as possible. And the best way to have done this wouldve been by 
showing them what theyd get for the monthly  fee. 
Ref: DRN28486422As Mr and Mrs H chose  to take the account,  I can only assume that it included something 
that interested them. The account included mobile  phone insurance and breakdown cover.  
Mr and Mrs H registered a number  of handsets for the mobile  phone  insurance so this may 
have been a benefit that interested them. I note Mr and Mrs Hs comments  in relation to the 
excess on the mobile phone insurance, but excesses are a standard feature on most  
insurance policies.  So I dont think that finding out about the excess wouldve altered their 
decision to take out the account.
Im open  to the possibility Mr and Mrs H may not have been told everything about all of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I cannot  see anything specific that they were  not 
told that I think wouldve  altered their decision  to take out the account. 
I accept that the Select Plus account  included benefits Mr and Mrs H may not have wanted  
or needed. But the benefits on packaged accounts arent tailored to individuals and its rare 
for an accountholder  to find all of the benefits useful. The Select  Plus account was the 
cheapest in Lloyds range to include the benefits  Mr and Mrs H appear to have wanted and 
needed at the time.  So overall  I think they had enough information  to know  and understand 
broadly what they were  agreeing to.
Mr and Mrs H may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that they havent  benefitted 
from the account as much  as theyd hoped and expected when they initially upgraded. And 
given what they may have  heard  or read about  packaged bank accounts in general, I can 
understand why they might now think their account was mis-sold.  But having looked  at the 
information provided and carefully thought about everything theyve said, I dont  think that 
Lloyds mis-sold the Select Plus account to them. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H have said that they were contacted on a number of occasions by 
Lloyds and while they were offered more expensive accounts  they were  never  given an 
option of a free account. In addition they have  said that they should have been  contacted  
and offered an opportunity to downgrade their account as they had not been using the 
benefits. Firstly I should  say that Lloyds was under no obligation to contact account holders 
who are not using the benefits of their accounts.  In relation to not knowing they could 
downgrade, I cant see why Mr and Mrs H would not have been aware that they could 
downgrade their account given that they chose to upgrade from a fee free account  
themselves. I also cant see any evidence of them contacting Lloyds to downgrade. So 
overall I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong  in relation to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28486423
Ref: DRN2848642