K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the service they received from Which?  Financial 
Services Limited (WFSL)  in relation  to a mortgage  application.
background
Mr and Mrs M were  looking  to sell their existing property and purchase a new one. They  
initially contacted  WFSL in March 2018 and instructed WFSL to proceed  in May 2018.  There 
was a fee payable to WFSL of £299 upfront and a further £200 was payable on completion.
WFSL identified two lenders, based on a purchase price  of £255,000 and a loan amount of 
£229.500 over a 30-year  term.  Unfortunately,  due to adverse credit,  it wasnt possible to find 
a suitable mortgage at that level. 
Mr M had started a new job and was still on probation which  would not end until August 
2018. This was material information likely  to affect any lending  decision, and so matters  
didnt progress until late July 2018,  when Mr and Mrs M contacted WFLS again. Theyd 
already sold their property  and had cleared some of their credit.  
Although Mr and Mrs M wanted to apply for a 90% mortgage, they wanted  to proceed quickly 
with a lender Ill refer to as P, which had already issued  a DIP. 
On 14 August 2018 a Key Facts  Illustration (KFI) was issued and a letter  of recommendation 
was sent to Mr and Mrs M. The product was a 30-year repayment mortgage for £198.805  on 
an initial 2-year fixed rate of 3.28%, with the product fee of £945  being added to the loan 
amount. The loan-to-value  ratio (LTV) was 85%.  Mr M provided details of the solicitors  he 
and Mrs M wanted to use.
The application was submitted to P on 14 August 2018. P wanted further documentation and 
information in order to proceed. There were numerous requests from P and responses from 
WFSL over the next few weeks  until, on 6 September 2018, P said it could book the 
valuation for 19 September. Unfortunately the vendors were going  on holiday the day before, 
so, urgently, the valuation was rearranged by P using different surveyors and took place on 
10 September 2018.
At about the same time, it was discovered  that Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors were  not on Ps 
panel. This meant that P instructed its own solicitors to carry out the mortgage work, with Mr 
and Mrs M bearing the cost of £795.
The mortgage offer was issued on 17 September 2018, just over a month after the 
application was submitted.  Completion  of the purchase took place  on 4 October 2018.
On 3 October 2018, the day before completion, Mr and Mrs M were  told by their solicitors 
that there  was a shortfall of £1,000  in the completion funds. Mr and Mrs M had to find this at 
short notice. This was in relation to Ps completion fee of £945  which  P had not, in fact, 
included in the mortgage advance.
Mr and Mrs M complained. In summary they said:
After the original DIP expired,  the new DIP was at a higher interest rate because  interest 
rates had risen  after the Budget.
Ref: DRN24229222From  16 August 2018 there was up to a month in delays due to repeated requests for 
documents from WFSL and P. At no point did WFSL communicate with Mr and Mrs M to 
find out what documents had already been  submitted.
They were told there  was a five-day  turnaround  by P in dealing  with queries and 
correspondence.
P refused to accept copies of ID and bank statements, even  though WFSL said these  
were sufficient.
WFSL delayed in commissioning the valuation.
By 5 September 2018 all documents had been submitted to P, yet there had still been no 
valuation report.
After being  told the valuation  was scheduled  for 19 September 2018, Mr and Mrs M had 
to tell WFSL to find an alternative.
On 10 September  2018 the estate  agents  informed Mr and Mrs M of the valuation  date, 
not WFSL.
There was no urgency in chasing P for the valuation  report  on 11 September  2018.
After receiving the valuation report on 12 September  2018,  Mr and Mrs M found out they 
couldnt use their own solicitors for the mortgage work. This had never been flagged  up.
The two sets of solicitors decided to correspond  directly  with each other,  rather than 
going through WFSL.
It was only on the day of completion that Mr and Mrs M found out that the product fee 
had not been added  to the mortgage,  costing them an additional  £945.
WFSL responded to the complaint in a final response letter  dated 15 February 2019. It 
acknowledged that it should  have  checked  the solicitors  were on Ps panel before submitting 
the application. But WFSL also said that the solicitors would have known they were  not on 
Ps panel and should have told Mr and Mrs M. WFSL said it would reduce its fee by £50 by 
way of compensation.
WFSL thought the issue with the product fee was the fault of the lender. The KFI and 
mortgage offer show the fee added  to the loan.  But P later confirmed that it had included the 
product fee in the LTV calculation, and as the loan amount was already at 85%, the fee 
couldnt be added to that, resulting in a shortfall. Although  WFSL considered this to be Ps 
fault, it acknowledged Mr and Mrs M were surprised  to have  to find this fee at the last 
minute. It offered to reduce its fee by a further  £50 to compensate  them for their 
disappointment.
Dissatisfied with the offer of £100 compensation, Mr and Mrs M complained to us. An 
investigator looked at the complaint. She asked WFSL  to pay a further £100 compensation. 
WFSL didnt agree it should pay anything more. And Mr and Mrs M thought that the 
compensation WFSL had offered was derisory. As the complaint is still unresolved,  it now 
falls to me to make a final decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree that there  were  some errors by 
WFSL, but not to the extent claimed by Mr and Mrs M. And a number  of the issues  they are 
unhappy about and which they consider  the fault of WFSL are, in fact, nothing  to do with 
WFSL.
Ill go through the points Mr and Mrs M have made.
Ref: DRN24229223Mr and Mrs M werent able to proceed with their mortgage application until mid-August  2018, 
when Mr M finished his probationary period with his employers.  Im satisfied it wasnt  
feasible to put in an application in July 2018 when a DIP was obtained in order  to lock in a 
mortgage product.  So although  I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M were  upset  that base rate 
went up to 0.75% on 2 August 2018,  thats  not the fault of WFSL.
The application was submitted on 14 August 2018 and the mortgage offer was issued on 
17 September 2018, 23 working days later (taking into account the August  Bank  Holiday). 
Im satisfied this is a fairly swift timescale  for a mortgage application. Completion took place 
on 4 October 2018. I understand Mr and Mrs M wanted to complete in early September, due 
to their sons schooling.  I think this was unrealistic, given that a mortgage application 
generally takes 4-8 weeks from application  to offer.
Lenders are dealing with multiple applications and are entitled to put in place a timescale to 
deal with each  stage of the process. The turnaround time which forms part of Ps application 
process is out of the control of WFSL. If Ps turnaround  time is five days, all WFSL can do is 
emphasise to P the urgency of an application.  Ive seen  nothing in the timeline of events to 
support Mr and Mrs Ms contention that there was a delay by WFSL of up to a month in 
progressing the application.
P had various queries  about ID, bank statements, deposit funds, employment history  and 
repayment of credit  commitments  which arose during the application process. I appreciate  
Mr and Mrs M feel there were requests for information theyd already provided and that they 
couldnt provide  anything  further. But its up to P to decide what information  it wants, and I 
can see that WFSL explained to P that it had provided everything requested and queried 
what else P needed and why.
I also note that WFSL was chasing P requesting updates and clarification of its information  
requests. I see that P confirmed to WFSL that it was running behind. WFSL continued to 
chase P to assess the application. In the circumstances,  Im not persuaded that WFSL, as 
Mr and Mrs M allege, did nothing to try to progress the application, when WFSLs records 
show that it was regularly contacting P to try to speed up the process.
Its not WFSLs responsibility to arrange  the valuation. The valuation  is carried out by Ps 
surveyor, who will liaise with the vendor or estate agent to arrange  an appointment. So there  
is nothing unusual or untoward in the estate  agent  knowing  the date of the valuation  before 
WFSL. Its certainly not  as Mr and Mrs M appear  to suggest  a sign of any failing on the 
part of WFSL.  I  also note that on 7 September 2018  WFSL spoke  to P about urgently 
rearranging the valuation,  but P said that the only parties that could arrange a new date were 
the surveyors and the vendor, so this was nothing to do with WFSL. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy at Ps turnaround time for the valuation  report  to 
be issued. As I said above,  thats a matter for P, and its not something over which WFSL 
has any control. Im satisfied WFSL chased  P repeatedly  for the valuation  report and the 
mortgage offer. Im not persuaded  there was nothing more WFSL could have done to 
expedite the application.
Its up to lenders to determine which solicitors its prepared to instruct  to carry out the work 
required to put the mortgage in place. If the solicitors used for the conveyancing arent on 
the lenders panel (as was the case here), then the lenders entitled to instruct its own 
solicitors.
Ref: DRN24229224WFSL has acknowledged that it should have  checked to see if Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors 
were on Ps panel when  the application  was submitted. WFSL has acknowledged that this 
was a mistake, and its offered compensation of £50 for this, as a reduction from its invoice. I 
think this is fair and reasonable. 
I say this because  Im satisfied the solicitors would, have known at the point they were  
instructed on the purchase that they werent  on Ps panel. So Im satisfied that the solicitors  
bear the larger responsibility for failing to explain the implications of this to Mr and Mrs M. In 
the circumstances, I think  the £50 reduction in WFSLs  invoice is fair and reasonable. 
I also note that Mr M confirmed to the investigator during a telephone conversation on 
12 September 2019 that theyd continued  with their original solicitors  out of courtesy  and 
that he thought  Ps solicitors didnt really  have to do much. I think in this context Mr M has 
misunderstood what the solicitors were  required  to do on behalf of P. I wont  go into the 
details here as its not relevant, but it is certainly much  more than just a duplication  of the 
work done by his own solicitors.
Ive taken on board what WFSL  has said about  the shortfall of £945  in the completion 
monies as a result of Ps completion fee not being  added to the loan. Ive looked at the 
mortgage offer. This says that the amount of the loan is £199,750, inclusive of fees (so the 
£198.805 quoted in the KFI, plus the fee of £945).  This is in total equal to 85% of the 
purchase price of £235,000. In the section on the mortgage offer on fees,  the completion fee 
of £945 is again stated  as being  added to the mortgage, as well as a funds transfer fee of 
£15.00. 
Given this, I dont think WFSL is at fault in relation  to this issue. Ps documents state  quite 
clearly that the £945 is to be added to the mortgage.  I understand P has acknowledged  to 
WFSL that its documentation is misleading.  I dont  see how, on any reading of the mortgage 
offer, WFSL would have  known that the fee would not be added to the mortgage advance.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I dont think it would be fair to order  WFSL to pay any 
further compensation, as Im not persuaded it has made any error  in relation to this point. 
Overall Im satisfied that the compensation already offered  a total deduction of £100  from 
WFSLs completion invoice  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As Ive 
explained, there were  other parties in the transaction who I think are at fault (P and Mr and 
Mrs Ms solicitors), and so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to place all the blame for what 
went wrong with WFSL.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation already offered by Which? Financial Services  Limited  a deduction of £100 
from its completion invoice  is fair and reasonable. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24229225
Ref: DRN2422922