K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account and placed a CIFAS  fraud  marker 
on his account  without telling him. As a result of this he found he was unable  to open a new 
account with another  bank.
background
Mr J had two accounts  with Santander:  a current account and a savings account. In 2015 
Santander wrote to him to tell him it had suspended his current account, which  would be 
closed in 14 days time. It didnt fully explain  why, but its letter  alluded  to fraud. It later closed 
both of his accounts and registered a fraud marker  against him with CIFAS.
For two years Mr J used  his mothers bank account, but in 2017  he got a job and so he 
needed an account of his own. In 2017,  he opened  an account with a new bank, but shortly  
afterwards the new bank wrote to him to say it was closing his account  due to the CIFAS 
marker recorded by Santander. Mr J complains that Santander hadnt told him about the 
CIFAS marker,  so he only found out about it when he tried to open a new account  two years 
later. He has since obtained a basic account, but he would like to have  a normal current  
account. He is also concerned about the impact a CIFAS marker may have on him more 
generally. He wants  the marker to be removed.
When Mr J complained to Santander, it told him that two fraudulent  credits  had been  made  
to his current account, for £700 and £560, which had then been  withdrawn the same  day 
(using his debit card).  It had therefore  blocked  the current account, and had later closed both 
his accounts.
Mr J brought this complaint to our Service. Our adjudicator concluded  that Mr Js complaint 
should not be upheld. She explained  that banks are entitled to suspend or close  customers 
accounts when  they suspect them of acting fraudulently. The bank had sent her evidence (in 
confidence) to support its case. Having  considered  this, she concluded that Santander  had 
acted reasonably and had closed  the account in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he had been  the one who had 
brought the fraud  to Santanders attention in the first place.  He had reported his debit card as 
lost, and so it must have  been used by someone  else to withdraw the fraudulent  credits. He 
disputed Santanders  claim that hed used  the card in branch to withdraw  the closing 
balance, and insisted  that he had presented an identification document  instead. He asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which went as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The evidence I have  seen  shows  the following sequence of events:
26 September 2015  £700 credit  to account. £700 withdrawn the same day.
28 September  £560 credit to account.  £560 withdrawn the same  day.
1 October  Santander opened a fraud case. Date of Santanders  letter telling Mr J 
his current account was suspended pending  closure.
Ref: DRN244723625 October  Santander blocked  Mr Js debit card when he reported it lost.
2 November  both accounts closed  and debit card cancelled. Closing balances  
transferred to Santanders suspense account.
23 December  Mr J attends  branch with his passport to collect  closing balances  
(about £60).
The two credits to Mr Js current account came from an account with another bank. That 
bank reported  the transactions to Santander,  which is what  caused Santander to investigate 
them. The investigation did not begin  as a result of anything Mr J told it, and he did not 
report the card as lost until four days after its letter telling him that his account was going to 
be closed (in which  fraud  was mentioned), and six and eight days after the fraudulent funds 
were withdrawn from his account.
(In April 2018 Mr J told our adjudicator that he reported his card stolen shortly before the 
fraudulent credits happened. But two months earlier, in February 2018, he had told her it 
was afterwards, and the branch staff had told him about the credits. As he was trying to 
recall events which took place two and a half years ago, and his recollection differs from time 
to time, I dont think his memory of the sequence  of events  is reliable.  I am reinforced in that 
view by the fact that he also told our adjudicator  that he had not written down his PIN and 
kept it with his card, and later said that he had.)
Santanders records indicate that on 5 October 2015 someone used Mr Js card in a branch 
to check his balance  (and entered his PIN to do so), and then about six minutes later, in the 
same branch, Mr J reported  the card as missing. I infer that these were the same person. 
Mr J has suggested that Santander must have tampered with its records,  but I have seen no 
evidence to make me think that it has done  that. I accept that he did not use his debit card to 
withdraw the closing  balance  in December, after the card had been cancelled, but that does 
not prove what happened in September and October one way or the other.
I therefore reject Mr Js assertion that he reported the fraud  to Santander  so that Santander 
could stop it. The fraud  had already been brought to Santanders attention  days beforehand.
I think that Santander had enough  evidence to conclude that Mr J had been involved in the 
relevant transactions, and that it was justified in closing his accounts and registering the 
CIFAS marker.  I do not think it would be reasonable of me to require Santander to remove  
the marker.
However, I do agree with Mr J that Santander should have told him that it had registered  a 
CIFAS marker  against  him, and should have warned him that this would make it difficult  for 
him to open  a new account elsewhere. If it had told him, then he would have been spared 
the inconvenience of opening a new current account only for it to be closed shortly  
afterwards. He could  have just opened a basic account in the first place. So to that extent, 
I am minded to uphold this complaint, and to award  compensation  of £30.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any 
further representations I receive  from the parties by the date below, I intend to order  
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr J £30.
I now invite Mr J and Santander  UK Plc to let me have any further comments by 12 February 
2019, after which I will issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN24472363my provisional findings
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision. So there is no reason for me to depart  
from my findings, and I affirm them here.
my final decision
For the above reasons, my decision is that I uphold this complaint  in part. I order Santander 
UK Plc to pay Mr J £30.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2447236