K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs K bought the policy in 1994  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mrs K was employed as an auditor. She has told us she was entitled  to sick pay 
(although she hasnt said how long for, despite  us asking) and had three to six months 
salary available  as savings or insurance.  She also told us she was entitled  to some 
redundancy pay. However, Mrs K told HFC Bank  that she had no sick or redundancy pay. 
Mrs K has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  5% of Mrs Ks credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  At the time,  it cost 49p per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium  would  continue  to have to be paid 
during a successful  claim and it did attract  interest. 
HFC Bank has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in 1998.
Mrs Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ks representative says:
HFC Bank failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ks 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HFC Bank should 
have told Mrs K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HFC Bank should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs K and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN26589592Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HFC Bank at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
Ref: DRN26589593these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ks case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so HFC 
Bank was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HFC Bank gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs K with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HFC Bank gave Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs K and HFC 
Bank, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs K know she had a choice?
HFC Bank had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Mrs K applied for the card and PPI by completing  a form that she returned to HFC Bank 
through the post. HFC Bank has provided an example of the application form that was in use 
Ref: DRN26589594at the time, and it required the customer to tick either a yes or a no box to indicate 
whether they wanted PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs K knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did HFC Bank provide  advice?
HFC Bank says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Given that the sale took place 
through a postal application, Im not persuaded that HFC Bank  provided advice. 
This means  HFC Bank didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs K. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs K to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
HFC Bank has provided us with an example of the application  form that was in use at the 
time of the sale  showing that PPI had to be selected. It has also provided  a copy  of the 
paperwork it says she wouldve received, including the policy terms and conditions  which I 
accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Ks. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs K at the time,  I dont think HFC Bank  gave Mrs K 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mrs K any information about 
the PPI. I think its unlikely Mrs K would  have agreed  to take it out without at least having a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mrs K would have thought it was free.
But it was HFC Banks responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ks attention  the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded HFC Bank did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Mrs K, including the need to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that HFC Bank 
adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So, I dont think HFC Bank gave Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN26589595In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ks representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HFC Bank ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did HFC Banks  shortcomings have on Mrs K? To what extent did Mrs K 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that HFC Bank  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs K. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs K 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs K 
would have still taken  out the policy, had HFC Bank done things properly. 
Mrs K says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs K had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs K chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs K thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs K ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
the application form described it as protecting her account. But I accept that HFC Bank didnt 
make clear  the on-going cost information.  So, while Mrs K didnt  know some things, the 
ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what  she would 
reasonably have thought  from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  
on and found  acceptable. 
Ref: DRN26589596Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs K knew  about or 
ought to have known about  in the six months  before  the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs K 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs K be unable  to 
do her own job or any similar job for which she was reasonably qualified,  and not be 
doing any other work. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs K pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs K from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs K didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs K had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job for which she was reasonably qualified, and be doing no other  work, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs K was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation,  
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs K would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN26589597That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs K would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ks 
circumstances, as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs K 
found herself in, as a result of the sale, was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs K in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HFC Bank should  pay Mrs K compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs K thinks HFC Bank misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of HFC 
Banks statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why HFC Bank  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information HFC Bank  gave Mrs K, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1994 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HFC Bank negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs K and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that HFC Bank had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs K in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN26589598my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Philip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2658959