K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1990. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1983. In 1990 a PPI policy was taken out to cover  
the mortgage repayments.  Mrs M paid a monthly  amount for the policy.
If Mrs M had made a successful  claim  the policy would have paid the monthly mortgage 
repayment for up to 12 months if she was to lose her job and up to 24 months if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  that this will come  as a disappointment 
to Mrs M and Ill explain my reasons for reaching that outcome.
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out. Mrs M has said she didnt know she had the PPI but Halifax  said it would have 
made the optional  nature  clear. Neither Mrs M nor Halifax has been able to confirm  how the 
policy was sold. This means  I dont  have any notes to show  what discussions may have 
taken place or any copies of paperwork  that Mrs M may have seen or signed  but this isnt 
surprising considering the length  of time that has passed. I also need to take into account 
that recollections of a sale from over 29 years ago may have been  affected over time.
Ive thought very carefully about this but I havent  seen enough to say that its more likely 
that Halifax didnt  make it clear the policy was optional or that Mrs M didnt agree to take it. 
This policy began six years after the initial  mortgage  was taken out and, as the charge for 
the PPI would most likely  have been  separate to her mortgage repayments, if Mrs M didnt  
know what this additional payment was for or hadnt  agreed to take it out, I think  she would 
have raised this with Halifax sooner than she did.
So, when taking  everything into account,  I think its more likely that Halifax  made  Mrs M 
aware the policy was optional  and she agreed  to take it, knowing  she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it.
Halifax has said it considered this sale on the basis it provided advice to Mrs M about  the 
policy. Based on what we know about Halifaxs sales practices at the time I think  this is likely 
to be the case.  And as it puts a greater  responsibility  on Halifax, rather  than Mrs M, I have 
also considered  this complaint on the basis it provided advice  to her. This means  Halifax had 
to check that the PPI was right for Mrs M  and based on what  Ive seen  of her 
Ref: DRN29183402circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she appears to have been eligible 
for the policy  and doesnt seem to have  been  affected by any of the main  exclusions or limits 
on the PPI cover, such as unusual working arrangements  or suffering from a medical 
condition of which  she was already aware.
And she seems to have had a need for the cover.  Mrs M has told us that she would receive 
more than six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from her employer  if she 
was too ill to work. But this policy would have  paid out for up to 24 months if she was unable  
to work due to accident or sickness which would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer 
than, any sick pay she would receive. And it would pay out for up to 12 months if she was to 
lose her job. Whilst  Mrs M has said she had some savings, this policy  would enable  her to 
protect her savings for another  purpose or use them to cover  other  essential  living  
expenses. So I still think this policy could have been useful for Mrs M.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think its more  likely she chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has told us, including what she has said about her 
husbands property  and why she thinks this means she didnt  need  the cover. Whilst I 
appreciate that her husband would have  wanted  to help meet  the repayments, support from 
others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they 
are unable to provide  such  financial  support. So this point  doesnt change my decision.
So, when taking  everything into account,  I dont  think  Mrs M has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Halifax may have done wrong.
my final decision
As detailed  above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2918340