K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc unfairly applied a default to his account and 
passed it to a third party.
background
Mr B had a current account with Co-op. Co-op  registered a default  against this account in 
September 2017. And assigned it to a third party shortly afterwards. 
Mr B complained to Co-op. He said he didnt think it was fair it had taken this action because 
he was still disputing its earlier decision to withdraw the overdraft facility from the account. 
He feels it failed to respond to his questions or deal with his complaint properly. 
Mr B has also complained that two defaults have  been recorded on his credit file for the 
same debt. One by Co-op, and one by the third party to whom it was assigned.
Co-op said that it had written to Mr B twice  in 2017  to confirm its decision to remove  his 
overdraft. It noted it had given him some contradictory information about how it had reached 
this decision in some  further letters it sent. And it agreed the service it had provided in this 
respect could have been better. But it said it was satisfied the letters  wouldnt have changed 
the outcome of its decision. It also explained  that Mr Bs account  had been  passed to a third 
party in line with its usual  process. 
Co-op looked into Mr Bs concerns about  not receiving correspondence,  and explained that it 
couldnt be held accountable for the postal  service. But did note that it hadnt replied to his 
letter dated  7 August  2017. It agreed  this was poor service on its part - though it didnt think 
this had affected the other actions itd taken here.
Furthermore it explained that its credit reference department  had confirmed that Mr B is the 
only person who can see both defaults  on his credit report. It said that any other institutions 
wouldnt be able to see Co-ops default.
Taking everything into consideration Co-op credited Mr Bs account with £75 compensation 
to apologise for the poor service hed received from it. But didnt feel it had done anything  
else wrong here.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened and said he thought Co-op  had acted 
fairly when  it defaulted the account, and when it transferred it to a third party.  He was also 
satisfied that only one default  is visible in respect of this debt when Mr Bs credit  report is 
viewed by other prospective lenders.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  view. So this complaint has been passed to me to 
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear Mr B feels strongly about this 
matter. And I can see hes very frustrated  about whats happened.  But whilst  I appreciate  
hell be disappointed, Im not going to ask Co-op  to do anything  further here.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN21747452In March 2017 Co-op decided not to renew the overdraft  facility on Mr Bs account.  I can see 
that it agreed to temporarily extend  the overdraft until 16 April 2017 to give him some  
additional time to clear  the balance. But on the 5 June 2017 it wrote to him and advised that 
he needed to contact it to arrange to pay the overdraft off. And that if he didnt it may need to 
let Credit Reference Agencies know.
Co-op then sent Mr B a default notice  on 17 June 2017 advising that if he didnt bring the 
account fully up to date within 28 days a default  may be registered.  And this was followed by 
a final demand letter  on 21 July 2017  asking  him to pay off the outstanding  balance straight 
away, or contact it as soon as possible.  
Mr B didnt do this. And Co-op registered  a default against the account on 6 September 
2017. At this point  I can see from his credit file that the account was showing as three 
months in arrears. Generally a default may be recorded by a lender when an account  is 
three months in arrears, and normally by the time its six months in arrears. So Im satisfied  
Co-op were  entitled to register a default at this time. And that it had given Mr B appropriate 
notice that it intended to take this action if he didnt agree an arrangement  to repay  his 
overdraft.
I appreciate Mr B was unhappy with Co-ops  decision to remove  the overdraft from his 
account. And I understand this led to the arrears  arising. However I previously issued a 
decision on this matter  to both parties. In it I explained that I wasnt able to consider the 
merits of Co-ops decision  to remove his overdraft as it issued a final response  letter  about 
the matter in March  2017, and Mr B hadnt referred it to our service  within  the relevant time 
limits. 
Mr B has complained about subsequent  correspondence Co-op  sent (and didnt send)  to 
him. But looking at these letters Im satisfied it had taken reasonable steps to make it clear  to 
Mr B that it wasnt going to change its decision to withdraw his overdraft.  So whilst I 
understand Mr B wasnt happy with Co-ops  explanation as to how it had reached this 
decision, I dont  think it would be reasonable to say that it acted unfairly when it applied the 
default. 
Co-op has agreed that it could have provided better  service to Mr B. Its acknowledged  that it 
gave him with some conflicting information  about  whether it had carried out a credit  search.  
And that it failed to reply to a letter  he sent it on 7 August  2017.  I understand why Mr B is so 
frustrated about  this. But this happened  after Co-op had decided to withdraw  his overdraft. 
And I think its likely  Mr B would still have been unhappy about this decision even if Co-op  
hadnt given him contradictory information at this point.  
Mr B is also unhappy that Co-op passed his account  to a third party. Co-op says it did this in 
line with its normal process after failing to agree a repayment plan with Mr B. I can see the 
terms and conditions of the account  explain that Co-op may transfer its rights and 
responsibilities under the agreement. So Im satisfied that assigning his account to a third 
party is something that Co-op was entitled to do. 
Ive already explained why I dont think Mr Bs earlier  complaint should  have prevented  it 
from registering the default. And for the same reasons I dont think it acted unreasonably 
when it transferred his account to a third party here.
Mr B has raised concerns that he can see two defaults on his credit report relating to this 
one debt. 
Ref: DRN21747453Co-op has provided us with confirmation  from its credit reference team that when other 
creditors (or potential creditors) look at Mr Bs credit report they will only see the entry on the 
report from the third party, and not the one from Co-op. Its shown us that its recorded a flag 
on Mr Bs account which it says means he is the only person who can view its entry. So Im 
satisfied he isnt being unfairly penalised  here.
Taking everything into account,  I think the £75 compensation Co-op paid Mr B to apologise  
for the poor service he received was reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not going to 
ask it to do anything  further here. 
  
my final decision
I do not require  The Co-operative Bank  Plc to do anything to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2174745