K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly declined  a claim on his mechanical  breakdown insurance policy.
Within this decision, any reference to Red Sands  will include its agents. And because Mr R 
is represented, any submissions regarding his position will be referenced as being  made  by 
Mr R directly.
background
Mr R bought a car in 2016 and took out a motor warranty with Red Sands. The warranty  was 
designed to cover components of his car against  sudden mechanical failure. And, in 2018, 
Mr R submitted a claim to Red Sands when his cars crank  shaft failed.
Red Sands  appointed an independent engineer to inspect the fault who reported the cars 
likely failure  to have  been  caused  by being  driven on depleted  oil. Red Sands said there  was 
no evidence of a sudden mechanical  failure because of that and declined  Mr Rs claim.  But 
Mr R disagreed with their decision and brought his complaint here.
Mr R said his car couldnt have been driven on depleted oil because  itd been lubricated  as 
part of an annual service  shortly before the failure had occurred. 
Our investigator thought Red Sands had acted reasonably in declining Mr Rs claim.  They  
said the available evidence from the independent  engineer suggested the cars part had 
failed due to wear and tear which wasnt covered under the warranty. But Mr R disagreed  
and reiterated  his initial concerns. So as no agreement was reached  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision because I was minded  to reach  the same  conclusion as our 
investigator but wanted to give some new reasons as to why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. In summary, my provisional  decision said:
Mr Rs warranty  covered,  all mechanical  and electrical parts (including labour to fit 
them), of the insured vehicle against  mechanical breakdown.  And it defined 
mechanical breakdown as the failure  of a mechanical or electric component, causing 
a sudden stoppage of its function, for a reason  other  than wear  and tear, 
deterioration or negligence.
Mr R had his car serviced yearly  since buying it in 2016,  and given hed said it broke  
down suddenly I could  appreciate  why he thought  the failure should be deemed a 
sudden mechanical  breakdown. 
The independent report had said, based on upon the visible  evidence  we can 
conclude the cause of the condition is consistent with a lack of lubrication.  However,  
the oil pump displays no signs of any defects or breakage. The oil pump  could be 
heard to be siphoning and rotating freely.  [] the most likely cause is that the vehicle 
has been driven on depleted engine  oil supply at some  point in the past causing pick 
up damage to the big end and main bearing  shells.
Although Red Sands  had relied on the independent report to decline Mr Rs claim, I 
wasnt persuaded theyd done  enough  to show the cars failure wasnt sudden  at the 
point it broke down  because  Red Sands hadnt explained why they thought the 
Ref: DRN23680922breakdown wasnt  sudden at the point it occurred, nor how the car could have been 
driven on depleted oil to then fail at some point later.
I thought that the point Mr Rs car stopped working could be deemed as sudden, 
because it stopped working and needed  repair before it would operate  properly 
again. But the policy term relating to mechanical failure  also said cover wasnt  
available if mechanical failure  was caused by wear and tear. And the garage where 
Mr Rs car had been previously serviced  and repaired  had said, the engine  had 
covered 118,000  miles and I have been advised that it is a relatively common  
concern with this engine for the crankshaft bearing  to fail at this time.
Mr R had said his car had been fully serviced and inspected just before  it broke  
down. No faults or oil depletion issued had previously been raised with the car. And, 
a warning light came on showing a lack of oil but thered been no previous  warning  
before the engine  failed. So taking all that into account, I was satisfied  the likely 
cause of the cars failure was down  to wear and tear because  the garage  had said it 
was common for the crankshaft to fail on cars of similar age and mileage to Mr Rs. 
Although Red Sands  hadnt done  enough  to persuade  me that Mr Rs car hadnt 
suffered a sudden  mechanical breakdown, I wasnt intending to interfere with their 
decision to decline the claim because the term Red Sands had relied on also said 
Mr R wasnt covered  if the failure  was due to wear and tear. 
Both sides were given a reasonable opportunity to comment on my provisional decision. But 
neither side did and so, Im now issuing a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. 
I wont repeat everything that I set out in my provisional decision and that I summarised  
above. But based on the available evidence I remain satisfied that that the likely cause of 
Mr Rs cars  failure was due to wear and tear. 
Whilst Mr Rs mechanical breakdown policy covers, all mechanical and electrical  parts 
(including labour  to fit them), of the insured vehicle against mechanical  breakdown . It 
defines mechanical breakdown as the failure of a mechanical or electric component, 
causing a sudden stoppage of its function,  for a reason other than wear and tear, 
deterioration or negligence. So wear and tear isnt covered under Mr Rs policy. 
As I set out above, Ive explained  why Im not persuaded that Red Sands have done enough 
to show that the cars failure  wasnt  sudden  at the point it broke down. But Im not going to 
interfere with their decision to decline Mr Rs claim because the policy  term that Red Sands 
relied on also sets out that cover isnt provided  where a failure  is due to wear and tear. 
I realise that Mr R may be disappointed  by that, but I wont be directing Red Sands to do 
anything. 
Ref: DRN23680923my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2368092