K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Experian Limited has recorded  incorrect information about  his financial 
standing.
background
In November 2018 Mr W complained to Experian about information  it had recorded  in 
relation a loan account. 
The account  was opened in October 2016  with a third party lender, and payments of £83.33 
were due for 24 months.  Mr W says he didnt miss a payment on this account, but a 
delinquency marker has been unfairly  recorded against him.
Experian said there was no mention of delinquency on the evidence Mr W had provided. It 
explained that lenders are responsible for recording  the correct payment history against  
account entries. And that it had carried out a thorough  search of its database  and couldnt 
find that it was reporting  any accounts  matching the opening date and terms of the one Mr W 
was concerned about. So it was unable to contact the lender to ask for account information 
to be amended. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service.  Hes 
asked that Experian correct his credit report and pay him compensation for its mistake.  
Our investigator didnt  feel that Experian had made  an error here. They  were  satisfied that 
Experian wasnt reporting the account Mr W had complained about. And that it wasnt  
reporting any other account  hed had as having missed  payments  or being in a delinquent 
status either.  
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings.  So the case  has been passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but Ive 
reached the same conclusions our investigator  did here.  Ill explain  why.
Mr W has provided us with the first page  of a report produced  by a third party bank. This 
report is dated 21 April 2017  and contains a summary of Search Details.  The CAIS (Credit 
Account Information  Sharing) section of this summary states that Worst  Historical [status] 
is 1 Month Delinquent. 
I understand this report has caused  Mr W extreme concern.  Hes told us he believes this is a 
reference to a delinquency marker, and that it relates to the loan account  detailed above. 
And that he has never missed a payment to this account.  
I have no reason to doubt what Mr W has told us about his payment history.  But this 
particular section of the report references  a Person  1 with a different name  to Mr W. So Im 
afraid I dont share Mr Ws view that this report evidences that Experian  has unfairly 
recorded a delinquent marker against  him.
Ref: DRN23939032Mr W has also provided us with another page from what  appears  to be the same  report.  This 
page does contain credit account information  in his name, and details matching the loan 
account he has concerns  about. It shows the current status  of the account (as it was last 
updated at April 2017). And a U marker  is recorded against the oldest month.
I can see Mr W feels this marker further evidences his complaint. But as our investigator 
clarified, a U status does  not signify a missed  payment. Nor is it a delinquency marker. And 
it doesnt convey  negative information about an account. I can see that Experian explained 
in one of its final response  letters to Mr W that a U status stands for Unrecorded  entry and 
that this is when the lender cannot give the account  status for the month. 
Simply put, it normally  means that a payment  isnt due or an account  has only been recently 
opened. I understand that Mr W took out this loan in October 2016,  but the first payment 
wasnt due until November 2016. So I think its likely  this is why a U status is shown on this 
report. Albeit, to clarify, I am only looking at the actions of Experian here, and this report  and 
its content was not produced by Experian.  
I understand Mr W feels the information  that is on this report has come  from Experian. But in 
February 2019 Experian provided our service  with a copy of the information  it had recorded 
about accounts linked to both Mr W and his business. Ive looked at this carefully, and like 
our investigator Ive found that Experian wasnt actually  recording an account with details 
matching the one Mr W is concerned about. Furthermore,  the records  of the accounts that 
Experian showed us it was reporting  didnt show any defaults,  missed or delinquent 
payments. 
In light of these  findings,  it follows that I havent found Experian has made an error here. 
Mr W may wish to obtain an up to date copy of his credit report  from the main  Credit 
Reference Agencies if he still has concerns about his credit  file. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2393903