K821x#15complaint
Mr S1, represented by Mr S2, complains that the conditional sale agreement  he entered  into 
with Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc was not what had been agreed with the dealer and that 
his previous finance agreement was not settled.
 
Mr S1 also complains that there were faults with the car.
background
Mr S1 entered  into a conditional  sale agreement  with Santander  to acquire a car. He says 
that when arranging the deal it was agreed  his existing  car would be part exchanged and the 
finance agreement  on this would be settled. He says a part exchange  value of £11,000  was 
agreed and that due to the settlement amount on his existing agreement being £13,912.96 
this meant  that there was negative  equity  of £2,912.96 which  was included in the conditional 
sale agreement with Santander.
Mr S1 took delivery  of the car on 5 April 2018. Shortly  after Mr S2 contacted Santander to 
get details of the direct debit payments. He says the monthly payment amount was higher 
than had been agreed and so he asked for a copy of all the paperwork. Mr S1 says this 
contained a number of errors which he thought  were  fraudulent.  Because  of this he wanted 
the agreement  cancelled. Mr S1 says he then also found out that his previous finance 
agreement had not been settled as had been  agreed.
The car broke down  in June 2018. Mr S1says that he cannot  afford  to pay for two 
agreements at the same time as hire car costs.
Santander says that the car Mr S1 acquired through the conditional sale was presented to it 
as a three year old car. However it was later discovered the car was much  older  than this 
and so it said the car had been misrepresented. It says that Mr S2 had also raised issues 
with the quality of the car shortly after acquisition and about  the agreement  being fraudulent. 
It says that there was insufficient evidence to say that fraud had occurred.
Due to the misrepresentation Santander  upheld Mr S1s complaint and offered for the car to 
be returned, the agreement unwound  and the deposit refunded.  It says the intention  was for 
Mr S1 to receive back the car he had part exchanged as part of the transaction. However 
Mr S1 did not accept  the return of the part exchanged car as he said it had been damaged. 
Santander says that it tried to assist Mr S1 but Mr S1 kept changing his mind in regard to 
swapping the cars.
Our investigator noted the time that had passed  dealing with this issue  and the attempts that 
had been made to resolve it. He also noted that the return of the part exchanged car was not 
likely to be successful given previous attempts and that Mr S1 wanted to return  his current  
car and have the agreement unwound. 
Our investigator thought that in this case the fairest  resolution was for a clean break. He 
thought Santander should settle  the third party finance in full and carry over the negative 
equity (giving rise to a debt between Mr S1 and Santander).  However he thought  the 
negative equity should be offset by other  refunds namely the overpayments  Mr S1 had made 
to the third party since April 2018 offset  by the amount Mr S1 owed for use of the current  car 
for which he wasnt making payments. He also said that the deposit  of £1,000 paid to the 
Ref: DRN21446302dealer should  be refunded and that hire car costs from when the car broke  down in June 
2018 should also be refunded. He noted that the refunds were  subject to interest at 8% 
annual simple.
Our investigator also said that arrangements  should be made  for the return  of Mr S1s 
private number plate, Mr S1s credit file should  be amended and Mr S1 should be paid £250  
compensation for the trouble and upset  he had been  caused.  
In regard to the warranty, our investigator  said that he hadnt seen evidence  that £500  was 
paid outside of the agreement and so he did not think further compensation was required for 
this. He did not think that the insurance costs or the £500 payment for a different car were 
required to be refunded by Santander.
Mr S2 said that what should happen is the original finance be settled at the amount of 
£13,912.96 along with a refund of £500 for the loss of a deposit  on a replacement  car which 
was only paid as Mr S1 was told his previous car would be returned  and that it was in perfect 
working order. Mr S1 also wanted the insurance refunded from the date when the car was 
deemed not road worthy. Mr S1 agreed  with our investigators other  proposals but reiterated 
the upset this issue had caused.  
In an email dated 1 September  2018,  Mr S2 says that hire car costs  totalled £739.91 and 
that a replacement car had now been  acquired.  He also said that insurance on the car 
subject to his complaint  had been stopped on 1 September 2018 and that the car was 
awaiting collection.
Santander had previously accepted the car could be returned,  the agreement  cancelled and 
the deposit refunded. It said it would require evidence of the overpayments Mr S1 had made 
on his previous agreement since April 2018  and would look to deduct these from the 
outstanding negative equity. It did not accept that hire car costs since  27 June 2018 (when 
the car broke  down) should be refunded as it said it had tried on several occasions to 
resolve Mr S1s complaint  before this occurred. It agreed to pay Mr S1 £250  for the distress 
and inconvenience  he had been caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of parts to this complaint  and a number of attempts have been made to 
resolve it. My role is to consider each  case based on its individual merits. I take relevant 
regulations (about the credit arrangement) into account but my decision  is based on what  I 
consider fair and reasonable given the unique  circumstances of each complaint.
Mr S1 first raised concerns about the payment amount on the agreement. Mr S2 has 
provided information about the discussions that took place and says the final agreed  monthly  
payment amount was £413. However  the agreement records  monthly payment amounts of 
£424. When this was discovered Mr S2 asked for all the documents  and said that he found a 
number of discrepancies  and he thought that fraud  had occurred.
I can understand Mr S2 was concerned by what he saw as possible fraudulent  activity.  It is 
not my role to say whether a fraud  has occurred  and I note that Mr S2 has raised this issue 
with the police and other  bodies. What  I have considered is whether there  was a breach of 
Ref: DRN21446303contract or if a misrepresentation occurred. If this was the case then under the regulations  
(covering the credit arrangements), Santander could be held liable.
Santander has explained that when  the conditional  sale agreement was being set up it was 
told that the car was first registered in 2015. I can see this is recorded on the agreement. 
However this is not correct and the car was first registered in 2006. Because of this I agree 
with Santander  that a misrepresentation occurred.
It is also clear  from the vehicle order form that Mr S1s previous car finance agreement  was 
expected to be settled as part of the new agreement. This did not happen, and although  
there were then attempts  to unwind the agreement I find that by not settling Mr S1s previous 
agreement there was a breach of contract.
Where a misrepresentation  or breach of contract has occurred  then it is reasonable for the 
consumer to be put back in the position  they would have been in had this not happened. In 
this case Santander  offered  to have the car returned, the conditional sale agreement  
cancelled and the deposit refunded. This addresses  a number of points but the issue  
regarding Mr S1s part exchanged vehicle and the settlement of his previous  finance 
agreement also needs to be addressed.
The vehicle order form sets out the part exchange amount agreed for Mr S1s previous car 
was £11,000.  The settlement amount on his previous finance agreement is recorded  as 
£13,912.96; this leaves  a negative equity amount of £2,912.96. I note Mr S2s comments  
about this amount but I find that the numbers recorded in the vehicle order  form are 
supported by the initial information provided  on this complaint and so I accept that there  was 
negative equity of £2,912.96 which was added to Mr S1s conditional sale agreement.
When Mr S1s issues regarding the agreement were first raised  he also raised issues  about 
the quality of the car. At this time it was agreed the conditional sale agreement  would be 
unwound and Mr S1 would  swap the car back for his previously part exchanged car. 
Unfortunately this didnt  happen due to issues being  raised about  the quality of the part 
exchanged car. 
Given the failed  attempts to resolve this issue through  the return  of the part exchanged  car, I 
find that the only reasonable outcome is now for the car to be returned without being 
swapped for an alternative. In regard to the previously part exchanged car, the outstanding  
finance relating  to this car should  be settled. 
The negative equity  on the part exchanged  vehicle  should still be the liability of Mr S1. I say 
this because this was an amount he owed in relation to his previous car and so it is not 
reasonable that it should be cancelled as part of the cancellation of the conditional sale 
agreement.
That said there are a number of items  that can be offset against  the outstanding  negative 
equity amount. First, it has been  agreed  that the deposit should  be refunded. Also,  Mr S1 
continued to make payments towards  his previous agreement after the date that it should 
have been settled (that is when the conditional sale agreement became live). These 
payments will have  reduced the amount  owing  under the previous agreement.  I find that as 
well as settling Mr S1s previous agreement, Santander should refund him all payments he 
made after the conditional sale date.
Ref: DRN21446304While Mr S1 continued to make payments under his previous  agreement  for a period of time, 
he did not make payments under  the conditional sale agreement. Therefore any refund 
should be offset by the payments due under Mr S1s conditional  sale agreement up to 27 
June 2018.
On 27 June 2018 the car broke down. As Mr S1 had raised  concerns  about the car shortly 
after acquisition and the car then broke  down within the first four months, this suggests the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. As the remedy  has already  been 
agreed in regard to misrepresentation I do not find I need to consider this further.  However I 
do accept that Mr S1 did not have use of the car from 27 June 2018 and so he should not be 
liable for any payments  due from this date.
Our investigator recommended that Mr S1s hire car costs  should be refunded from 27 June 
2018. However as I do not find that Mr S1 should  be held liable for payments from this date I 
find it reasonable that he was required to fund any alternative transport. I appreciate the 
comments that have  been made but I also accept  that attempts to resolve this issue were 
made before the car broke down and had these been successful Mr S1 would not have 
needed to hire a car.
Mr S2 has also mentioned  the cost of the warranty. However, as our investigator has 
explained this appears to be included  in the vehicle  order form and as no further evidence 
has been provided I do not find I can say a further  amount is required to be refunded  for this. 
I also do not find that any amounts Mr S1 paid to reserve other  vehicles following 
discussions with the dealer should  be refunded by Santander. I say this as Santander is only 
responsible for the actions of the dealer in regard to the setting out of the finance agreement 
and the representations  regarding the car at that point. It is not responsible  for the ongoing 
actions of the dealer. 
I do however agree  that as Mr S1 did not have use of the car from 27 June 2018,  any 
insurance costs he incurred from this time (evidence to be provided) should be refunded.
Because my suggested redress differed from our investigators I provided my thoughts to 
both parties. Santander  said that the previous finance agreement was not settled because  of 
the discussions about returning  the part exchanged  car. It noted that by settling the previous 
agreement this would give rise to the negative equity payment and it would need to contact 
Mr S1. It said that its relationship with him has broken down. It also reiterated that Mr S1 
hadnt made any payments towards  the current agreement. It said the dealer still has the 
part exchanged car which has a MOT until July 2019 and its preferred outcome would be to 
return this to Mr S1 and cancel the current agreement.
Mr S2 said that Santander had said that usage  charges would not be applied and so he 
didnt accept that these were  part of the proposed resolution. He agreed that a clean break  
was required given  the previous failed attempts to return the part exchanged car but did not 
accept that there was a negative equity liability. He noted the sales invoice and other  
information in support  of this point. Mr S2 also challenged why hire car costs were  not being  
included as he said he had no choice but to do this. Mr S2 also reiterated  his comments  
about the loss in regard  to a deposit  for another vehicle and the need for his personal 
registration plate  to be returned.
I have considered all the points  raised in response  to my provisional redress. While  I 
understand Santanders concerns about the break down in relationship,  given the previous 
Ref: DRN21446305failed attempts at returning the part exchanged  vehicle I dont think  this is an option. 
Because of this I find it reasonable  that the originally intended approach  of the finance  on 
the part exchanged vehicle being  settled should take place.  
I note Mr S2s comments about the negative  equity and the reference  he has made  to the 
sales invoice. However, the vehicle order form and the original email sent in regard to this 
complaint set out the negative equity  and I accept this was included as part of the new 
agreement. 
I understand Mr S2s comments about  Santander  saying Mr S1 would  not be responsible  for 
the usage of the vehicle but this was part of an agreement between  Mr S1 and Santander 
that didnt then materialise. I have looked  again at the whole case  and in order to be fair to 
both parties I find it reasonable that Mr S1 is responsible for the payments  due for the period 
he had use of the car.
I agree  that Mr S1s private number plate  should  be returned and his credit file amended. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I understand the car has been  collected and 
so now Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc should:
cancel Mr S1s conditional sale agreement;  and
settle Mr S1s previous finance agreement with the third party.
Mr S1 is liable for the negative equity payment that arose from the part exchange of his car 
(£2,912.96) and also the payments that were due under the conditional sale agreement up to 
when the car failed  on 27 June 2018. This amount should be reduced by the following:
1.refund  of the £1,000  deposit;
2.the overpayments made to the third party (that is all payment made  from the date the 
third party  agreement  should have been  settled, that is the conditional sale 
agreement date);
3.the cost of insurance on the car from 27 June 2018 onwards (evidence provided).
Items 1,2 and 3 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc should also arrange the return of the personal number plate 
and cover any costs; pay Mr S1 £250 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been 
caused; and remove  any adverse information  regarding the agreement from Mr S1s credit 
file.
Ref: DRN21446306If Santander considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr S1 how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr S1 a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2144630