K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made 
under her mobile  phone  insurance for theft.
Assurant uses agents to handle claims on its behalf. Any reference to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including anything said or done  by those agents on its behalf.
background
Ms T has told us she travelled abroad on 14 December 2018 via another  country, and that 
she continued to use her phone while in countries that were included in her data allowance. 
Ms T says that while she was away her phone was mostly kept in airplane mode, and she 
used her phone to send messages over wi-fi when it was available.  Although  Ms T says she 
did turn her phone off airplane mode occasionally to check if she had received any text 
messages.
Whilst away Ms T took a short trip to another area of the country,  and she was advised to 
take out insurance. Ms T took this advice on board and took out the mobile phone insurance 
on 24 December 2018.
Ms T tells us that whilst on this trip, visiting a market,  her phone was stolen. She had used it 
to take a photo before placing it in her jacket pocket. She was then distracted by a child 
while someone else took her phone from her pocket.
Ms T says she noticed very shortly after her phone had been  stolen and was able to see 
how the theft took place on security cameras. She also reported the incident to the police  
and has provided  a police report.
On 7 January  2019 when Ms T returned from her trip she attempted  to make a claim for theft 
under her mobile  phone  insurance.
Assurant declined Ms Ts claim and cancelled  her insurance. It said:
Ms T had taken out her policy just a few days before she alleges the theft took place 
and when she made the claim  she told Assurant the theft had taken place on 
23 December 2018 which  would have been  before the policy was taken out.
There hasnt been any usage  on Ms Ts mobile  account since  14 December  2018  
which is before the policy was taken out.
Based on this information Assurant has concluded  that the theft of Ms Ts phone must have 
taken place before she took the policy when she had no insurance on the phone.
It has relied on the following term when doing  so:
It is important that when applying for insurance,  or submitting a claim you or anyone
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions  honestly and to
the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity  of your policy  or the
fulfilment of your claim.
If false or inaccurate information is provided  and fraud is identified then we may:
Ref: DRN21333792 Reject  the claim  and we may cancel your policy. If an excess  has been  paid this will be
returned.
Ms T has told us that she may have given  a slightly different date for the theft of her mobile 
as she was looking at a different calendar  system, and that even though her mobile phone 
was on flight mode  most of the time, she did receive  text messages.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ts complaint and thought Assurant had acted unfairly in 
declining her claim. Our investigator thought Assurant should settle Ms Ts complaint  by 
paying the theft claim. Assurant disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find Ms Ts version  of what  happened, and reasons for having  her phone in flight  mode for 
most of her trip reasonable, she had her phone  in flight mode to save her from incurring 
additional charges . She has also explained  she took out the policy when she was made 
aware that the area she was travelling  to was a higher risk. So I think  Ms Ts reason for 
taking out the policy  when  she did was reasonable. 
I have listened  to the calls between Ms T and Assurant when she discusses  the date the 
theft took place.  It is clear  from these calls that Ms T is considering an alternative calendar  
and says it was the 7th so would make  it the 23rd, she then corrects herself to the 28th. I 
have checked  what date the 7th in the alternative  calendar would  have fallen on in the 
Gregorian calendar and can see it would have  been  28th December 2018.  With this in mind  I 
think its fair to say Ms T wasnt giving incorrect information about  the date the theft took 
place and her explanation  is reasonable.
When Assurant rejected Ms Ts claim it said that it would be able to see from the usage 
when Ms T switched airplane  mode  off on her phone to check her messages. I have since 
spoken to Assurant and it has confirmed that this is not the case  and there  would be no 
record of text messages  being received.
Having considered all the evidence available to me I think  Ms T has given a fair account of 
how the theft of her phone  took place  and reasons why she didnt  use her phone  via her 
network provider while  she was travelling. I also dont  think Assurant has acted fairly in 
declining Ms Ts claim. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons set out above that I uphold this complaint and order  
Assurant General Insurance Limited proceed  with the claim,  subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. If the cover states  that a replacement phone  should be 
provided, but the complainant has already replaced the phone, then a cash settlement 
should be made for the equivalent cost of replacing the phone. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Ref: DRN21333793Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2133379