K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) provided in 
a telephone call. Mr H complains that NS&I wouldnt provide him with information over the 
telephone unless he registered for its online and phone service.  
background
Mr H called NS&I to find out if it had a contact telephone number for him. The NS&I call-
handler said he couldnt provide Mr H with account information because  he hadnt registered  
for its online and phone service. Mr H then said he wished to make a complaint and in total 
the call took approximately 26 minutes.
NS&I responded  to Mr Hs complaint, it explained that for account information  to be 
discussed over the telephone, it requires account  holders to have registered for its online 
and phone service.
It said that this was implemented in December  2010 when it upgraded its systems to allow 
customers to manage their premium bonds online and by telephone. But as part of this it 
required customers to register to use the online and phone service   this was part of its 
security measures. Registering can be done via post.
If someone hadnt registered  as in Mr Hs case when  he called, its staff will be unable to 
make changes to the account for security  reasons. In its final response it provided Mr H with 
a registration form for the online and phone service,  which it says he has since  submitted. 
Its also provided us with a copy of its terms and conditions which say that a customer has to 
register to use its online and phone  service.
Mr H was unhappy with this and wanted  his concerns resolved and compensation. Our 
investigator looked into the case  but didnt think NS&I had done anything wrong and made 
no award. She said that the call-handler had been  correct in what  hed said and NS&I were  
entitled to put in place  such security measures. Mr H disagreed and asked for the case  to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and after listening to the call in question, Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator  and for broadly the same reasons.
During the call, the call-handler explained from the outset that he wouldnt be able to provide  
information about Mr Hs account as Mr H had not registered for the online and phone  
service. Mr H focused on the online aspect of this and the call-handler  explained he could 
think of it as a phone service as he didnt need  to do anything  online if he didnt wish to. Mr H 
wished to raise a complaint as he said the call-handler  was incompetent. The call-handler  
was unable to get a manager or supervisor on the line and said that the complaint would 
take around 15 minutes to setup. Mr H wasnt happy with this and said his time was being 
wasted.
Ref: DRN22162672After reviewing NS&Is terms and conditions, the call-handler was correct  in what he was 
saying. And NS&I are entitled to make  its own business decisions as to how it protects 
customer data and how it runs its organisation as long as it complies  with regulation  and 
legislation. And Ive seen nothing to suggest  that it is not doing so.
The call went on for a long time and perhaps  the request for a complaint to be logged 
couldve been dealt  with quicker.  But ultimately  this occurred because Mr H wouldnt accept 
the correct information he was given  by the call-handler. And so all things considered  I dont 
think any award needs to be made for this.
In conclusion, NS&I  is entitled to put in place security measures to protect customer  data 
and I dont think it did anything wrong in explaining  this to Mr H in the call.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2216267