K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim under his motor  policy  
for less than his car was worth.
background
Mr S car was stolen,  UKI and Mr S didnt agree on the cars  value.  UKI offered £11,540  as 
its final settlement. Mr S didnt  think this was enough  to replace his car with a similar one 
and so brought his complaint to this service.
The policy contains  the following term:
Section  C Fire and theft
What is covered
If your car is lost or damaged as a result  of theft, attempted  theft, fire, lightening or 
explosion, we have  the option  to:


replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost-effective than repairing it: 
or
settle your claim by sending you a cheque or bank transfer.
The most  we will pay
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less 
any excess that may apply)
The policy defines  market  value as follows:
Market value - the cost of replacing your car with another  of the same  make and 
model and of a similar  age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The investigator thought UKIs valuation was fair and in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy and didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree. He feels  
that he isnt able to replace his car with one with a similar spec for the money  UKI is offering 
and has sent us adverts to support this. He also said that the policy  definition  of market  
value is misleading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN28487792My role is not to value  Mr S car, but to make sure UKI has settled  his claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with his policy.
Our approach to assessing a fair market value  takes into account  what  the motor trade 
guides say the market  value is. The guides  we use give a good  reflection  of the true market  
value of a vehicle. 
Mr S says the cars which are similar  are advertised  at a higher price. We dont rely on or find 
adverts persuasive when  assessing a fair market as they are what the seller would like to 
achieve and are often  the starting point  of a negotiation.  
UKI valued Mr S car at £11,540. It did this after it considered the low mileage and the extras 
fitted to the vehicle. 
Our investigator carried out checks on the trade guides, including the optional extras and the 
low mileage, and they returned values of: CAP £11,215,  Glasss £11,200 Parkers £11,405 
and Cazana £12,136. 
I have looked  at all of the extras Mr S noted  his car had and have made  sure these were  
included in the valuations we carried out. Some of the list of extras  he provided show  as 
coming as standard with the particular model  of car he had. And the others  didnt have any 
effect on the value  of the car. When buying a car which is new, added extras  can be 
expensive but the amount paid for these doesnt mean a comparable  increase in the market 
value.
As UKIs valuation is within the range of the valuations  listed,  Im satisfied it has placed  a fair 
valuation on the vehicle and settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms.
Ive considered Mr S point that the definition of Market Value in the policy is misleading 
when compared  to other policies. The definition in this policy  much  like the definition in most  
other policies I have seen,  so I cant agree  with Mr S on this. But, even if I did, it wouldnt 
change how the market value is assessed and so wouldnt make  a difference to the value of 
Mr S car. 
It follows that I wont be asking UKI to increase  the value it placed  on Mr S car.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2848779