K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is in relation to faults with a car he bought in 2016, which  he believes 
should be remedied under  the one-year warranty he took out alongside his purchase.  The 
warranty is provided by Prestige Cars Berkshire Ltd.
The parts of the car Mr F believes there are faults  with are the clutch  and flywheel, the 
braking system, the alternator,  the shock absorbers and suspension,  the water  pump,  
navigation system and gearbox.  
One of my ombudsmen colleagues has already considered the matter of the clutch  and 
flywheel, so those  issues dont form part of this complaint.
background
Mr F bought  a used  car in November 2016. Alongside the car he also purchased  a Silver 
Warranty. This was described in the documentation  as a Service and Maintenance Plan  for 
the vehicle. It required  the car to be correctly serviced, including the manufacturers service 
schedule to be followed. It covered the mechanical  and electrical parts and systems of the 
car which suffered  a breakdown or failure  due to wear and tear. The warranty provided 
cover for 12 months from the date of sale.
Mr F experienced numerous  problems with the car and complained  to the finance  company 
about the quality of it. It was found to be liable for some repairs.  In November 2017 Mr F 
made a claim under  the warranty.
The car was inspected by a total of six different engineers at various times from 
February 2017 to November 2017.  The last of these  inspections was arranged  by Prestige. It 
didnt agree to pay the claim Mr F had made and so he referred his complaint  to this service.
We concluded there were  issues  that should  be covered by the warranty  regarding the clutch  
and flywheel. In relation  to the other issues Mr F believed should  be covered, we were not 
persuaded that there was sufficient evidence to support his contention  the evidence was 
contradictory or inconclusive. As such, we decided that a final independent assessment of 
the car should  be undertaken  to provide a definitive answer  as to whether there were failures 
with the various  parts  of the car and if they were  likely to have been present during the time 
the warranty was in force. 
Mr F was provided with a copy  of the report completed following our involvement. He didnt 
accept that there were  no faults with his car that would be covered under the warranty. As 
such, he asked  us to consider his concerns further.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Fs complaint. He wasnt persuaded there  were  failures that 
would have been covered  by the warranty  with the components  Mr F had raised  complaints  
about. As such,  he didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr F didnt accept the adjudicators  findings  
and asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman. 
Mr F explained that he believed there were links between Prestige and the company that 
completed the independent  assessment and so it was not independent. He didnt believe 
that the assessment had been  done correctly or that it had reached the right conclusions.  He 
referred back to the inspection and report hed had done in May 2017 which found problems 
with the car.
Ref: DRN23995582As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would explain to Mr F that in order to require Prestige  to cover any repairs  to his car under 
the warranty I must have  evidence that there are breakdowns or failures with parts of the car 
between November 2016 and November 2017  that would have represented a valid claim. 
The warranty does not provide for completing works  to the car to put it in a condition  as good  
as new. Given the age of Mr Fs car when it was covered  by the warranty,  it would be 
expected to have suffered wear and tear and not be in a perfect  state. The warranty  would 
only provide for works to the car if the wear and tear had caused breakdowns or failures  in 
the mechanical or electrical parts or systems.  Wear and tear is not sufficient cause for works 
to be needed.
The information contained in the various  reports completed when Mr Fs complaint  was 
initially considered  by this service  was inconsistent. In some there were faults, but in others  
these faults were not detected. Some of this inconsistency may have been down to the type 
of inspection that was done  some were  computer based scans  of the cars systems 
whereas others were  physical inspections. That said, the physical inspections  were not 
consistent either. As such, our adjudicator  suggested that a final independent inspection be 
completed specifically  to identify whether there were faults on the car that could fall within  its 
cover and which were likely to have been present during the term of the warranty. 
The independent inspection was completed  on 23 May 2018.  The report  explains that the 
inspector had been requested to assess the vehicle with a view to determining whether any 
failures/faults identified  were present  during the period the warranty was inforce. Both a 
physical inspection and a road test were completed in order to produce  the report. The 
inspectors conclusion was that the cars condition was in keeping with its age and recorded  
mileage and no defects  requiring  repair or attention were found. When an electronic 
diagnostic test was run one fault was recorded,  but there was no physical fault that matched  
the issue. It was confirmed that there  were no parts on the car that needed replacing.
I know that this will disappoint Mr F, but the most  recent report hasnt identified  failures  or 
breakdowns with any parts of the car that have not already had a claim accepted on them. 
Whilst the car is not in perfect  condition, it doesnt  appear that any of the things that are not 
perfect would  be described  as a breakdown or a failure  the parts of the car that are 
covered appear  to be working as they should,  given  their age and the amount of mileage the 
car has done. As such,  I cant  require Prestige  to complete any further repairs  to Mr Fs car.
Mr F has said that he doesnt think the last inspection was independent as he believes there 
is a social  relationship between the individuals at the inspection  company and Prestige.  
Whilst Mr F may not like the inspectors  findings  that doesnt  mean  they are not accurate or 
independent or that he didnt carry out the inspection as he should have. Mr F has not 
provided any evidence  to substantiate  his allegation;  as such, I dont  propose  to comment on 
this issue further. 
Ref: DRN23995583my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
3 January 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399558