K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limiteds agent caused  further  
damage to the car she was driving when she called for assistance under her sisters 
breakdown recovery  policy.  Miss T is a named driver under the policy.
background
All references to Admiral  include its agents.  
Miss T is a named driver on her sisters  car insurance policy. Admiral  underwrites the 
breakdown recovery  assistance policy alongside  the car insurance policy. 
Miss T called Admiral  for assistance  as she said the car was misfiring. An agent attended 
and recommended the car be taken to a garage for repair.
A garage  looked  at the car the following  day. The garage provided a report  which said the 
ECU was damaged because somebody had removed  ignition coil pack resistors  and put 
them back  in the wrong way. 
Admirals agent said he removed the coil pack resistors after he ran a diagnostic check for 
the car. This check highlighted that there were multiple faults including an ECU problem. The 
agent said there was only one way to put back the coil pack resistors.
Admiral said that the faults the garage identified were faults the agent  identified. So it said 
the faults were  already on the car before the agent  looked at the coil pack. It said there was 
no evidence to show the agents actions  caused further repair  costs  for Miss T. 
Miss T asked us to look at her complaint. She said the agent  attempted  to jump start the car 
and she believes this caused the ECU to be damaged  beyond  repair  and require 
replacement. 
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence for him to say that Admirals  agent had 
caused the damage Miss T claimed  for. 
Miss T didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
When two parties disagree about what happened, we rely on documentary  evidence and 
also consider what  we think  on balance  most  likely happened.  
Miss T told us there were witnesses who could verify what  happened when the agent  
attended her call out. I understand these witnesses  were passengers in the car  and so its 
difficult to say whether  their accounts could be considered independent. However,  in 
October 2018 we explained to Miss T that if she wanted to provide their accounts  to us, we 
would consider them. We didnt receive a reply. 
Ref: DRN27672182So Ive based  my decision on the evidence  available to me. The roadside agent  completed a 
diagnostic report from the call out. This listed several faults. The report  reads;  suspected  
ECU fault  towed  member to home address
When Miss T complained,  she provided  a copy of a report  from the garage  she took the car 
to the following day. This report reads;
Removed and check ignition  coil pack, removed all 4 rubbers to find No4 resistor 
burnt and all 4 resistors and springs were put back round the wrong way by 
recovering company.
Replace ignition coil pack and spark plugs,  run vehicle to find all codes for 5volt 
references still present  and unable to clear and car running rough. Engine ECU was 
damaged due to ignition  coil pack resistors being put round the wrong  way.
The roadside agent told Admiral he carried out the checks first which  listed the faults.  He 
then removed the coil pack to check for corrosion. He found  no corrosion. He told Admiral he 
put the coil pack  resistors back the correct  way. As far as hes aware,  there is only one way 
the pack can be put back. 
The 5volt  faults  the garage identified  were identified by the agent  and are in the diagnostic 
report - before he removed the coil pack.  The agent said he didnt attempt to jump  start the 
car. In any event, after the garage  replaced  the coil pack, the 5volt faults  were  still present 
and the car was still running rough. So Admiral said there wasnt  enough to show  the 
agents actions  caused the damage  Miss T claimed  for. 
I know Miss T is very upset because she is adamant that the agent did attempt to jump start 
her car. She says this action caused the engine  damage which cost her almost £1,000. 
But from the evidence  available, there  isnt enough for me to safely conclude  that the actions 
of the agent  and not the pre-existing faults that led to the call out  caused  the damage  
which Miss T is claiming reimbursement for. 
So I dont  think Admiral  acted unreasonably.  And this means Im not upholding Miss Ts 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2767218