K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) is not of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Ms M took receipt of a used car in June 2017.  She financed the deal through a conditional 
sale agreement with BPF. The car was a little under two years old and had completed  about 
33,000 miles when Ms M took receipt  of it.
In May 2018  she had problems with the car. The timing belt broke and caused  damage to 
the engine. Ms M was disappointed to hear that a missing service stamp invalidated her 
warranty so she referred  her complaint to BPF.
BPF said the warranty was not financed by them so they could not consider that aspect of 
Ms Ms complaint. They explained that, as the car had been in Ms Ms possession  for some 
time and they were  only responsible for the quality of the car at the point of supply, she 
would need to provide evidence the fault was developing at that point.
So Ms M arranged an independent inspection  of the car in August 2018. The inspector said 
the timing mechanism had failed quite  suddenly. He said the condition of the engine  oil 
suggested the engine was working under stress  elsewhere in the run up to the failure.  He 
didnt confirm that the fault was developing at the point the car was supplied  to Ms M.
Our adjudicator considered the independent inspectors report but he wasnt  persuaded 
there was evidence the fault was present or developing  at the point of supply and he 
explained this was the only time at which BPF were responsible for the cars quality. He 
therefore didnt  support  Ms Ms complaint and he explained that he could not consider the 
warranty problem as it was not something BPF had financed.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicator. She noted that the independent inspector had 
explained the timing mechanism  was a sealed unit that needed no direct  maintenance. So 
she said it followed the problem must  have been present from the beginning. She noted that 
whilst the inspector hadnt said the fault was present at the point of supply, he also hadnt 
said it wasnt. Ms M therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Ms M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN22690862board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired  her car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BPF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Ms M. The car here 
was about two years old and had travelled 33,000  miles so Id expect some limited  wear and 
tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BPF to put this right. 
But BPFs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
BPF are right to suggest that legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the case.
Ive read the independent inspectors report that Ms M relies  upon to demonstrate the fault 
was pre-existing but Im not persuaded theres  sufficient evidence  in the report, or 
elsewhere, to support  her assertion.
The inspector explained that the timing  chain had jumped and that this had corrupted the 
engine valve  timing  and damaged the engine beyond repair.  
He noted that the engine oil had deteriorated  and was contaminated with high levels  of iron 
and aluminium which suggested engine wear  had taken place elsewhere.  But he also 
suggested that the timing mechanism is one of the least likely places to be affected by 
engine oil that was deteriorating. He says thats the case because  the timing  mechanism 
operates at lower  temperatures.  
He doesnt suggest that the timing  mechanism failure was developing at the point of supply 
so I dont think it would be fair to suggest its BPFs responsibility to take any further action.
Ref: DRN22690863Ive considered Ms Ms interpretation  of the report too. She suggests  that, as the timing  
mechanism is a sealed unit, it must be the case that the fault was inherent. I dont agree with 
that suggestion. It seems  to me that timing belts are moving parts that will not last forever as 
theyre affected by wear  and tear. The expert  has explained that the timing mechanism 
appears to have failed suddenly.  Hes not suggested  the fault was developing or was 
present when the car was supplied  to Ms M and I therefore think  it would be unreasonable to 
ask BPF to take any further action.
I note that the inspector does think its likely the warranty was misrepresented  to Ms M. In 
those circumstances  she may wish to pursue a claim  for misrepresentation against the 
dealership through the courts.  But as the warranty wasnt funded by BPF I cant  consider 
that complaint  against them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2269086