K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the shortfall suffered  by his endowment policy  provided by Scottish  
Widows Limited.  He says he didnt get all the warning  letters from the business as he should 
have. As a result he says the business  should pay him some or all of the shortfall.
background
Mr R complained to the business. It accepted it hadnt written  to him as it should have. It 
offered a modest  sum for that failure. It invited Mr R to explain how its failure to write  had 
directly caused any loss to him. If he could do so it would consider compensating Mr R for 
those losses. However  Mr R produced  nothing to show he had lost as a direct result  of the 
business failures. Therefore it was not prepared to increase its offer of redress. Unhappy  
with that Mr R came to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the file. In effect she agreed  with the business. She said 
that although the business had got things wrong its offer was fair. Unless it could be shown 
Mr R would have taken  a different  course  of action  had the letters been sent, and that 
different course  of action would have been better  financially for him, she couldnt say she 
thought the complaint should  be upheld further.
It seems  that letters were sent and received by Mr R from 2000 to 2013.  They were the 
letters required by the regulator and warned him of possible  shortfalls.  For reasons to do 
with systems failures the letters then stopped. As a result of the letters he did get however, 
according to the business, Mr R complained  to the selling agent for the policy and received  
redress. He also converted and/or paid off his mortgage and so no longer relied  on the 
policy.
As the adjudicator didnt think the complaint  should be upheld further, Mr R asked that an 
ombudsman review the file and it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes Mr Rs most recent email. 
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint  any further than it has already been upheld.  
I appreciate this isnt what Mr R wants.
It may help if I summarise the present situation.  As a result of letters  from the business Mr R 
complained to the selling agent for the policy. His complaint  was upheld and he was 
compensated. Then the business  stopped  sending  warning  letters  to him after 2013. He 
complained about that and again was successful. The only issue I have  to decide is whether 
the offer of redress  made  by the business is fair or not.
We are here to try and resolve disputes. We do not fine, punish or regulate  businesses. That 
is the job of the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority. If a business actions or failures 
to act have caused financial loss then I can direct that the business  concerned  pays that loss 
to a consumer. I can make addition awards  for the trouble and upset caused  if I think  it fair to 
do so, but such  payments  are not to compensate for loss. They  are simply marks of how a 
consumer has been put to trouble and upset and should be given an award  to acknowledge 
that. They are exactly the kind of payment  the business is offering here.
Ref: DRN26101482Here, Mr R obtained redress  for the mis-sale  of the policy. He has also been  offered 
something for the trouble  and upset the business  failures  to write to him will have caused.  
The business has invited  Mr R to explain  what additional losses  he may have incurred as a 
result of the failures  but he hasnt done  so. I think the business makes  a very good  point  in 
any event. If Mr R did nothing (other than complain  about the sale)  between  2000 and 2013 
then why would he have taken action after 2013 if the business had got things right and 
written to him as it should have.
I have seen nothing  to persuade me that, on balance, if Mr R had received  all the letters he 
should have, that he would have  done  anything different. It is of course impossible to know 
what someone would have done in a situation like this. All I can do is make a judgment on 
the balance of probabilities, (what I think is most likely), and here that means I see nothing to 
persuade me that Mr R has lost as a result  of the business failures. In response  to Mr Rs 
latest mail,  unless he could have produced evidence of different  action  he took or would 
have taken had he received the missing letters, it is very unlikely they would have made any 
difference.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  If Mr R wants to accept the business offer he should contact it 
direct. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2610148