K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company  UK Limited (Catlin) wont pay in full a 
claim he made under his travel insurance policy for personal possessions  stolen  while he 
was on holiday abroad.
background
In January 2019, while Mr C was on holiday  abroad,  his rucksack and contents were stolen 
from the room where he was sleeping. He reported the theft at the local police station, as 
required by his travel  policy, and on his return he submitted a claim to Catlin.  The items he 
claimed for were:
Sony A6000 camera;
San Disc Memory card;
headphones;
Go Pro batteries;
Acer Laptop;
Go Pro camera;
speaker;
hard drive; and
portable charger. 
The total amount  of his claim was for £1,973.96.  He claimed under the Personal 
Possessions and Baggage section of his policy, the relevant sections of which were as 
follows:
What you are covered  for
1.We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the value or cost of 
repair of any of your own personal possessions (not hired, loaned or entrusted  to you) 
which are lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed (after making allowance for wear and tear 
and depreciation).  
What you are NOT covered for
1.the excess shown  in the summary  of cover;
2.
3.loss or theft unless  you have reported the loss or theft to the nearest police authority as 
soon as practicably  possible  after discovery  and have obtained a written police report;
Personal Possessions  were defined in the policy  as Suitcases (or other luggage  carriers)  
and their contents taken  on your trip together with articles  worn or carried  by you for your 
individual use during your trip.
The Summary of Cover  in the Policy contained, for Personal Possessions  and Baggage, an 
excess per person per claim of £180, and a limit of up to £3,000. Mr C valued  the items  lost 
at £1,973.96, and claimed  for this amount. 
Catlin accepted  his claim, but said it would only pay out £400. It said all the items fell under 
the definition of Valuables in the policy, namely:
Ref: DRN27318562Jewellery, articles made of gold silver or other precious metals,  precious or semi-precious  
stones, watches, binoculars, telescopes, photographic equipment  electronic audio  or video 
equipment and any computer equipment (including  software), furs, or leather clothing (apart 
from footwear).
It said the Summary of Cover in the Policy contained  a separate  Valuables Limit of up to 
£400. So it would only pay out £400  in respect of Mr Cs claim.
Our investigator said that while  a Valuables Limit  was included in the Summary  of Cover at 
the beginning of the policy,  there was no mention in the Personal Possessions  and Baggage 
Section of the policy either of Valuables or of the Valuables Limit. So the operative part of 
the policy didnt  allow Catlin  to limit its liability by capping the payment  at £400.
At best, the wording was ambiguous. So she recommended that Catlin  reassess Mr Cs 
claim as if the Policy didnt contain  a Valuables Limit of £400, but subject to the other Policy 
terms and conditions.
Catlin responded to say, in summary, that to have a separate policy  limit in respect of 
valuable items wasnt  unusual. In this case the limit was contained in the Summary of Cover  
along with the other  limits  on the Policy, including the limit for Personal Possessions and 
Baggage.
So it thought  the limit for Valuables had been  made  sufficiently clear  to Mr C, and Catlin 
should be able to rely on it in this claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We consider that information about  policy limits  should be set out clearly both in the policy  
summary and in the policy terms and conditions. However the wording of this Policy only 
sets out half the story.
In the Summary of Cover,  it says there is a Valuables Limit. But when one looks  at the 
section setting out cover for Personal  Possessions  and Baggage, it is silent about how,  if at 
all, this relates to Valuables. 
In other  travel  policies  I have seen, mention is made  in this section  of the Policy of other 
limits that apply to claims for possessions, such as a valuables limit, and/or a single item 
limit, which makes it clear all the relevant limits that apply to a claim under this section.
If this is omitted, it can lead a consumer  to think, as Mr C did, that the only limit that applies 
is the one for whats mentioned in this section of the policy, namely Personal Possessions 
and Baggage.  I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr C to read the Policy in this way.
Where the wording of a policy  is confusing or ambiguous,  we think the meaning to be 
applied is the one most favourable to the consumer. So like the investigator I dont think  its 
reasonable for Catlin to apply a Valuables Limit cap of £400 to Mr Cs claim.
I agree  that Catlin should now deal with Mr Cs claim on the basis that the Valuables Limit of 
£400 doesnt apply to his claim, but otherwise on the terms and conditions  of the Policy.
Ref: DRN27318563my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order XL Catlin Insurance  Company UK 
Limited to deal with Mr Cs claim on the basis that the Valuables Limit of £400  doesnt apply 
to his claim,  but otherwise  on the terms and conditions of the Policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2731856