K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
According to Santanders records Mr S and Ms C bought the policy  in 1997 at the same time 
as taking out a mortgage. They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
While the policy was jointly held,  it provided  cover for Mr S only (the benefit split was 100% 
in his favour) for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions  and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £340 a month towards Mr S and Ms Cs mortgage  balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £23.32  a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a factory  worker.  He has told us he was entitled to some  
sick pay but didnt  have any other means of repaying their mortgage should he be unable  to 
work. Mr S has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  Mr S has made no 
mention of his entitlement to redundancy pay  but given his employment  tenure he wouldve 
been entitled to some statutory redundancy pay.
Ms C was employed as a care worker. She told us she was entitled  to six months sick pay 
and was entitled to redundancy pay of twice her annual salary. But she didnt have any other  
means, such as savings, she couldve used to meet their mortgage payments should  she be 
unable to work. Ms C has said she too was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2006.
Mr S and Ms Cs representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr S and Ms Cs representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S and Ms C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S and Ms 
Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr S and Ms C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr S and Ms C 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN25758512The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr S and Ms C received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S and Ms C disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S and Ms Cs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Ms Cs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of that Act and the rules  and guidance  
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.  There were  a number of industry codes in 
existence at that time, which I am satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association  of 
British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all intermediaries 
(Including Employees of Insurance  Companies) other than Registered Insurance Brokers  
The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN25758513The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S and Ms Cs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr S and Ms Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr S and Ms C with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr S and Ms C sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN25758514-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S 
and Ms C, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr S and Ms C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and Ms C 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Ms Cs complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr S and Ms C know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Santander no longer has any of the mortgage or PPI paperwork from the time of the sale. 
This isnt surprising given things  happened  many years ago. Its also the case that the 
mortgage account itself has been  closed for several  years. But it does  mean that I dont 
know how PPI was introduced to Mr S and Ms C.
But given the policy was in joint names  but split 100% in favour of Mr S, this suggests  to me 
that there  was a discussion about  PPI including the respective merits of Mr S and Ms C each 
having cover.
So taking everything into account  and importantly in the absence of persuasive  evidence 
to suggest otherwise - I think its more likely that Mr S and Ms C knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it did provide advice during this sale. Mr S and Ms C say they cant 
remember. But given Santanders own testimony is that it provided advice, Im persuaded 
that it more likely than not provided advice to Mr S and Ms C when it sold them PPI.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr S and Ms C with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
Because of the lack of documentary evidence, I dont know what  steps Santander took to 
establish whether  the policy was a suitable  recommendation  for Mr S and Ms C. 
I think its reasonable to assume that the adviser  had some limited information  about Mr S 
and Ms Cs financial circumstances  from the mortgage application  they would have likely 
had to complete.  
But there is no available evidence to show the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr S 
as the policyholder would have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet their needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr S had any pre-existing medical  
conditions. 
Ref: DRN25758515Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander likely did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr S and Ms C given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander likely did all it should have  done  to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr S and Ms C, I do think its more  likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr S and Ms C had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr S and Ms Cs ability  
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Mr S was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
employee benefits they say Mr S would have  been  entitled  to. They didnt have  any 
savings they could fall back on, so the policy would have  helped Mr S and Ms C 
manage the consequences  if Mr S was unable to work.
-Given it appears Ms C had greater employee  benefits than Mr S, it seems  
reasonable to me that the policy benefit was in Mr S sole name  it appears he had 
the greatest  need for cover. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr S and Ms C. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S and Ms C. 
There was nothing  about Mr S employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. It also doesnt appear that there were 
any additional restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any other  
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr S be disabled  or unemployed 
for eight weeks before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy  would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr S circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
qualification period)  and the limits  to those provisions,  which mean the policy 
could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr S and Ms C be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr S and Ms C 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN25758516Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S and Ms C were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr S was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr S and Ms 
C would  have taken  out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. Im mindful too that as I said above,  the fact the policy was in 
joint names but the benefit was attributed to Mr S suggests some  kind of discussion about  
the nature  of cover and the respective merits of each of them  being  covered took place.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr S and Ms C agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S and Ms C Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr S and Ms C all 
of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S and Ms Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr S and 
Ms Cs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S and Ms Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S and Ms C about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to Mr S and Ms C. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S and Ms Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  
While I cant be certain  what  a court  would  say  I think  its unlikely a court  would find that 
this extended  to the insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information  or explaining the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mr S and Ms C have suggested. 
And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of good industry practice  
applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Santander  
ought to have done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr S and Ms C? To what extent  did 
Mr S and Ms C suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN25758517Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr S 
and Ms C. So I have gone  on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr S and Ms C suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr S and Ms C would  have still taken  out the policy, had Santander 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr S and Ms C, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S and Ms C have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr S and Ms C would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr S and Ms C say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S and Ms C had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event Mr 
S was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr S and Ms Cs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr S and Ms C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, theres no evidence to show that Santander told them the exact 
premium at the point  Mr S and Ms C applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely 
Mr S and Ms C would have been  told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with Santander  at the time or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S and Ms C would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr S and Ms C would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr S and Ms 
Cs expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Ref: DRN25758518Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S and Ms C thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S knew  about 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his normal job or any job which his experience, education or training reasonably  
enabled him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr S and Ms C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S and Ms C from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr S and Ms Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr S was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr S wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt appear to exclude back or mental health  conditions  or place any additional  
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr S 
and Ms C would  have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr S and Ms C had known  they could only claim for disability  if Mr S was not only unable 
to do his job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  given  both their circumstances including 
the fact that the policy was protecting their home,  on balance,  I still think  they would have 
still been interested in taking out the cover.
Santander may not have told Mr S and Ms C that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 24 months  was a longer period than Mr S would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
Ref: DRN25758519And in those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr S and Ms C would  still have thought a 
policy that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would  have been  of benefit to them  
and would help them manage the consequences  should Mr S be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve some of Mr S employee  benefits for other 
ongoing household and fixed  expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S and Ms C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr S was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not Mr S 
and Ms C would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr S and Ms Cs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S and Ms C would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr S and Ms 
Cs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr S 
and Ms C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S and Ms C believe the presumption  may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S and Ms C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN257585110That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr S and Ms C compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S and Ms C think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr S and 
Ms C, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1997  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr S and Ms Cs representative  says a court might take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr S and Ms C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr S and Ms C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2575851