K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont write  off a credit card debt he owes despite 
being aware that hes suffering from some  serious  health problems. 
background
Mr M opened a credit  card with Santander  in September 2017 and transferred balances  he 
owed elsewhere  to the account. 
In September  2018 Mr M told Santander that hed been suffering from a serious health 
condition over the last 12 months and that he would need treatment for at least  a further  five 
years. 
Because of his health problems Mr M asked  Santander to write off the debt but it declined 
his request. Mr M raised his concerns and Santander paid him compensation for a number 
of errors it made whilst looking into the complaint.  But Santander didnt agree to write  off the 
debt on medical grounds. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and an investigator looked  into what  had 
happened. They thought  Santanders decision was reasonable and didnt recommend that it 
write off the debt.  Mr M didnt feel the investigators view was fair so asked for his case to be 
appealed. As a result, the complaints been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Ms health  problems have  caused a lot of additional  stress  and upset to 
him and his wife. Mr Ms given us detailed reasons explaining why he feels Santander 
should write off the credit  card debt on medical  and compassionate grounds.  Ive read 
everything Mr Ms sent us and records of all the conversations hes had with the investigator 
since raising the complaint. I hope  Mr M wont  take it as a discourtesy that Im not going to 
respond to each comment hes made and will focus  on what  I feel are the key issues  here. 
The main  focus  of Mr Ms complaint is that Santander wont  write off the debt. And whilst  I 
have sympathy for Mr M, I havent  found  Santanders decision  is unfair.  Ill explain why. 
When Mr M first told Santander about  his health problems it agreed to stop applying  interest  
and charges to his account. I appreciate Mr M wants Santander to write off the debt but its 
not obliged to take that step.  When a business is notified that a customer isnt in a position to 
maintain their payments it has to treat them positively and sympathetically. But that doesnt 
mean it has to agree  to writing off a debt and there are a range of options that can be 
considered. In this case, I think its decision to suspend interest and charges was a 
reasonable approach to take.  I also note Santander passed the account to a specialist team  
to look after while it tried to reach  a payment  arrangement  with Mr M. 
The investigator noted in their findings that Mr M opened the credit card after his diagnosis  
and that his health problems are currently being  managed. They  also said that Santander 
could consider other options to recover the debt and that Mr M had received the benefit of 
Ref: DRN23247142the money he borrowed. Im satisfied that Santanders decision not to write off the debt is fair 
in light of those  points. 
As Ive said above,  Santander is free to decide  whether  to write off a debt. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr M but, from what Ive seen,  Santanders acted fairly  and reasonably when 
dealing with him and I havent been  persuaded to tell it to write  the credit  card debt off. 
Santander recently told us Mr Ms account is on hold but will be passed to the collections 
department once this investigation  is complete.  Santanders explained  that it will move to 
default the account if payment isnt received  or an acceptable payment arrangement isnt 
agreed. Mr Ms told us that he wants Santander  to default the debt now and that he doesnt 
want to be contacted more than once  a year once  the defaults  in place. 
But I cant tell Santander how to process a default  or when  it should  go through.  Thats  up to 
Santander to decide based  on its procedures and Mr Ms account. How Santander contacts 
customers after a default is applied is also something it can decide,  but it should  take Mr Ms 
circumstances into account.  I appreciate Mr M only wants to be contacted  once a year but as 
he is still liable for the outstanding debt Santander may decide  to contact him more often 
than that. 
There were a range of administrative  errors  and some confusing  information given to Mr M 
whilst his complaint was being  investigated. While these dont form part of Mr Ms main  
complaint Ive looked at the settlements paid and Im satisfied theyre fair. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr M and Santander have said and sent us. Having done  
so, Im satisfied that Santanders decision not to write off the debt is reasonable. I havent 
found any evidence  of an error  or mistake in Santanders decision. From what Ive seen I 
think Santanders dealt  with Mr Ms complaint fairly  so Im not telling it to take any further  
action to resolve it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 March 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2324714