K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2003. Mr M says Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr M says he didnt  know the PPI had been added to his mortgage and that it was added  
without his consent.
Halifax hasnt been able to send us the paperwork from Mr Ms mortgage.  But it has sent us 
samples of what it says the paperwork wouldve  looked like. And these samples make it 
clear that the PPI is optional.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Halifax did make it clear  to Mr M that he 
had a choice about the PPI. And that he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, he 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
And hes told us he wasnt  entitled  to any sick pay from his employer if he was unable to 
work due to illness.
Mr M has said he had significant savings available, and so didnt need the PPI. But the PPI 
couldve paid out for significantly longer than the savings  wouldve been able to replace his 
salary. And it wouldve meant  he could  use his savings for other expenses,  rather than his 
mortgage repayments, if he wasnt earning. So I still think the policy  was right for him.
As well as checking it was right for him, Halifax had to give Mr M clear information about  the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave him wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mr Ms property couldve been at risk if hed 
failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the policy offered 
appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would 
have been useful for Mr M if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr M off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr M some of the commission he paid 
back.
The Supreme Court ruling and Financial Conduct  Authority  rules and guidance on 
commission only apply to credit agreements taken  out on or after 6 April 2007,  or 
agreements taken out before then, which were still running on 6 April 2008. Halifax  has 
given me information  that shows Mr Ms mortgage  was taken out in 2003 and ended in 2004.
Ref: DRN27958102So the rules and guidance dont  apply, and Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr M paid for the PPI he had with this mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2795810