K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs D applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  because Santander recommended  the 
policy to Mr and Mrs D. But I dont think it was right for them  because  Mr D had a medical  
condition which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. I think this wouldve been 
important to Mr and Mrs D, as it was the type of condition that can cause  problems on and 
off over long periods of time. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs D wouldve bought the policy  if Santander had made clear it wasnt  
right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs D lost out because of what Santander  did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about how the 
exclusion of Mr Ds medical condition  wouldve been  explained to Mr and Mrs D during the 
sales process. But Santander has provided  no convincing evidence  that makes  me think  this 
actually happened. Or that Mr and Mrs D took out the PPI knowing about this important 
restriction in cover. So I still think I should uphold  the complaint
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs D in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. Santander  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% per year.  
If Mr and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Ref: DRN22013482my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2201348