K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  about a shower  they purchased from a retailer using finance from 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. They say it is faulty and want £1,064.90  compensation to put the 
problem right. They bring this complaint under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a loan with Hitachi on 4 March 2017 to finance an on-suite shower  
room. They  put down an initial deposit of £341.19 with a credit borrowing of £3,070.71  (to be 
repaid over 12 months). When they used the shower  they noted that it did not drain properly 
and excessive water was collecting in the shower  tray. They  instructed an expert  who 
concluded that the shower tray and waste ordered and supplied should have been  fitted  with 
a fast flow waste.  
Mr and Mrs K referred their complaint to a specialist ombudsman who reviewed the case,  
and got the retailer to instruct an expert, following this report  the other  ombudsman  did not 
uphold their complaint.  In view of the findings  of the other ombudsman  Hitachi refused  to 
uphold the complaint. It concluded the retailer  was not at fault.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint  as he felt Hitachi had done nothing  wrong  by 
basing its decision on the other  ombudsmans  findings.
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy with the findings and believed that more reliance should have 
been placed on their expert report. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I felt Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should  be upheld.  
I invited further comments  from the parties  before I reconsidered the complaint and issued 
my final decision. 
A detailed  response  was received from Hitachi after it spoke to the retailer.  Mr and Mrs K 
were given the opportunity to comment on this further information.
Comments by Hitachi
Hitachi stated that the shower tray was supplied with the recommended  waste which  is what  
was on Mr K and Mrs Ks order and this was installed  at the property. It stated  that the 
instructions supplied by Mr K was for a different shower tray and not the one purchased  and 
fit at Mr and Mrs Ks property so Hitachi said this was not relevant.  Furthermore,  the retailer  
thought any problem could be rectified by removing the tray and the amount of 
compensation Mr and Mrs K wanted  was excessive. It maintained  that Mr and Mrs K were  
supplied with the correct combination of products and it should not have to pay for any work 
to be done.
Comments by Mr and Mrs K.
In response to the comments received  Mr and Mrs K pointed out that going  through the 
ceiling was recommended  by their expert  as the most cost effective way of dealing with the 
problem and the least intrusive. To remove the tray, as they suggest,  would actually be far 
more expensive, extremely  distressing and inconvenient.  The tray is bedded down on 
cement and would damage  the tray itself, the surrounding  tiles in the shower and the floor. 
Regarding comments  about the shower tray, Mr and Mrs K pointed  out that, everything was 
ordered by the retailers design consultant  after an in-store consultation and subsequent 
home visit by the retailers installer. Mr and Mrs K confirmed that the assembly  instructions  
Ref: DRN27923952provided with the tray clearly stated  the strong recommendation that the product should be 
installed using a fast flow waste, and also states the "Assembly guide applies to all slim line 
shower trays".  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the additional arguments  provided  in response to my provisional  decision, 
but having considered these, my final decision is that I am upholding the complaint.  I am 
satisfied from Mr and Mrs Ks information  that the instructions apply to all slim line shower  
trays as this is what the instructions  state. Furthermore, everything was ordered  by the 
retailers design consultant after an in store consultation and home visit. So although Mr and 
Mrs K were  supplied with the goods ordered, they were following the advice of the retailers 
design consultant. The combination of products ordered has resulted in the shower tray 
filling up to quickly. This is not Mr and Mrs Ks fault. 
As I stated in my provisional decision,  we can only ask Hitachi to do something if theres 
been a breach of contract or the goods were misrepresented at the time of sale. Mr and Mrs 
K say the goods were not satisfactory  as a fast flow waste should  have  been  used. They  
base this on their expert report. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
As I noted  in my provisional decision we have  two expert reports, one instructed by Mr and 
Mrs K and the other by the retailer  for the other  ombudsman, the retailers report  states  in 
my view the shower tray and waste is normal and satisfactory even though the tray will fill up 
during use due to the flow rate from the shower  head. I am not aware of the information 
communicated during the design process for the bathroom and so I am unable to express  an 
opinion about  whether  or not any specific requirements were  expressed by the consumer or 
whether any specific information  was provided to the consumer about the use of a shallow 
tray with standard waste outlet together with a pumped shower. In the absence of any such 
representations I would  consider the shower  to be functioning normally  and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs Ks expert tested the shower  and noted  that after 3 to 4 minutes  the shower tray 
completely filled to the depth of the tray only draining once the shower  was turned off. The 
expert noted that, the shower waste was a standard waste  but the shower tray specifications  
listed on the shower tray assembly guide,  and on the retailers  website confirm  a fast flow 
waste should be fitted in conjunction with this type of shower tray. He also stated that British  
Standards state  that a fast flow trap must  exceed flow rates  up to and greater than 32 litres 
per minute. He noted that Mr and Mrs K engaged  the retailer to design  and install  a new en 
suite bathroom to replace  existing en-suite. A shower pump was in situ and it is reasonable 
to expect that this should have been taken  into account both at the design  consultation  and 
home inspection  visit by the retailers  installer,  prior to installation. He recommended  a fast 
flow waste was put in place.
Whilst I note the comments from Hitachi that the installation  guide is for a different product, I 
accept it applies to all slim line shower  trays and the instructions; strongly recommend the 
use of a fast flow waste with this product.
Ref: DRN27923953As stated in my provisional decision, on balance  I find that the shower  is not satisfactory 
based on Mr and Mrs Ks expert  report.  I prefer their report as it refers  to the installation 
guide which strongly recommends the use of a fast flow waste  with this product. Further,  it is 
reasonable to expect  that a shower can be used without the tray completely filing up within  
3-4 minutes. In this case the retailer was providing and installing the produce and any 
reasonable person would expect the shower  to drain  when in use and would not expect to 
have to specify this at the time the product is purchased. Mr and Mrs K were provided  with 
what they ordered, but their order was based  on the retailers  design consultants advice.
I note that Hitachi  thinks  the compensation sought  is unreasonable as the shower could be 
remedied by replacing  the tray. Mr and Mrs K have based their figure on their expert, who 
has examined the shower, and advised  that this is the most cost affective way to deal with 
the problem. Hitachi has not provided  any detailed counter proposal or evidence of how 
much it would cost to remedy the shower by removing the tray. I do not think that Mr and Mrs 
Ks claim  is unreasonable  as it is based  on their expert evidence. 
I uphold this complaint  and award  £1,064.90 compensation and £200  for distress and 
inconvenience. Mr and Mrs K have explained  that this complaint  has caused them much 
distress and has been ongoing for two years.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay Mr 
and Mrs K £1064.90,  and £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Clare Hockney
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792395