K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt  add interest to a refund hes received in 
relation to a loan. 
 
background
Mr L had a loan with Barclays which went into arrears in 2013.  Barclays  recently looked back  
at the information it sent Mr L while his loan was in arrears and found it hadnt followed the 
rules correctly. Barclays wrote to Mr L in January 2019 and explained  it wanted  to refund 
£74.22 because of the mistakes it had made. 
Mr L complained and said Barclays should pay interest on the refund. Mr L says that if hed 
owed Barclays money for four years  it wouldve charged him. Barclays didnt agree so Mr L 
referred his complaint to our service  and an investigator looked at it. 
The investigator didnt  think it would be fair to tell Barclays to increase its refund  offer.  They 
explained that whilst Barclays had made  a mistake, it had made  a technical error which 
didnt impact Mr L. The investigator also noted Mr L hadnt been overcharged as a result of 
the error.  Mr L didnt  accept the investigators  view so his complaints  been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has offered the refund because it made some mistakes  while  Mr L was in arrears 
with his loan. Barclays has told us it shouldve sent Mr L some letters about the arrears but 
didnt which  is why its offering a refund  now. The investigator says Barclays made a 
technical error and I think that fairly  describes whats happened.  Barclays has offered the 
refund because it failed to send the right information to Mr L, not because he was 
overcharged. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls argument that in the same situation  Barclays  would 
charge him for owing  it money. I appreciate Mr Ls point  but this service isnt here to punish  
of fine Barclays, even  where its agreed a mistake was made. Were an informal  dispute 
resolution service and one of our key concerns is whether an error or mistake  by a business 
has led to a loss for the customer. In this case,  I agree an error was made but I havent 
found that error led to a loss for Mr L. 
Thats because Mr L wasnt overcharged  as a result of Barclays mistake. And whilst  he 
didnt receive the correct  letters,  that doesnt  appear  to have impacted Mr Ls situation 
because he was able to repay  the arrears and later refinance the loan.  
I can award compensation if I think a business error  caused  trouble and upset  to a 
customer. But in this case, Mr L wasnt overcharged and I havent found anything  to show  
his situation was made worse as a result  of Barclays failure to send him the right letters. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr L but as I havent  found Barclays error unreasonably  impacted him 
Im not telling it to increase the offer its made.  
Ref: DRN25569822Barclays found it hadnt sent Mr L the right letters in 2013 so offered to refund interest 
charged around that time.  I take on board Mr Ls comments, but for the reasons Ive given 
above Im satisfied the £74.22 refund Barclaycards  offered  is fair in all the circumstances so 
Im not telling it to increase the offer or take any further action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2556982