K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Barclays  Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard  (Barclaycard)  didnt do 
enough to help him previously when he complained to them about the unaffordability of his 
credit card account.
background
Mr W says a refund of charges from Barclaycard on 10 October  2018  contradicted  their 
response to his initial complaint about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending. He thought by 
refunding these charges now Barclaycard admitted they didnt do enough to help previously 
and shouldve refunded the charges back then. He thought Barclaycard should refund  all 
charges and interest and pay 8% interest on the amount  of the refund. He also thought 
Barclaycard should  remove the default and adverse entries on his credit  file and pay him as 
well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience this situation  had caused  him.
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint. They  said the refund to Mr W was of interest, fees 
and charges applied during a period in which they may not have provided  the service  they 
should. They  said not all customers  were impacted but to ensure a prompt  refund to those 
affected everyone was refunded. On investigating  Barclaycard said they had provided Mr W 
with the support required by suspending  interest  and charges on his account.  And they 
thought having provided support  they didnt consider him an impacted customer and so their 
refund to him was a gesture of goodwill. Barclaycard also said as the default was applied in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the account  it was correct and they wouldnt look to 
remove it. Mr W brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator initially didnt think we could look at Mr Ws complaint about the account 
being defaulted as it had been considered in an earlier complaint where  a final response  had 
been issued on 23 May 2017. In respect  of the other issues Mr W raised regarding the 
refund applied to his account in October  2018 she was unable to identify that a banking  error 
had occurred so didnt uphold the complaint.  She thought recording the default  was correct 
due to the non payment of the account  during the repayment plan. She thought all the 
charges and interest had been applied  in accordance with the Terms and Conditions at the 
time. And as Barclaycard's policy review began in March  2018, at the time of Mr Ws 
previous complaint, they didn't have to refund  any charges at that time. The adjudicator  
thought Barclaycard werent obliged to refund  charges  in situations which involve  financial 
difficulty but to provide  appropriate assistance for long term financial improvement, such as 
reduced payment  arrangement, reviewing income  and expenditure, which they did over the 
years for Mr W. So she felt Barclaycard  had acted positively and sympathetically to Mr Ws 
needs by setting up a suitable  payment plan. 
Mr W told us he neither  agreed nor accepted the adjudicators findings  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.
After this the adjudicator took the view that we could  now consider the default as the issue in 
this complaint was different to the case in 2017. She said in 2017 the issue was 
irresponsible lending  - Mr W thought Barclaycard shouldnt have lent to him  and, therefore, 
if they hadnt he wouldnt have had the default  applied. But the adjudicator thought  now Mr 
W was saying if the business hadnt applied the charges  (refunded  under the review) then 
his account wouldnt  have defaulted.  Barclaycard didnt object to this service now looking at 
the default only in relation to the interest charges. The adjudicator took the view that the 
charges were applied  correctly at the time and that even had the charges not been  applied 
she still thought  the default wouldve happened. Mr W didnt reply to this additional view. 
Ref: DRN24984792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this isnt a complaint which I can properly uphold and Ill explain why.
The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in the letter  of 
22 February 2019 giving her view on this case.  So I wont  repeat it here.  And I have to say 
theres not a great deal I can add to what the adjudicators already told Mr W. I think  shes  
covered most points  quite clearly.
were the original charges applied correctly?
The information Barclaycard have sent me satisfies me that the charges were applied  in line 
with the terms and conditions in force, which Mr W agreed to on opening the account.
the refund  of charges
Mr W thinks the refund contradicts the banks response  to his initial complaint about 
irresponsible and unaffordable lending. He thinks by refunding these charges Barclaycard 
are admitting  they didnt do enough  to help previously and shouldve  refunded  the charges 
back then. But I dont  agree. They blanket  policy Barclaycard have told us theyve taken to 
refund everyone  affected shouldnt be taken as an admission of liability.  And I agree that the 
action Barclaycard had already taken in suspending  interest and charges between 2012  and 
2013 and after August  2014 resulted in Mr W not being one of the customers  impacted by 
the failings.
Barclaycards response to Mr Ws financial difficulties
When a customer reports financial difficulties banks  are expected to respond positively and 
sympathetically. From everything  Ive seen I think thats what  Barclaycard did here. In 
response to Mr Ws difficulties they set up an initial payment  plan in December 2012, 
reviewed it in December  2013 and corresponded  with Mr W throughout 2014 about  the 
revised payment  plan and then took the correct steps to default  the account.
should the default on Mr Ws credit file for this account be removed?
Mr W thinks Barclaycard  should now remove the default and if they hadnt applied the - now 
refunded charges - this account wouldnt have defaulted. But Im afraid I dont agree. 
Charges under the payment plan from December 2013 were only to apply if Mr W didnt 
make payment. He only made one payment so the charges were applied  in line with the 
agreement. But even without those charges this account - opened in 2011 - had been  in a 
payment plan since December 2012.  And under that payment plan for the year up to 
December 2013  the account had no interest  or charges applied. The Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults  at Credit Reference Agencies published 
by The Information  Commissioners  Office (ICO)  provide  a default may occur  when  an 
account is three months in arrears and normally  by the time an account is six months. So 
even had the charges not been applied I cant say Barclay  card were wrong to default this 
account given  its history and the lack of payments and any contact from Mr W after 3 
January 2014.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr W. I can understand  hes had 
some difficult times and can see he feels strongly  about this. So he may want to pursue the 
matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to 
Ref: DRN24984793resolve his dispute  with Barclaycard informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints 
Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2498479