K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about interest charges applied to her account  with Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  (trading  as Littlewoods).  
background
Mrs W has held an account with Shop Direct since 2001. In or around  2016 Mrs W 
purchased some items  including two sofas  on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL). She also 
purchased items including a laptop which were  charged to her account immediately.
Mrs W says shes  made  regular payments  to her account which  should  have  cleared  the 
BNPL balance before the interest free period expired. Shes unhappy because shes  been 
charged interest on the BNPL  items.
In its final response Shop  Direct explained that Mrs Ws payments werent allocated to the 
BNPL items because she hadnt targeted the payments to those items.  Shop Direct said the 
payments were applied  to reduce  the balance and payments  requested on her standard 
account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that although Mrs W had made 
payments she hadnt targeted  the payments to the BNPL items as required by the terms and 
conditions of the account. The investigator  concluded that Shop Direct hadnt  made  an error 
in charging interest  on the BNPL items.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said she had marked her payment BNPL  when making payments 
from her bank account. She said shed been a Shop  Direct customer for many years  and 
had always made  BNPL  payments  in this way but had never noticed interest charges on her 
account before.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which apply to Mrs Ws account. In relation to BNPL  
these say
You can avoid paying interest on any BNPL promotion if you choose to pay the full cash 
price of the relevant transaction and tell us you are doing so by calling 0800  XXX XXXX 
before the end of the deferred period or go online via My Account and target a payment 
specifically to your BNPL transaction. The payment must clear  the BNPL  transaction  cash 
price in full by the due date shown on your statement.
Ive reviewed the payments made  by Mrs W. Whilst I can see that some of the payments 
shes made correlate  to payments for BNPL items  it doesnt look as if she targeted these  
payments to the relevant  BNPL item either by telephoning Shop Direct  or via My Account as 
set out in the terms and conditions.
Because Mrs W didnt target  her payments the payments  were  applied to reduce her 
account balance  in accordance with Shop Directs payment allocation  rules. This meant that 
the balance in respect of BNPL items  wasnt cleared and therefore interest was charged.
Ref: DRN27441152Ive taken into account what Mrs W has said about sending her payment by direct  debit  with 
a BNPL comment attached. However,  this doesnt  satisfy the requirements  in the terms and 
conditions which say that the payment must be targeted to BNPL using My Account. 
Ive also taken into account what Mrs W has said about always having made payment for her 
BNPL items in this way. I dont doubt what Mrs W says but its possible that she hasnt 
noticed the interest charges on her account before now. Shop  Direct has confirmed that the 
terms and conditions relating to targeting payments  to BNPL items have been in existence 
throughout the time Mrs W has held her account, so Im satisfied that her payments have 
always been treated  in the same way.
Based on the available information and whilst I can see that Mrs W has made  regular 
payments to her account, she hasnt targeted these  payment  to BNPL  items as required by 
the terms and conditions. Therefore Im unable to conclude that Shop Direct has made  an 
error in charging  interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2744115