K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund a payment he says he didnt 
make with his credit  card.
background
Mr K disputes a card payment made online on 26 September 2018 for £799.  He says he 
thinks that his details had been  stolen and his email  account compromised.  He had lost his 
phone which contained details of his passport, driving licence and home address. And the 
nature of his work meant some personal  information  was publically available. But he says he 
never wrote the card details down and hadnt shared them with anyone. He still had the card 
in his possession.
Capital One said that it wouldnt be refunding this payment.  It said that the email  address 
used to complete  the payment matched the one it had on record. And it had contacted the 
merchant involved which had shown that it held matching details to those for Mr K. He had 
told it he had noticed the payment when he logged in online. But there was no record  of any 
log in around this time. It has decided to close his account.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-The payment  had been verified  with correct  information  for Mr K including the email 
he had registered  for its 3D secure  verification  process.  There  was no clear way in 
which all this information had been  discovered  by a third party.
-The merchant had the correct phone number  for Mr K. The email  address had 
exactly the same name but a different domain. She thought it unlikely this had been 
created just for this purpose.
-Mr K had said he didnt recognise the delivery  address  for the goods.  But he had 
disputed a previous  transaction  on the account with the same delivery address. 
Capital One had provided evidence  that he had signed for the related  goods there. 
During the chargeback process for that other  transaction he had also said he had 
received the goods  there  but sent them back.
-There had been no log on to his account after 4 September 2018 so he couldnt have 
seen this disputed  payment  online.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.  He said that his card address 
and the delivery  address used by the merchant werent the same.  No proof  of delivery  had 
been given and he said it was his right to see this. He said he didnt receive  the card which 
had been misused  so he hadnt been  aware of this. He had referred us to previous general  
data breaches with other organisations that had been made public as evidence of how his 
personal details  could have been discovered.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated,  say with a card and the security details. If I find it is not 
authorised then Mr K wouldnt  generally  be responsible for it especially as this was a card 
payment made where the card wasnt present and using credit.
Ref: DRN21149132Im satisfied based on the available  evidence that this payment was authenticated using the 
card details, the CVV three digit security number and the 3D secure  process.
The issue  is whether Mr K consented  to it. Our investigator has referred to another disputed  
payment on this credit card account. That payment was made on 2 August  2018  using a 
card ending in 4621.  That card was cancelled on 8 August 2018 and a new card ending  
3173 then issued. In an email to this service on 16 September 2019 Mr K unambiguously 
said that this was the last card he received and he gave the start date and the end date.  This 
was the card used  for the payment of £799. He said that this card was still in possession. 
I need to think  about  how an unknown third party would  have discovered  that card number 
and the security information. The first time it was used at all was on the day this payment 
was authorised  26 September  2018.  I dont doubt  that it might  have been possible for 
someone to find out Mr Ks address and phone number. But there is no clear point of 
compromise for these  card details. And the payment also had another  level of security  
through 3D secure. I cant simply rely on the fact that it is possible  for data security breaches 
and hacking to happen. I need to think about  what likely happened  here.
Mr K told our investigator  that he didnt know the address  for delivery  of the item purchased.  
That is different as set out above  to the information  Capital  One has about an earlier  
chargeback. And that other payment  was made  as I say using  a different card.  Im looking 
here at whether the payment of £799  was authorised by Mr K which  is the dispute here  not 
whether goods  were  delivered. The merchant had his correct phone number which is the 
one hes using for this service. That number may have been used for any query  about the 
order risking detection. Mr K also uses a distinctive email account name. The one on this 
order as set out above only differed by the domain provider. I find that a strange co-
incidence and not something  that was a necessary  part of any fraud. The correct  email 
address was used  to verify the payment itself. I also think it odd that there  was no other use 
of the card attempted  until about  four weeks later for an online website. Thats  not the likely 
behaviour of a fraudster  in possession of all of Mr Ks details.
Capital One has provided a case note to show that Mr K first contacted it about this payment 
on 11 October 2018 when it was recorded  that he hadnt received the item. By that time he 
wouldnt have had an account statement showing it. And he hadnt logged  onto his account 
since 4 September  2018. Ive noted hes made  other references to a card payment  being 
blocked and him contacting Capital One and so finding out about this. But there is no record  
of that. And Capital  Ones records show he didnt dispute making the payment at all until 29 
October 2018.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here but Im thinking about  what  is most likely . 
Having considered all the evidence presented Im not persuaded that the most  likely 
explanation here is that Mr K didnt consent  to this payment.  I find it was authorised and so I 
dont have a basis  to require Capital One to refund it.
Ref: DRN21149133my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2114913