K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire-
purchase agreement  in 2009.  Mr T says First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, First Response had to make  it clear to Mr T that it was optional.  But 
Mr T says he was led to believe that the PPI was mandatory and had to be included.
First Response says the PPI was sold over the phone. And its sent us a copy  of the call 
script it says was in use at the time and its record of Mr Ts answers to the questions  in the 
script.
The script shows that advisor  wouldve  been instructed to highlight  that the PPI was optional, 
that it wouldnt affect the offer of finance  and to explain how much  it would  cost.  First 
Responses record shows Mr T answered that he thought it was important to protect  himself  
against accident, sickness and unemployment  and that he said he was happy  to proceed 
with the policy.
First Response has also sent us a copy of Mr Ts hire-purchase agreement. This included  a 
box to be ticked and a space for Mr T to sign if he wanted to take out the PPI. And the box 
has been ticked and Mr T has signed  in the space.
Based on this, I think First Response did make it clear to Mr T that he had a choice about the 
PPI. And that he chose  to take it, knowing  he didnt  have  to.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And hes told us he didnt have any sick pay or other means he couldve used 
to make his repayments  if he wasnt earning.  So he seems to have had a need  for the cover.
The call script instructs the advisor to explain  how much the PPI would cost. And the hire-
purchase agreement  set out the PPI premium,  the interest charged on the PPI and then the 
total cost of the PPI. So I think Mr T wouldve understood how much the PPI wouldve cost.
Its possible some of the information  First Response gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems  like the 
PPI would have  been useful for Mr T if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr T off taking it 
out.
Ref: DRN21535362Mr T has said he tried to make a claim on the policy but was told it wouldnt pay out for the 
first 30 days. But most PPI policies dont pay out for a period of time at the start of a claim,  
and 30 days isnt an unusually long waiting period. So I dont think First Response had to 
specifically highlight this to Mr T at the sale or that the policy  was mis-sold as a result of it 
not doing so.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr T paid on his PPI  and whether First Response 
treated him unfairly.
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr Ts PPI was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how First Response has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ts commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about  the commission  
so I dont think First Response  treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr T 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2153536