K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Santander UK Plc did not block his card from being  used at a specific  
gambling company.  As a result, he spent £10,200.  Mr W wants  Santander to refund  this 
money as he thinks he should have been protected when he asked for his card to be 
blocked a few months earlier. 
background
Mr W says he disputed payments with a gambling  company in December 2017 and reported 
this to Santander. He asked  for his card to be blocked so that no further spending could take 
place with the same gambling company. Mr W disputes that £10,200 was then spent with 
that same  gambling company a few months after, in February 2018,  and he should have 
been protected and the transactions blocked by Santander or the gambling company. 
Ultimately Mr W doesnt dispute that it was spent, only that he shouldnt have been able to 
do so.
Santander looked into Mr Ws complaint. It said Mr W had been told that a future dated card 
stop, could be applied to his card which would stop future transactions  to the gambling 
company. Santander  has now explained  that this type of block only prevents certain types  of 
payments including pre-authorised transactions, it doesnt stop transactions  where the card 
and PIN is used.
Mr W was issued with a new card on 06 December 2017 and Santander says that the block 
it had applied would not have affected the new card. And the transactions  to the gambling 
company made in February 2018 were made using the genuine card and PIN, so the type of 
block would  not have stopped these payments in any event.  Santander apologised for the 
incorrect information it provided to Mr W and paid him £100 in compensation. 
It also said that as the transactions  were  made  using the genuine card and PIN it didnt 
make any error in allowing them to debit Mr Ws account. 
Mr W said that previously  he had been called when he made similar transactions  on his 
account. This was to verify the transactions were being made by him, but that didnt happen 
this time. 
Santander explained that as Mr W had previously  confirmed  similar  transactions,  these 
transactions did not appear out of the ordinary.  Santander said that transactions  to the same  
gambling company  for £1,000 and £6,600 were made in January and February 2018 
respectively and Mr W has not disputed these. 
Mr W also said that he didnt think he had made all of the transactions  as they varied in 
amounts. Santander  in its final response asked Mr W to indicate  which  transactions werent  
made by him but I havent seen that he did this. Overall it said it didnt make a mistake by 
allowing the transactions to debit Mr Ws account. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into things. Based on the evidence  he had considered he was 
persuaded that Mr W authorised the transactions.  He didnt think  there  was any evidence  to 
suggest that anyone else other than Mr W made  them.
Ref: DRN25331972The investigator also considered the information Mr W had been given over the phone  when 
he called  Santander  in December 2017  and believed his card had been blocked. He 
concluded that there were transactions made to the gambling company before the disputed 
ones and after Mr W had been  told (and believed) his card had been blocked. But he didnt 
report those or make  contact with Santander about being able to use his card with the 
gambling company.  
The investigator concluded that whilst Mr W had been given some incorrect  information 
Mr W ought to have  been aware  that the block hadnt been applied  before the 08 February 
when he spent £10,200. He also added that even if a block  had been added he didnt think  
this would have  prevented  Mr Ws losses as he was using other  gambling  companies to 
make similar transactions both before and after these events. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary he said:
-he didnt remember the transactions in January and February 2018 with same 
merchant; 
-he asked Santander to stop the card and felt it should have protected  him; and
-he doesnt think the gambling  company should  be allowed to process  a transaction  
using the magnetic  stripe on the card.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint,  so it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having considered everything, Ive come  to the same conclusions  as the investigator for 
largely the same reasons.  Ill explain why. 
I wont set out all the transactions here, the investigator set these out in his opinion  letter  
dated 28 May 2019. He detailed the value, date, time and type of each transaction  including  
the method they were made. These  totalled  £10,200  and all but one were made using 
Mr Ws genuine card with the PIN. Ive not seen  any evidence  to contradict this and this does 
not appear to be in dispute by either party. 
authorisation
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
Based on everything  Ive seen Im satisfied Mr W authorised these  transactions and I havent 
seen anything to suggest anyone other than Mr W made the transactions.  And, although  
Ref: DRN25331973inconsistent at times, Mr Ws own version  of events  doesnt suggest that he thought that 
someone else had made  the transactions either. 
That is to say Im satisfied Mr W was the one entering his card and PIN and consenting to 
the transactions. I think Mr W accepts that he made them but perhaps cant  remember  the 
detail of doing so, but that doesnt  make them unauthorised. 
Although one transaction was made without the use of the chip in the card (the magnetic 
stripe was used instead),  Im still satisfied this was an authorised  transaction made  by Mr W 
for the same reasons  Ive given above. It isnt for me to consider whether the gambling 
company was entitled to execute  a transaction in this way (as Mr W says). Im considering  
the complaint  against the bank only. And Im satisfied  Mr W authorised  this transaction  along  
with the others.
Mr W initially raised a dispute in December 2017  about transactions to the same  gambling 
company. He was told they were made using his card and PIN, and I cant see that he 
continued to dispute these payments, only asking that a block  be added to his card. Again, 
this would support  that Mr W made all the transactions.
Overall, Im persuaded Mr W authorised the transactions and therefore the starting position 
is that the bank  is not liable to refund them.
the pattern  of transactions
Mr W has suggested that previously, when  making similar transactions  he had been 
contacted by his bank  to verify  he was the one making them. That didnt happen here,  
Santander says the transactions dont  appear  unusual given Mr Ws normal pattern of 
spending, so it had no reason to contact Mr W.
I havent considered  whether the pattern of transactions here was unusual or not, but if I had 
and concluded  that they were I dont think it would have made  a difference.  I say this 
because Im satisfied it was Mr W making  the transactions.  So, if Santander had intervened  
or contacted  Mr W I think he would have confirmed he was making  the transactions.  
It might be that later on Mr W regretted the transactions or realised how much he had spent. 
But I dont think in the moment any contact from Santander wouldve prevented  him 
spending the money that he did.
Mr W has also suggested that the gambling company should have blocked or prevented the 
transactions, but this isnt a matter  for me to consider  as part of this complaint. 
loss suffered and the advice given
Mr W feels very strongly that Santander should  have protected  him and he thinks this 
because he was told transactions  to this particular merchant would be blocked. Mr W says 
when he spent £10,200 on 08 February Santander  didnt take any responsibility for his 
losses. 
But Mr W continued to use other gambling  companies on a regular basis,  spending similar  
amounts. I cant see that Mr W raised disputes about these payments or gambling  
companies or asked  for his card to be blocked  in general from all gambling companies.  So, 
Ref: DRN25331974in reality it would  be difficult for me to determine  that he wouldnt have spent this money with 
other gambling companies even if his card had been blocked with one particular company. 
I also agree  with the investigators findings that Mr W used the same gambling company on 
two occasions,  spending a total of £7,600 before the events on 08 February 2018. But after 
he thought the block  was in place. The investigator concluded that Mr W was or ought to 
have been aware  that his card hadnt  been blocked at this time but he didnt raise it with the 
bank or dispute  these  payments either. Mr W has since said he doesnt  remember  these 
transactions. But I can see that following  each  of these transactions  there are credits  into his 
account for £2,250, £2,100 and £4,750 from the gambling company. This would suggest  that 
Mr W doesnt remember or dispute  these payments as he wasnt at a loss, in fact he 
appears to be £1,500  in credit. But he does dispute the payments on 08 February  2018  
where he appears to have  suffered  a loss. 
To reiterate  Im satisfied  Mr W made these transactions had the benefit of being  able to 
place the bets that he wanted, he just doesnt appear to have  come  out on top on this 
occasion. But that does not mean  that he shouldnt be held liable for the transactions he 
made.
Overall it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold Santander liable for Mr Ws spending here. 
I appreciate Mr W is going through a difficult time and that he feels Santander ought to have 
done more to protect him but the events  here dont lead me to conclude  that it should  refund 
Mr W for the spending that he authorised.  
I have also considered the compensation paid to Mr W, based on the incorrect information  it 
gave him. I think this is fair in the circumstances and as Im not upholding the complaint and 
I wont be recommending  that Santander pay any further compensation to Mr W. 
my final decision
As Ive set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2533197