K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 1995  when  they took out a loan. They  paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Where, as here, the evidence  is incomplete or inconclusive  I need to decide  what I thinks 
most likely to have happened, based  on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer  has copies of the documents which Mr and Mrs W signed  when 
they took out the loan and the PPI. I dont  think thats surprising or unreasonable, given  
that the sale took place  more than 20 years  ago. But it means Ive got very little 
information to go on. So Ive used  our experience of this type of sale to help me decide  
what I think is most likely to have happened. Ive also looked at samples  of loan 
agreements that were  in use by Nationwide in 1995.
Mr and Mrs W have  commented in response  to the adjudicators  view that they assumed 
that if they didnt take PPI, the loan wouldnt be approved, but that if they took PPI the 
loan would be approved. I note theyve  previously  told us that the PPI was added to the 
loan without their knowledge. Im not convinced that their recollection of what happened 
is particularly  clear. Again, I dont  find that surprising, given that the sale took place many 
years ago.
In the absence  of Mr and Mrs Ws original  loan agreement, Ive looked at the samples 
that Nationwide has sent us. It hasnt been able to confirm  whether the loan was secured 
or unsecured. But its provided  example loan agreements for both types of loan. They 
are in a similar format to many others that weve seen. Both set out the monthly PPI 
premium separately, and reasonably clearly  and prominently. And its described,  in both 
cases, as Optional  Credit  Insurance.
I understand that its frustrating that Im having  to reach  my decision without the original 
documents. But because of the way the way the PPI was most  likely described on the 
loan agreement, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs W would have  realised at the 
time that the PPI was optional, and not something  they needed to take in order  to get the 
loan. And I think its more likely than not that they agreed to take out the PPI - although  
I can understand how they may have forgotten  this, so many years  later.
Ref: DRN20954572Its not clear whether  Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. If it did 
recommend it, it had a responsibility  to check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs W have  told us they were  both entitled to sick pay from their employers. But 
based on what we know about  PPI policies  at the time, Im satisfied that its likely  that if 
theyd made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness  or unemployment,  it 
would have paid their monthly  loan payments for at least 12 months. Thats  longer  than 
Mr and Mrs W have  told us theyd have been  entitled to full sick pay for. Whats  more, it 
would have paid out in addition  to any payments they received from their employers. So 
they could have used those to meet other  day-to-day expenses. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI could have been useful for Mr and Mrs W, 
particularly as theyve  told us that aside  from their earnings, they didnt have any savings 
or other means they could have used to make  their monthly loan repayments.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives have suggested that the premiums charged for the PPI 
werent proportional to the level of cover provided. But theres  not enough information 
available for me to fairly  be able to reach  that conclusion. Given that Im satisfied that the 
loan agreement which Mr and Mrs W signed is likely to have been  in substantially the 
same form as one of the samples  that Nationwides provided, Im satisfied,  on balance, 
that the cost of the policy would have  been  shown  reasonably clearly and prominently.  
So I think Mr and Mrs W would  have understood how much the PPI would cost.  And 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think they couldnt afford it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover (for 
example, existing medical conditions or unusual  employment situations). But based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have 
been affected by any of these.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments,  including what theyve said about not 
having been told they could find PPI elsewhere, at a lower cost. But Nationwide  wasnt  
obliged to tell Mr and Mrs W about products that might have been available from other 
providers. So this doesnt change my conclusion  that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095457