K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited authorised  his partners claim under 
his employers group  private medical insurance policy but failed to draw attention to the 
policys outpatient benefit limit.
background
Mr As policy  covered him and his family. The policy allowed up to £1,500 to be claimed  for 
outpatient treatment  each year.
Mr As partner,  Ms K, experienced  some heart symptoms. Her GP referred her to a 
cardiologist. Their daughter (who Ill call Miss  A) rang AXA PPP to seek authorisation for 
this. AXA PPP agreed to provide cover for a consultation and drew attention to Ms Ks 
remaining annual outpatient allowance of £1,109.
Two days later, Ms K attended the consultation.  The consultant recommended  she undergo  
various diagnostic  tests there and then. Mr A called Miss A who patched  a call through  to 
AXA PPP to seek authorisation for these tests. AXA PPP agreed  to provide cover.
A few minutes later, AXA PPP called back and spoke to Miss A. It said that it had forgotten 
to remind her in the previous conversation that any cover was subject to the outpatient 
benefit limit which  applied to the policy.
About fifteen minutes after that, Miss A called AXA PPP back. She said that she had only 
just been able to relay  this information to Mr A and it turned out Miss K had already 
undergone the tests  in question. The cost of the tests  had exceeded the remaining 
outpatient allowance leaving  Mr A with a shortfall.  On behalf of Mr A, she complained  that 
AXA PPP should  cover  this because if it had warned that the cost of the tests  would come 
out her outpatient  allowance,  Ms K wouldnt  have  undergone them.
AXA PPP didnt uphold the complaint. It noted  that until the final phone call it had been  led to 
believe it was speaking  directly with Ms K rather than Miss A. While it acknowledged that it 
made a mistake in not explaining initially that the cost of the tests would come from the 
outpatient allowance,  it had corrected this within a few minutes.
Mr A was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
When AXA PPP confirmed to Miss A and Mr A that it would provide cover for Ms Ks tests, it 
failed to mention  that this was subject  to her outpatient allowance.  I recognise that AXA PPP 
had drawn Miss As attention to the outpatient allowance  and the remaining balance  when it 
had provided authorisation for the initial consultation  just two days earlier. However, I dont 
think Miss A would necessarily have  understood that the tests would also be subject to this 
allowance. I am therefore satisfied that Miss A and Mr A were led to believe the cost of the 
tests would be fully covered  by the policy.  
AXA PPPs adviser  called back once he realised his error. The evidence shows  that this was 
about three minutes after the last call had ended. This would normally  be sufficiently quick  to 
prevent any harm arising from the error. In this case, however, by the time the message had 
Ref: DRN21935682been relayed to Mr A, Ms K had apparently already embarked on the tests. And even if all 
the tests hadnt  been completed by that time, I can understand if Mr A and Ms K had been 
reluctant to tell the consultant to stop them.
Mr A says that his wife wouldnt  have undergone the tests  if theyd known they would have to 
meet some of the costs.  I see no reason to dispute this. AXA PPPs error  therefore caused 
Mr A to incur costs  he wouldnt  have otherwise incurred.
In these circumstances, I would normally say that the insurer should meet the full cost of the 
claim. However, I consider that Miss A needs to bear some responsibility.  She had led AXA 
PPP to believe throughout that it was speaking to her mother, Ms K. On receiving the 
corrected information,  she should have explained  to it that this wasnt the case  and that she 
wasnt at the hospital  with her mother.  AXA PPP might then have tried to get the information 
to Ms K through  other means, through directly contacting either  Mr A or the hospital. As it 
was, it was denied  the opportunity to try and put things right through these other channels 
because it understood it had already  advised  Ms K of the correct information in time.
I dont know whether, if Miss A had instantly  made  it aware of the situation, AXA PPP would 
have been able to reach  Mr A in time to prevent his wife from embarking on tests  for which  
she wasnt fully covered. However, I cant rule out the possibility that it might have done  so. 
In view of this, I think that AXA PPP should be required to meet  only 50% of the treatment  
costs incurred by Mr A in excess  of the outpatient benefit allowance.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision.
AXA PPP responded to say it accepted the decision but that it would need to see the 
invoices before it could  provide payment.
Mr A didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that AXA PPP has accepted my provisional  decision, and Mr A didnt respond, Im 
satisfied that my provisional  decision should stand. I think the complaint should be upheld in 
part for the reasons I gave in the provisional decision.
I consider that AXA PPPs  request that it be provided with the necessary invoices before it 
provides payment is reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay 50% of the cost of Ms Ks treatment above the 
outpatient benefit allowance. If Mr A has already  met this cost himself, AXA PPP should add 
interest to this amount at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date Mr A paid 
the invoice(s) to the date of settlement.* 
Ref: DRN21935683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If AXA PPP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2193568