K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) and Gold  
Added Vale Account (GAVA) by Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mrs A took out a Select  Added  Value Account (SAVA) which incurred a monthly fee in 
March 2004.
Mrs A upgraded to a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) which  incurred a monthly  fee in 
July 2011.
Lloyds has agreed  that the SAVA was mis-sold  in 2004 and offered to return  the fees she 
paid with appropriate interest.
Lloyds has also agreed that the GAVA was mis-sold in 2011 and offered to return the 
difference between  the GAVA fees and the SAVA fees she has paid since then with 
appropriate interest.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs As complaint and decided that Lloyds response  was fair 
and the redress  it had offered was in line with the amount that this service would award.
Mrs A says that she does  not agree to the redress on the GAVA sale and wants  a full refund 
of the GAVA  fees with interest. 
So the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs As complaint.
In my view, I think Lloyds offer is reasonable and Ill explain why.
The return  of Mrs As SAVA fees between March 2004 and July 2011 is not disputed by 
either party so I dont need to look at this.
I need to consider the sale of the GAVA in July 2011  and decide  whether Lloyds offer to pay 
back the difference in fees between  the GAVA and a SAVA  from July 2011 is fair and 
reasonable or not.
So Ill firstly look at whether or not Mrs A was aware the GAVA  was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking  out the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
Mrs A had had a SAVA with an overdraft facility for several years before she took out the 
GAVA. So I think its more likely than not that she was familiar  by then with the nature of a 
packaged bank  account and what she was paying  a fee for. 
Ref: DRN21813132And whilst I dont doubt her honest  recollections I think its more  likely than not that Mrs A 
was aware that both Lloyds and other banks and financial institutions offered a variety of fee 
free and fee charging bank accounts  with overdrafts. I say this because they were widely 
advertised in a competitive market. And if Mrs A hadnt wanted the GAVA, I think she would 
have questioned what she was being  offered  and sought an alternative  elsewhere.
Mrs A says that Lloyds  told her she had to take out the GAVA  to increase  her overdraft limit. 
But I think her memory is mistaken  on this point as overdraft limits are set on credit  ratings;  it 
is the cost of the overdraft that varies  by product. So I think  its more likely than not that 
Lloyds didnt say this to her.  
So I think Mrs A was aware she had a choice and chose to take out the GAVA.
Lloyds advised  Mrs A to take out the GAVA. So, Lloyds  needed  to provide Mrs A with 
sufficient information  about it to make  an informed choice. And in recommending the GAVA,  
it also needed to take adequate steps  to ensure that the GAVA was a reasonable fit for 
Mrs As circumstances at the time.
A SAVA  in July 2011 cost £8.95 per month and contained a range of benefits including  AA 
breakdown cover, sentinel card protection,  and international mobile phone insurance. And it 
offered an automatic £50 fee free and interest  free overdraft limit.
The GAVA Mrs A took out in July 2011  cost £12 per month and contained  the same range of 
benefits plus worldwide  travel insurance with winter sports  and an automatic £100 fee free 
and interest free overdraft limit.
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mrs A about the GAVA but I think  it 
was of interest to her. I say this because in July 2011 when she took out the GAVA she had 
a phone and was clearly interested in using an overdraft  facility.  And the car breakdown 
cover was available to her whether she was the driver of a car or just a passenger.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of its assessment of her needs and circumstances, which  it did 
with her and which records her understanding and interest in the GAVA. And Lloyds has 
provided evidence  that she registered her phone for the insurance cover soon after taking 
the GAVA out. So, I think Mrs A found elements of the product attractive.
But in my view, Mrs A didnt have  any need  at the time for the worldwide travel insurance. 
She hadnt travelled previously and there is no evidence she travelled anywhere for some  
time after the GAVA sale. And the account records show that she benefitted very little from 
having a £100 fee free overdraft level rather than the £50 level she already had on her 
previous SAVA.
So in my view if Lloyds  had recommended  that she continue with her SAVA  at that time,  that 
would have been suitable, but the recommendation to take out the GAVA was not.
In summary,  I think that in July 2011 Mrs A knew she had a choice when she took out the 
GAVA and she chose  to take it out. But I think a SAVA was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs A and the GAVA wasnt. 
Ref: DRN21813133So I uphold Mrs As complaint in the way Ive described above. And I think  Lloyds offer to pay 
Mrs A all her fees with interest on the SAVA from March 2004  to July 2011,  and the difference  
between the GAVA and SAVA  fees between July 2011 and now is fair and reasonable.
putting things right
I require Lloyds to: 
Pay Mrs A the amount she paid each month for the SAVA from March  2004 to July 
2011. Add simple  interest to each  payment  from when  she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
Pay Mrs A the additional  amount she paid each  month for the GAVA compared to the 
SAVA from July 2011 to the date of this decision. Add simple interest to each payment 
from when she paid it until she gets it back.  The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs A has saved money  because  of a better rate on her overdraft by having the GAVA   
rather than the SAVA  and Lloyds can show exactly how much Mrs A saved, it may 
deduct these savings from the amount it pays her  but only after it has calculated  the 
point above. Lloyds must explain  clearly  and simply to Mrs A how it has worked  out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mrs A a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs As complaint on the basis  I describe above and require 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay redress  to Mrs A as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2181313