K821x#15Complaint
Mr E has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  continued to applying charges 
to his overdraft, which  it shouldnt have provided  him with in the first place, when he was in 
financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 16 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr Es complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Lloyds  didnt provide anything for me to think about or ask for any additional 
time to do so. Mr E didnt provide anything further  for me to think about either. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr Es complaint  in my provisional decision. 
And, in the absence  of anything further  from either  party, I see no reason to change  my 
conclusions. So having carefully considered everything, Im still upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr E
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Es complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Es current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2014  onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr E to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Es credit 
file, it should backdate  this to September 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr E along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Ref: DRN28799982For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 16 February 2021, Im 
upholding Mr Es complaint. Lloyds  Bank  PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN28799983COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued to applying  charges to 
his overdraft, which it shouldnt have  provided him with in the first place, when he was in financial 
difficulty.
Background
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think  Lloyds had done anything  
wrong or had treated  Mr E unfairly. Mr E disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review  his 
complaint.   
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when  
looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly  and reasonably when applying  overdraft 
charges. So I dont  consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully  considered everything provided, I think Lloyds  acted unfairly when it continued 
charging overdraft  interest  and associated  fees after it renewed Mr Es overdraft in September 
2014. By this point, it was evident Mr Es use of his overdraft was unsustainable. A cursory look 
at his statements  leading up to the renewal shows that only time he had a credit balance  on his 
account was when he took a loan out to consolidate his existing  debts which appear to have  
been taking up a significant  portion of his income. His statements also show  repeated payday 
borrowing. I can see payments to at least two different  lenders of this type.
In these circumstances, it ought  to have  been apparent that Mr Es salary  was unlikely to be 
enough to repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time with overdraft  interest, fees 
and associated charges  being  added. So Lloyds  should have  stopped providing  the overdraft on 
the same  terms and treated Mr E with forbearance  rather  than adding even more fees and 
charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised  that Mr E was experiencing financial difficulty, 
wasnt using his overdraft  as intended and shouldnt have continued offering  it on the same 
terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Es overdraft  usage and instead continued charging  in the 
same way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr E ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when he 
was already experiencing difficulty. So Im intending to say that Mr E lost out because of what  
Lloyds did wrong  and that it should  put things right.
Fair compensation  what Im intending  to say Lloyds  needs  to do to put things right for 
Mr E
Having thought about  everything, Im intending to issue a final decision  saying that it would be 
fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of Mr Es complaint  for Lloyds  to put things  right by:
Reworking Mr Es current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges  
applied to it from September 2014 onwards are removed.
Ref: DRN28799984AND
If an outstanding balance  remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have  
been made Lloyds should contact Mr E to arrange  a suitable  repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information  on Mr Es credit file, it 
should backdate  this to September 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there  no longer  being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should  be treated  as overpayments and 
returned to Mr E along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date 
they were  made  (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds  must give Mr 
E a certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im intending to uphold  Mr Es complaint  and tell Lloyds Bank  
PLC to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 2 March 2021 changes my mind, thats what  Ill 
tell Lloyds to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879998