K822xcomplaint
Miss H and Ms P complain that a training course  Miss H enrolled  on and funded through a 
finance agreement, guarantored by Ms P and provided by TTR PT Limited (TTR), was mis-
sold.
 
background 
In December 2017 Miss H signed  up for a counselling skills  course. In a telephone call with 
TTR she was told that shed get unlimited guaranteed interviews. She says that was the 
only reason she signed  up for the course.  But when she completed  it she was disappointed 
that she didnt  receive  any interviews. She also complains that she was told by TTR that 
shed get a job with a starting salary of £26k but this wasnt the case.
She complained to TTR and they accepted that theyd misinformed Miss H. They  explained 
that the business theyd  partnered with were no longer  able to guarantee interviews  and they 
apologised but said their career support officer would  assist with finding  vacancies in the 
future. They didnt  agree  that Miss H had been told shed  get a job with a starting salary of 
£26k. They listened  to the call shed had with their agent and noted hed said shed be able 
to start on a salary of around  £18k  and progress to £26k.
Miss H wasnt  satisfied  with TTRs response. So she referred  her complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided his view. He agreed  that the course had been  mis-sold 
because Miss H had received no job interviews and had clearly been promised some. He 
understood that she suggested this was the only reason shed participated in the course  but 
he explained  that she now had the qualification  that would assist  her going forward. So he 
couldnt insist  the money  shed spent on the course was returned to her but he did think it 
would be reasonable to suggest 15% of the money  paid should  be refunded.  
The business agreed with the adjudicators  suggested resolution on the proviso that Miss H 
brought the arrears on the account up to date. But Miss H didnt. She thought  the suggestion 
was derisory and she stressed that the only reason shed considered the course was 
because of the guaranteed interviews  at the end. She therefore  asked for a final decision  by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H and Ms P but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for 
similar reasons.  Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN23365372Theres no dispute that Miss H was told something that proved to be untrue because she 
was informed on the telephone that shed get unlimited guaranteed interviews and she didnt 
get any. Im not persuaded that she was misinformed about  starting  salaries as the agent 
told her realistically youd  be going in at no less than £18,000  but I dont think  it matters  
whether she was misinformed  about starting  salaries or any other detail: she was 
misinformed about the guarantee  of interviews and thats enough to say she was mis-sold 
the course.
And I think its likely  that Miss H was encouraged to sign up for the course  because  of these 
guaranteed interviews. She was unemployed at the time and the chance to impress at least  
some prospective employers would, Im sure, have been appealing.
So as thats  the case I think it would be right for TTR to take some further action as I dont 
think theyve currently done enough.
I think they should therefore refund part of the fee Miss H is due to pay for the course  and 
Ive thought about how much that should be.
I think the adjudicators  suggestion of 15% is reasonable  in the circumstances because:
Whilst job interviews were not offered, the course was. Miss H will benefit from the course  
materials and the qualification for the rest of her career and whilst I see shes  suggested she 
may now have changed  career direction, I think the subject matter is broadly  useful  in many 
professions.
TTR have offered continued  career support for three  years.  I can see that they have 
provided, albeit  limited, links to career opportunities and help with creating a CV, and also 
counselled Miss H about  the types  of jobs that may be applicable.  It wouldnt be fair not to 
take this into account.
And its clear  that TTR didnt offer a guaranteed job. They offered interviews  - so I think  the 
benefits were less tangible.
Overall, Ill be asking  TTR to take some action  but not as much as I understand Miss H and 
Ms P wouldve like me to.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell TTR PT Limited to refund 
15% of the total course fee once payments on the account are brought back  up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2336537