K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complained that Aviva Insurance Limited  didnt  provide him with a new vehicle 
replacement, under his motor insurance  policy, after his van was written-off in an accident.  
background
Aviva decided to write-off (known as a total loss)  Mr Bs van after he was involved in an 
accident. He asked for a new vehicle replacement and Aviva agreed.  However,  Aviva  said 
as Mr B acquired his car through a hire purchase  agreement, it could only provide a new van 
if the finance company agreed. Mr Bs finance  company didnt agree as they said the 
agreement was secured  against that van and they couldnt change  it to a different one. 
Aviva said as Mr Bs finance  company wouldnt agree,  it would pay the vans market  value,  
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Aviva ultimately offered Mr B £14,355, 
minus the policy  excess. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said hed paid £34,000 for the van less than a year earlier 
and he still had outstanding finance  of over £1,000. He thought Aviva had incorrectly 
interpreted the terms of the policy.  He brought his complaint to us. He said he read the policy  
terms to mean the finance company had to agree the ownership of the van passed to him. 
He said the finance company had agreed this. So, he thought  Aviva should  provide a new 
van. He also didnt think Aviva had made this term clear when he bought the policy.  
Our adjudicator thought Aviva  had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.  She 
didnt think Aviva had interpreted the policy incorrectly. And she thought it had made  in a 
reasonable offer that was in line with the market value of the van.
Mr B didnt agree. He still thought Aviva  should  provide  a new van and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy say in the event of a total loss it will provide a 
replacement vehicle where the van is less than 12 months old and the repair  costs  are more 
than 60% of the vehicles UK list price.  It goes on to say:
We will only replace your vehicle If the principal  policyholder,  vehicle policyholder  or 
a partner:
buy it under a hire purchase agreement or other  type of agreement where ownership 
passes to the principal  policyholder, vehicle policyholder or a partner  and the 
financing Company agrees,
I appreciate Mr B reads  this to mean the finance  company needs to agree that the ownership 
passes to him if the finance is paid off. But I dont agree. I think its clear that the finance  
company needs  to agree to the new vehicle replacement as theyre the legal  owner of the 
vehicle until Mr B pays off the finance. This also isnt an unusual term in motor  insurance 
policies, so I dont  think Aviva needed to highlight it in the summary document.  
Ref: DRN24761272Even if I agreed it wasnt clear,  it remains  that Aviva cant give the finance a new van if the 
finance company  wont agree to change  the vehicle that the finance is secured against. If    
Mr B is unhappy with the finance companys decision not to accept the new van he can 
complain about  this separately  if he wants to. 
Mr Bs said the policy doesnt say the finance company needs  to agree to change  the hire 
purchase agreement  to a different van. However, I dont think  it needs  to say that, as its 
clear the finance  company needs  to agree to the new vehicle replacement, which in this 
case they havent. 
The policy says that if the criteria for a new vehicle replacement isnt met then the most 
Aviva will pay is the vans  pre-accident market  value.  It defines market value as replacing  the 
van with one of the same  make, model,  specification and condition.
Our service doesnt value  vehicles, but we look to see that an insurer  (in this case Aviva) has 
made a fair and reasonable offer thats  in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy.  
Aviva said it used relevant  trade guides to value Mr Bs van. We generally find the trade 
guides persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of likely  selling  prices.
In this case I can see Aviva received valuations of £12,624, £12,655 and £14,110 from the 
trade guides. Aviva said these valuations dont include VAT as Mr B is VAT registered. Ive 
also checked the trade guides and the valuations Ive seen are in line with these. Aviva  has 
valued Mr Bs van in line with the highest trade guide. In the circumstances I think  Aviva  has 
valued Mr Bs van more highly than it could have done because its usually reasonable to 
discount one guide if its out of line with the other  two. So, Im not going  to ask it to increase 
the valuation.  
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr B was hoping for but Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476127