K820x#14complaint
Mr A in his capacity as Director complains on behalf  of E, a limited company,  that Covea 
Insurance plc (Covea) declined a claim for damage to a block of flats, caused by rainwater.
background
Limited company  E is the freeholder of a block of flats, which  comprises a penthouse 
apartment on the top floor that was undergoing  construction work in September 2016.  The 
company made a claim under its policy with Covea, when the weather deteriorated  and 
caused water ingress into the property soon after the work commenced. Covea declined the 
claim on the basis that the freeholders didnt report losses promptly  and failed to take steps 
to prevent or minimise  damage to the property.
Mr A was unhappy about this, as approximately £90,000 worth of damage had been caused
to the property, so he raised a complaint. Covea didnt uphold the complaint, saying the
damage had occurred due to the contractors failure  to properly protect the roof while
construction work was ongoing, and that certain policy conditions had been breached.
Mr A remained unhappy  with Coveas response and referred the complaint  to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend that the complaint should
be upheld. He said Covea  hadnt acted unreasonably in declining  the claim, because the 
policyholders hadnt  ensured that Covea  was made  aware of the damage in a timely manner 
and hadnt taken reasonable precautions to prevent the damage. Mr A disagreed with our 
investigators view and so the complaint has come to me to decide.
The background to the claim is extensive. So I will only refer below to the key events and 
evidence relevant to my decision. However,  I want to reassure  both parties that I have 
carefully reviewed everything that has been  provided, including the submissions made  since 
our investigator issued his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
In insurance claims like these, its for the policyholder to show  that an insured event likely 
caused the damage. In this case, that isnt in dispute. There  was substantial ingress of water 
which the loss adjuster  suggests would have been covered under the Any Accidental  
Cause section of the policy.
Once it has been established  that an insured peril has occurred, its the insurers 
responsibility to show  that a relevant  exclusion in the policy applies or that a relevant 
condition of the policy wasnt met. Covea has relied on two key conditions  in the policy, 
which it says were  breached and which meant  the claim could not be accepted.
late notification 
The first policy condition  Covea has relied  on says:
Ref: DRN28545922You shall on the happening of any incident which  could result  in a claim under this policy 
immediately notify  Us and deliver  to Us at Your own expense a claim in writing with such 
detailed particulars and proofs as may reasonably be required.
The terms Us and You  are clearly defined in the policy under the General Definitions 
section, as follows:
We/Us/OurCovea Insurance  plc
and
You/Your/PolicyholderThe person(s) or Company named in the Schedule
Looking at the Schedule of Insurance which accompanies the policy, its clear  the insured 
party was limited company E (the freeholder),  of which Mr A is a Director.  So Im satisfied 
the onus was on the freeholder company  to ensure that the claim was reported to the insurer 
in a timely manner, not on any third party. 
Covea says this condition wasnt met because it didnt receive notification of the damage 
until mid-November, almost two months after the first incident of water ingress. Its said this 
meant it wasnt able to properly inspect the damage at the time and consider how the 
decision not to proceed with additional  roof protection wouldve affected the scope  of any 
ongoing cover.
Mr A has maintained that the damage  was reported  promptly and that the policyholders did 
everything they reasonably could. After the first incident of rainwater ingress occurred  on 
25 September 2016, Mr A says it was reported to the managing agents, who reported  it on to 
the brokers of the policy  verbally  on 4 October 2016.  This is confirmed in various 
correspondence, including  emails dated  4 October  2016, 3 May 2017 and 23 January 2020.
Mr A further states that the freeholders solicitors advised them  to submit the total claim only 
when the full extent of the damage was known. While I accept  that the freeholders may have  
been given this advice, this course  of action  isnt in line with the policy terms, which  require 
written notification to take place immediately.  The policy  Schedule also states If you wish 
to make a claim on this policy full details  must  be provided promptly  to your insurance broker  
Towergate Insurance. 
So whilst I accept that the policyholders  may have  reported the damage within  a reasonable 
timeframe to the buildings managing agents,  and the managing agents in turn spoke to the 
brokers soon afterwards,  Ive seen no evidence that the policyholders took steps to ensure 
that any of the informed  parties had notified the insurer  of the damage  immediately  which  
is required under  the policy.
Further, in an email  dated 11 September 2018  from the brokers  of the policy  to Covea, the 
broker confirms that the incident was only notified to them in writing on 15 November 2016  
with a claim form signed by Mr A, which was sent on to Covea the following day. Mr A says it 
isnt correct that the brokers  were notified  as late as mid-November. Hes provided an email  
chain showing the brokers were told about  the damage in early October. However, in that 
chain, an email from the broker clearly states that it was made aware only that there could  
be a claim and that they were awaiting further  details.
Ref: DRN28545923I dont consider this to have met the requirements  as set out both in the policy and the policy 
schedule, both of which require full details of the damage to be reported promptly and in 
writing to the insurer. This wasnt done until November 2016.
Whilst I accept  Coveas  position that the damage  wasnt reported  straight  away  as required 
by the policy,  Ive also considered whether this prejudiced Coveas position. As a result of 
late notification,  Covea says it was unable  to inspect the rainwater damage at the time and 
assess whether additional  protection for the roof would be necessary, in order to minimise 
the cost of the claim. I accept  what  Covea  has said here. Late notification  can make  it more 
difficult for an insurer to decide  how to proceed  with a claim and to decide  whether or not the 
damage should be covered, all of which is usually aided by prompt  action on the part of the 
policyholder, followed  by swift inspection of the damage. 
In this case, I can see the loss adjusters report confirms  Covea  instructed  him on 21 
November 2016  (less  than a week after Covea was notified of the damage)  and he then 
made prompt contact with the property management company in order to visit the premises 
on 23 November 2016. This persuades me that had Covea been made aware  of the damage  
immediately, at the end of September, the loss adjuster likely wouldve been able to inspect 
the property within a week and before the second ingress of water. This also wouldve meant 
further instances of water  ingress couldve been  prevented. 
I say this because  the loss adjusters  report confirms  the damage is not resultant from one 
incident but rather repeated incidents  of rainfall  over the course  of the past 2 months since  
the works  first commenced. This report was based on a visit which took place at the end of 
November 2016,  and various periods of rainfall had occurred in the two-month period 
leading up to that visit. This is also confirmed in a letter from the contractors to the loss 
adjuster dated  22 February 2017, which states: after the first incident further occurrences of 
water penetration did occur as the temporary deckingcould not withstand all the instances 
of rainfall. 
The late notification therefore  meant  the loss adjuster was unable to contemporaneously  
assess the damage which occurred immediately after the first incident of water ingress  and 
it follows that Covea  didnt therefore  have  an opportunity to consider what could be done to 
prevent further  damage, or consider whether ongoing cover  could be provided due to the 
lack of adequate weatherproofing.
So Im satisfied Coveas  position was prejudiced by the late notification and that it wasnt  
unreasonable for Covea to decline the claim on this basis.
reasonable precautions
Another key condition Covea has pointed to in order to decline  the claim is the condition in 
the policy which states that the policyholder must  take  all reasonable precautions to prevent  
or minimise  Damage accident  or injury. Covea says the policyholders didnt take reasonable 
precautions to prevent the damage recurring  after the first incident of water  ingress  occurred. 
Mr A maintains that the policyholders took all reasonable steps to prevent the damage, 
namely instructing  professionals  to look after the project on their behalf, contractually  
obliging the appointed contractors to protect  the building from damage, and considering  the 
suggestion of a temporary tin roof  but subsequently making the informed decision against 
this, having been advised that the permanent roof would  be complete within the same  
amount of time it would take to install a temporary one. 
Ref: DRN28545924Ive considered everything both parties have  said in relation to this. Where  a policy contains 
a reasonable precautions clause, the policyholder must not act recklessly  or against the 
advice of professionals where it appreciates that a risk exists which may cause a loss. 
Covea therefore  needs to show  that the policyholders  were  reckless  or in other words  
that they recognised a risk but still deliberately courted it. To have done so, the policyholders 
in this case wouldve  had to have taken no steps  at all to minimise  the rainwater damage, or 
taken steps that they know wouldve been inadequate to properly  avert the risk. This is the 
test of recklessness  as set out in a leading legal case regarding reasonable care provisions  
in insurance policies (Sofi v Prudential).
In an email dated 28 September 2016  to the managing  agents,  in order to inform it of the 
water ingress, the contract administrators wrote:
When the rain occurred  the exposed areas of the slab had been protected  with heavy duty 
polythene sheeting  taped in place  but clearly this did not prove completely effective. 
Consequently the problem could  re-occur again  in heavy  rainfall.  The only real solution is to 
install a temporary roof covering  under  which all the works would be carried  out if the work  
is not carried out there is a possibility of future ingress and damage.
In an email dated 29 September again  to the buildings  managing agents, the contract 
administrators wrote:
The design and installation of the temporary roof would take 2 weeks from instruction. If the 
works were to press on as of now with the temporary protection  in place then the original 
programme showed  the new extension roof in by the second week of November.
This suggests the installation of the temporary  roof wouldve been complete some  time 
before the permanent  roof structure  wouldve been in place, contrary  to Mr As view that both 
would be completed  around the same time, by mid-October. The loss adjusters preliminary 
report dated December  2016 confirms it would  still take a further 2-3 weeks  until the roof 
was watertight. So I dont  agree with Mr As opinion that the temporary roof wouldve taken 
the same  amount of time to install as the permanent roof, and that this wouldve made  the 
roof area watertight  by mid-October. I also think the estimate of two weeks to erect the 
temporary roof was a generous one  with many tin hat style coverings for larger  projects 
taking less than a week to design  and install. So I think its possible that, had prompt  
instruction been  given,  the temporary  roof covering  wouldve  been  in place in time to prevent 
the second instance of water ingress.
However, the freeholders  opted not to purchase  any further protection.  Mr A responded to 
the managing  agents on 29 September 2016  saying:
As the people  most  affected by this we would vote to get on with it WITHOUT the temporary 
roof structure. It would be far, far cheaper for everyone to pay for a month or at worst 2 
months rent rebate for our tenants, put a large bath in the lounge until we are certain  its 
watertight and then for the clear  up in our flats...  This cant  come  to more than 10-15K  all told 
and not the stupidly high 35K plus vat that has been suggested.
The advice given  by the contract administrators suggests that it wouldve been  a safer  
option, albeit a more expensive one, to erect a temporary roof to minimise further damage. 
So, I consider there is no doubt that the policyholders were  aware  of the substantial  risk of 
further water  ingress. And based  on Mr As email above and the subsequent decision made 
Ref: DRN28545925by the freeholders, its clear that the policyholders knew there was a problem and didnt take 
the recommended action.  Its likely  this was due to the costs involved  and potential  delays in 
the build, as the majority of the correspondence  Ive seen  suggests. So, while I know  steps 
were taken, such as the contractors making  more of an effort  to use their existing materials  
to protect  the building from further damage, these werent the actions recommended a 
number of times by the professionals involved.  So I consider the policyholders  to have 
deliberately courted the risk, having  recognised it existed.
Mr A contends that it wouldnt have mattered how much additional damage occurred after 
the initial water ingress, as the ceilings wouldve had to be taken down and replaced 
anyway. I dont agree with this. The loss adjusters preliminary report  of the damage,  dated  
1 December 2016, refers to the contractors failure  to adequately protect the roof during 
works, and that despite further attempts  to protect the roof using the same method (i.e. using 
additional tarpaulin) more  rainwater continued to enter, resulting in further damage.
The loss adjusters report further  states that while  all the ceilings on the fifth floor did indeed 
suffer damage, it wouldnt be clear whether all of them would need to be renewed until 
drying works  were  completed.  So I dont agree that further damage due to further ingress of 
rainwater wouldnt have  mattered. 
It follows therefore, that based on everything  Ive seen, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
Covea to have  declined the claim on the basis that the condition relating to reasonable 
precautions wasnt  met.
Ive carefully considered  all of Mr As submissions, as well as those made by his legal 
representative. Mr A feels strongly that his company did not act recklessly and at all times  
took advice from professionals. I do not doubt  that this is Mr As genuine  view of what  
happened. However, my role is to determine whether it was unreasonable  for Covea to point 
to the conditions it relied on, in order to decline  the claim. And, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont  find that Covea  acted  unfairly in declining  this claim for the reasons it did.
I note Mr A brought a separate complaint, on behalf of company E, to this service in 2018 
about Es legal  expenses  insurer,  following a claim made under the freeholders  legal 
indemnity policy. The claim for legal  expenses cover was associated  with pursuing the 
contractors for a breach of duty of care and/or breach  of contract. As the legal expenses 
insurer has said it will only consider the claim once a final decision has been issued on this 
case and once its been determined that losses cant be recovered  by any other insurance 
policy, Mr A should now be able to go back to the legal expenses insurer, which  should  then 
be in a position to reconsider the loss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
that policy.
delays in the handling of the claim
Mr A has also complained about  the time it took Covea to reach  a decision about the claim. 
He says that despite him chasing Covea repeatedly, it took Covea six months to decline the 
claim.
Covea was properly  informed about  the damage  in November  2016. It gave its final answer 
declining the claim on 7 April 2017.  Having looked  at the timeline  of events and the 
correspondence between  the various parties, I cant see that Covea caused  any significant  
or avoidable delays. Covea  needed  to ensure it had a full and proper  account  of everything 
that had happened  and I dont consider Covea to have taken too long in gathering the 
Ref: DRN28545926information it needed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but for the reasons  Ive given, I wont be 
making any award in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Ifrah Malik
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2854592