Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited  (Capquest)  has again  contacted  
him about a debt that isnt his. He is looking for compensation to reflect the impact  on him 
going back over a number of years.
Background
Mr J has had several issues  going  back many years, being chased for a debt that isnt 
his. Capquest says it has been involved in recovering  the debt since  2011. 
Capquests records indicate that Mr J made  contact  in June  2017  to say that he had been 
contacted in error about a debt that wasnt his. Capquest looked into things  and told Mr J 
that he wouldnt receive any further  correspondence  from them  until theyd fully resolved 
the situation. 
Around a year later, Mr J received  further contact from Capquest about money he owed. 
Mr J explained to Capquest that hed previously  told them about the debt not being  his 
and that theyd undertaken to not contact him again. He said the situation was causing 
him a great deal of stress,  that his credit  file had been affected and that this had caused 
him lots of problems. 
Capquest looked  into things and upheld Mr Js complaint. It said it had taken steps to 
make sure Mr J wouldnt be contacted again  in error. This included  unlinking the debt 
from his address, which would resolve  any issues with his credit  file. It acknowledged that 
Mr J was looking for £2,000 to £3,000  in compensation but said it couldnt  agree to that 
and awarded him £200 as an apology for what had happened.
The letter informed Mr J that he had the right to refer his concerns to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and that he had to do so within  six months of the date of 
the letter. 
In early 2019, Mr J received further  contact from Capquest chasing him for debts and he 
complained that the issue still hadnt been resolved. Capquest  upheld Mr Js complaint. It 
explained that whilst Mr Js details  had been  removed from certain systems, they hadnt 
been from others  and this had led to the further contact. Capquest awarded Mr J £100 
compensation to reflect  what had happened. It also said that, given  the nature of the 
issues Mr J had encountered (including  the involvement of another party with a very 
similar name), he may want to contact various  credit reference agencies (CRAs) and it 
gave contact details  for them.
Mr J referred his complaint to us. He said he would settle for no less than £3,000, 
because he had been reassured  several times by Capquest that it had all been sorted 
out. Mr J also said the ombudsman had previously been involved a number of years  ago 
and had said everything had been  resolved.  Mr J said he thought £3,000 was suitable 
considering the stress involved and the number of years this had gone on for. 
Capquest said that £100 was appropriate because the previous complaint / issues 
couldnt be considered - on the basis that Mr J hadnt referred  his concerns within  six 
months of the final response letter issued in 2018.  
Our investigator looked into things and said she thought £500 was an appropriate level of 
compensation. She said she appreciated that Mr J had encountered numerous  issues 
over many years, but that she was only able to consider  the most recent contact.
Mr J accepted the investigators findings.  However, Capquest  didnt.  It said it thought the 
investigator was taking into account  the impact of things  that had happened prior to 2018 
and re-iterated that it didnt think this was right. 
The case  was escalated  to an ombudsman for consideration.
I issued my provisional findings to both parties in February 2020  via the investigator. 
Briefly, I said I thought I could only consider the impact of the most recent contact and 
that £300 was an appropriate  level of compensation. 
Ref: DRN2513804Mr J responded to say he was very unhappy with my findings.  He said in summary that he 
didnt think the compensation amount was anywhere near enough  to reflect  all that had 
happened over the years.
Capquest didnt comment on the amount of compensation,  but re-iterated that it didnt 
consent to us looking at what happened before  2018.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  Mr Js case 
and still think that £300 is an appropriate  level of compensation. I appreciate  this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr J in particular. But I hope my explanation helps him to 
understand why Ive reached this decision.  
Capquest has accepted that it shouldnt  have contacted Mr J in 2019 after it had 
previously told him this wouldnt happen. So, the only thing  I need  to decide is what  
Capquest needs  to do to put things right. In terms of compensation, this comes down to 
how much  distress and inconvenience  has been caused to Mr J as a result of Capquests 
error.
Mr J has said the amount of compensation needs to take into account all of the problems 
that hes had with being chased for a debt that isnt his, over a number of years.
Ive already expressed to Mr J that I accept he has had difficulties going back  over many  
years. 
What can I consider when  thinking about  compensation?
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look 
into complaints. The rules that govern  the time limits for when a consumer can bring a 
complaint are set out in the FCAs Handbook.  The relevant one, DISP 2.8.2 R, says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response or redress determination or summary resolution communication 
 unless
Ref: DRN2513804K821x#154
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP
2.8.2 R. was a result  of exceptional circumstances
As Capquest  issued its final response on 30 July 2018, Mr J had until 30 January 2019  to 
bring his complaint about being  chased for a debt that wasnt his and the associated impact 
of this. But I can see he didnt contact us until April 2019  when he raised  concerns about  
having been contacted  by Capquest again. So that was outside of the time limit that we must  
apply to all cases.
Ive also considered if there were any exceptional circumstances or reasons why Mr J wasnt 
able to come  to our service within the time limits set. Mr J has said he didnt contact us about 
the issues in 2018, because he took Capquest at its word that things had been resolved  and 
he didnt think hed receive any further contact  about debt that wasnt  his. Hes also let us 
know that hes had a number of health  issues affecting him. 
I was sorry to hear of Mr Js health  issues. From what  Mr J has said,  I dont think the health  
issues he has mentioned  meant that he wasnt able to refer his concerns to us. I think the 
main reason  he didnt  contact us within the required timeframe, was because  he thought 
everything had been  sorted and that he wouldnt  receive any further contact from Capquest. 
While I understand why Mr J decided not to refer his concerns to us, this doesnt constitute 
exceptional circumstances  that would mean I could take into account what  happened (and 
the impact of this) before  the final response letter in July 2018.
So, I can only consider  the impact  on Mr J of the contact Capquest made in 2019.
How much compensation is due?
Whilst I cant consider the impact  of things that happened before July 2018,  I can take into 
account that the impact on Mr J was heightened by the fact he had been told previously by 
Capquest that everything  had been  rectified and that he wouldnt be contacted again.
Bearing this in mind, I still dont think Capquests offer of £100 was enough.  Having carefully 
thought about whats happened  and what both Mr J and Capquest  has said about it, I still 
think that £300 represents a fair amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr J by the contact in 2019.
Ref: DRN25138044My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint about  Capquest Debt Recovery Limited and I direct it to pay Mr J a 
total of £300 in compensation.
In addition, as Capquest Debt Recovery Limited  has accepted that the relevant debts do not 
belong to Mr J it must,  per its obligations,  make sure it is accurately reporting  the status of 
accounts to credit reference agencies.
If in the future Mr J believes Capquest Debt Recovery Limited isnt reporting accurately  to 
credit reference agencies about  debts  he has previously been linked to and which Capquest 
Debt Recovery Limited has agreed  arent  his debts,  he should raise  this with them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Ben Brewer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2513804