K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns unhappy about Calpe Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the amount 
it paid out following a windscreen  claim under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr N needed to have  his windscreen  repaired after it was chipped  while  driving on the 
motorway and so started the claim process with Calpe. But he wasnt happy that it would 
only pay a maximum of £300 to replace the glass when  his replacement was going to cost 
about £1,000. So he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr N but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
the policy was clear about the amount it would pay in the event  of a windscreen claim.  And 
although he could  understand Mr Ns frustration  he didnt think Calpe had done  anything 
wrong.
As Mr N didnt  agree, the matter has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ns 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand Mr Ns frustration as he feels that he pays a lot for his car insurance and 
that the claim should be paid in full. But Calpes policy clearly explains the limit of the cover 
which is capped at £300. And Mr N accepts that this is clearly outlined  in the policy  
documentation and on the schedule of insurance.  
I know Mr N feels  that he should have a higher level of cover  as he has an executive car and 
feels that he has paid a higher premium. But it isnt this services  role to interfere with the 
commercial judgement of an insurer and the risk it wants to take on.  
Calpe has decided the amount of cover it wants to give is £300. I think  its entitled  to make 
that judgement  and the policy is clear on this, which Mr N accepts. So I dont think  Calpe has 
acted unreasonably in keeping to the terms of the policy by offering Mr N £300.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2710962