K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs D says Lloyds Bank  PLC trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs D say it wasnt made clear to them that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a 
copy of some of the documentation that Mr and Mrs D wouldve received when they 
started their mortgage. This explains that they didnt need buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage. They also completed a separate application form to buy the PPI. So I think  
Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that it was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial commitment. If 
Mrs or Mr D couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found this difficult 
to pay. As the mortgage was secured on their home, Mr and Mrs D couldve 
potentially lost their property if they fell into financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  payment if either of them couldnt 
work due to illness, or they lost their job. The payment wouldve been in addition  to 
any employer, or unemployment  benefits,  they might  have received if this happened. 
It couldve provided a payment for up to 12 months per claim. And they werent 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. So overall the PPI 
seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at 
the time.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN26989592To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2698959