K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) in connection with 
a claim he made to it on his home  insurance  following a water leak.
background
In the middle of February 2017,  there  was a leak from the sink in the en-suite bathroom in 
Mr Bs home and this was notified  to LV. During the notification call the hall carpet  was said 
to be wet. When  LVs loss adjuster visited Mr Bs home in mid-March  2017  further damage  
was found. This was attributed  to a leak from under  the bath in the main  bathroom.
Mr B believed, as well as damaging his bathroom, this second leak had affected his kitchen 
and sitting room (the bath straddles the wall between  the two rooms). In May 2017 LV began 
drying the property  and undertook repairs in the kitchen. But Mr B wanted  to upgrade  his 
bathroom so LV, having stripped  and dried  it, said it would  settle  in cash for the 
reinstatement work  that would have been needed as a result of the insured damage (the 
floor under the bath needed repair).  LV said the damage in the sitting room was unrelated.
Mr B was unhappy, particularly with the repairs carried out in the kitchen. He also felt the 
settlement for the bathroom  was insufficient given  the work required. Mr B felt everything 
had taken far too long and the impact  on him and his family had been significant.
In July 2017 LV issued  a final response. It accepted there had been some  delays and 
offered £100 compensation.  Whilst it felt the family  had still been able to cook  it offered  
£10 per adult and £7.50 per child, per day for a period of six weeks  as a disturbance 
allowance. It said it wouldnt  extend  that period, its settlement was fair.
Mr B complained to this service and our investigator considered his complaint but didnt think  
it should be upheld.  Mr B objected and we passed  his points to LV. Following this and some 
further contact from either side LV did make  some offers in respect of a few of the issues
Mr B had raised  concerns about. But it wasnt minded  to accept liability for the rest.
As an impasse had been reached the complaint  was passed to me for consideration; I felt 
more information  was needed and asked both parties for further  details. Having received 
some responses I felt that still more  was required. Once I received everything that I felt Id 
likely receive  I issued a provisional decision based  on the evidence I had available.  
Both parties  have now responded to my provisional findings. LV accepted them.  Mr B made 
further comments and provided further evidence which was shared  with LV and in respect  of 
which it issued a further response. I considered that and advised both parties of my further 
findings. Both have  now responded  and Im issuing my final decision,  which  includes all my 
findings, as well as the responses from both parties  and my comments  in reply.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
carpets
Ref: DRN23683362Mr B said the landing carpet needed  cleaning as it was left in a poor state  following the strip-
out work  to the bathroom. The hall carpet  was said to be mouldy. LV did, during our 
investigating, agree to clean the carpets.  I, however,  noted that cleaning  was unlikely to deal 
with the mould  that LV accepted was affecting the hall carpet. LV said the mould  was a
pre-existing problem and not something it was responsible for.
I think its very difficult for LV to deny liability for the hall carpet.  It was told in February 2017 
that the carpet was wet, yet it did nothing to lift or dry it until it started  drying the property as
a whole in May. Mr B was away for part of April, which likely explains why drying didnt begin 
in that month. But there  was no good reason why the carpet couldnt have been dealt with 
immediately after notification of its damage in February 2017. Leaving  a wet carpet in-situ is 
likely to cause mould growth  and Ive seen nothing  that makes me think it was mouldy even 
before it became wet. I think LV needs to replace the carpet.  And the hall stairs  and landing 
run as a continuous  area so LV will need  to replace  the whole  carpet (which means the issue  
in respect of cleaning  the landing carpet falls away).
It isnt clear to me if Mr B has already replaced  this. If he has then LV will need to reimburse 
his outlay. If he hasnt then hell need  to get quotes for replacement  and provide them  to me 
in response to this provisional decision.  Ill share  them with LV and then decide what it needs  
to pay. If LV thinks  its suppliers could provide the carpet then Ill consider  that option and will 
ask Mr B for details  about cost to fit the carpet.  Given everything Ive seen  I dont think it 
would serve the interests of either party to require LV to carry out any further work itself at
Mr Bs home.
Mr B sent in a quote for replacement totalling  £4,992.65. LV pointed  out there was no detail 
to show what area this cost applied to or type/quality of the carpet.  I told both parties  that 
I understood LVs reservations and I wasnt satisfied that Mr B had shown this cost related to 
him replacing his hall/stairs/landing carpet on a like-for-like basis. I said though that the time 
for further  assessment and debate had passed  and I felt it was reasonable to set a 
pragmatic amount for LV to pay. I said I felt a payment of £2,000, seemed like a fair sum 
which balanced what Mr B had asked for against the fact that insufficient supporting 
evidence to show that sum was reasonably due had been provided.
LV accepted what Id said, and didnt seek to challenge the cost Id recommended it pay. 
Mr B felt the whole estimate should be paid and sent further evidence in respect of the 
replacement carpet. 
Im still not convinced that it would be fair to make LV pay more than the £2,000 I previously 
suggested for replacing Mr Bs carpet.  Not least because the retailer  which has provided  the 
estimate is a large national department  store and I have no evidence to show that Mr Bs 
original carpet came  from it. Nor do I have any detail to show that the carpet being estimated 
for is the same or similar to the carpet Mr B had before. And the estimate doesnt set out any 
sizes or measurements. Im satisfied  that its fair for me to require LV to pay Mr B £2,000 to 
replace the carpet.
My provisional findings continued:
lounge ceiling damage
I think LV has to accept liability for this. The damage  is just the other  side of the wall from the 
damage in the kitchen  which LV accepts  was caused by a leak from under the bath. LV has 
Ref: DRN23683363said the lounge  ceiling  damage has resulted from faulty sealant around  the bath. But I fail to 
see how it can reasonably  conclude water getting through faulty  sealant  around the bath has 
caused damage in the lounge whilst separately, although around  the same  time, water from
a leak under the bath has caused  damage  in the kitchen  (just the other  side of the dividing 
wall).
I intend to require  LV to make a payment to Mr B in this respect. If Mr B has had the work 
done already then he can provide an invoice to me in response  to this provisional decision,  
which Ill share with LV. If he hasnt then Ill need  to see an estimate for repair.  In case Mr B 
hasnt or cant get those  documents,  Id ask LV to give an indication  of what it thinks this 
would likely  cost. Ill then decide what it should  pay.
Mr B provided estimates for reinstating the lounge, one for £1,810 for works and materials 
excluding wallpaper,  and one for £958 for wallpaper.  LV thought  it should  have the 
opportunity to assess the damage in the lounge before agreeing to repair costs. I said I felt it 
should pay the £1,810  as it had the chance  previously to assess the damage but hadnt 
taken it. But I also told both parties that I didnt think Mr B had sufficiently shown that the 
replacement wallpaper  he was asking LV to pay for was like that he had before. I said to 
balance the fact that Mr B hadnt  satisfied  me of this against the fact that LV hadnt assessed 
the damage when  it had chance, Id set what I felt to be a fair sum for LV to pay in this 
respect. I said I felt £584 was fair, being  half the cost of the £68.00 per roll paper, plus the 
full cost of the other rolls priced at £35.00 each.
LV accepted my findings in this respect.  Mr B said all his home  was finished with quality 
items and he could send samples of wallpaper  if I wished  to compare the quality.  
I appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about  this but Im not minded to consider  this further or 
amend my findings.  I might be able to gain some idea from comparing wallpaper  samples  
whether they are of a like or not. But, even then,  that wouldnt justify the expensive  paper 
Mr B is requesting  because I dont know that is the paper he had before and I think  its 
likely that there are similar ones, even in terms of quality, on the market  that are priced  more  
competitively. Price doesnt  necessarily determine quality and departments  stores are more  
likely to be more expensive, even  for the same goods, than other retail outlets. So Im 
satisfied that requiring  L&G to pay £1,810 and £584 for the reinstatement  of Mr Bs lounge is 
fair and reasonable. 
My provisional findings continued:
bathroom settlement
Mr B said it would  cost him £2,564 to reinstate his bathroom (just regarding  insured 
damage). LV has said its offered £826.53  for the bathroom reinstatement.
Having considered LVs own estimate for work, and before adding VAT, I see the cost was 
said to be £871.65. So its settlement offer (which was some  £45 less) as a whole  doesnt  
make sense. Im minded to make  it pay the additional £45.12.
There are then differences in the costs  between what Mr B says the work will cost him and 
what LV has allocated. It isnt unusual though  for an insurer to be able to carry out work for 
less than it will cost a policyholder. And as Mr B wanted  to do other work in the bathroom, LV 
settling in cash based on its cost, even after stripping and drying, isnt unreasonable.
Ref: DRN23683364There are two big costs on Mr Bs estimate, these seem to be the main cause of the 
difference in cost. There is £600 for floor tiling and £1,500 for re-fixing the bathroom  suite 
and radiator.
Taking the latter first; £1,500 for re-fitting plumbed items to their original piping seems 
somewhat excessive to me. LVs estimate seems to have allowed around  £325 for this 
(before VAT) which  doesnt  seem unfair  and whilst it will be less than what Mr B can have 
that work done for, it does seem to take all fitting issues  into account and, as I explained 
above, LV can pay for the labour at the rate that it would have been charged.
Moving on to the tiling.  Mr B has asked  for £600 for 6 square metres of tiling at £40 per 
square metre. I havent seen proof of the cost for these, or proof of the cost of fitting the 
tiling. As £600  is more than the tile cost (of 6 square  metres at £40, which  is £240), it seems  
likely to me that the remainder is the fitting cost that Mr B is asking for. So this makes £240 
for tiles and £360 for fitting. In contrast  LV says theres 4.88 square metres of tiling required, 
and using a standard grade tile, the cost including fitting (before VAT) is £277.57.  LV hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence that this sum reflects a like-for-like  replacement  tile.
So LV hasnt convinced me that its settlement for tiling is fair  because  it should be able to 
show that it was pricing its replacement on a like-for-like  basis.  But Mr B hasnt shown me 
what his cost will actually be, or what tiles he had in place previously against the tiles he 
intends using  or has used  now.  As LV hasnt shown its settlement was fair, I think it should 
pay more but I cant reasonably make it pay what Mr B is asking for as he also hasnt shown 
evidence to support that price. The fair answer, I think, is to say LV should increase the 
bathroom settlement  by £161, which is roughly half of the difference between  what LV said it 
would pay (£277.57) and what Mr B asked for (£600).  If the bathroom settlement has been 
paid then LV will only now have to pay the additional  £161  being the additional  cost for tiling.
LVs estimate also allowed for re-fitting a cabinet. Mr B though has said when it came to his 
contractor re-fitting this item it wasnt possible to do so and it needed replacing. Mr B initially 
put this at a cost of £100, later he told us it was worth £200  and more recently that this was a 
large double  unit that will cost £600 to replace. Im not persuaded that it would be fair to
make LV pay anything  for this item. It isnt clear that it was damaged  either by the leak or by 
being dismantled. Nor that it was necessary to dismantle and store  it just for the insured 
reinstatement works  to be undertaken. And the uncertainty  as to its size and cost also make 
it difficult for me to justify any payment.
LV accepted what I said. Mr B still felt LV should pay more, he sent an estimate for £2,460.  
Regarding the cabinet Mr B sent a shop label showing a single cabinet priced at £140.00 
and said as his was a double cabinet  replacement would cost £280.00. He later sent a 
picture of another cabinet priced at £340.00,  which he said hed have to buy two of, so LV 
should pay £680.00.
Mr Bs further evidence doesnt assist as the figures  dont tally with what  Ive seen before 
and what Mr B asked for settlement against.  The estimate for the bathroom itself doesnt  
tally with the detail Mr B sent before (when  he said the cost for the bathroom work was 
£2,564 and included a breakdown for that work, a breakdown which doesnt feature on the 
estimate currently provided). And the price Mr B has asked  for for the bathroom cabinet has 
changed throughout the claim and complaint too. In respect of the bathroom  and cabinet,  
with the exception of the payments I recommended  previously,  Im not satisfied that LVs 
settlement was unfair or unreasonable. So Im just going to make  it pay the additional £45.12  
difference between  LVs estimate and settlement and £161.00 for the tiling.
Ref: DRN23683365My provisional findings continued:
power supply to cooker hood
Mr B said that when  LV removed the wall units to strip the kitchen, it disconnected a 
junction box that was in the units and which powered the cooker hood. Mr B had this 
reconnected at a cost of £160 and asked LV to reimburse his cost. LV refused stating Mr B 
had chosen to remove the cooker  hood  to redecorate. Following  my involvement LV has 
finally understood the situation and has accepted that it did remove  the wall units, meaning it 
likely disconnected  the junction  box too.
As the box was disconnected it likely  needed reconnecting. However, Mr B has been  unable 
to provide the bill showing what he was charged and paid for this. To me, £160 for a 
relatively simple reconnection job, that wouldnt take an electrician that long to do, seems a 
bit high. I cant  reasonably  require  LV to pay all of this sum without proof  from Mr B that this 
is what he paid for that work.  I think the work could be done for £100 so that is what Im 
going to require LV to pay. And as this is effectively a compensatory  amount (because there 
is no proof), Im not going to require LV to add interest to the sum.
LV accepted what I said. Mr B said he had paid £160 for this work which  had been very time 
consuming for the contractor. Whilst I appreciate what Mr B says, I cant fairly make LV pay 
a sum which  I accept seems unreasonable when  there is no proof that this sum was actually 
incurred by Mr B. I stand by my provisional  finding  that LV should pay £100.
My provisional findings continued:
cable by fridge
Mr B says that LV left this cable hanging. He hasnt, through no fault of his own,  been able 
to be very clear about what the cable is for. LV though says it isnt responsible for this  that 
it didnt work  in that area of the kitchen and that Mr Bs son removed the cable.
Ive seen the strip out plans and considered  the detail Mr B has provided about the cable 
(and which has been shared with LV). The cable seems to have powered sockets next to the 
fridge and kitchen larder units. It was concealed  in the ceiling before strip out. It is now not 
connected. It isnt clear  if the sockets  have  power and/or if they are now powered by an 
unconcealed (and separate)  cable.  But it is clear  to me that this issue does relate  to the area 
where LVs contractors were doing  work. So whilst it isnt clear at this stage what needs
doing to sort this problem out, LV is, in my view, liable for it.
In response to this provisional decision Id like to hear more from both parties on this issue.  
Particularly from Mr B as to whether the sockets have power, if he has an estimate for repair, 
and any further  detail available, along  with any photos that show more clearly what  it is that 
needs resolving.  Ill then be in a position to set out what I require LV to do in this respect.
Mr B provided an estimate for repair of £480.  LV said it was unsure whether this truly 
reflected what was needed to fix the problem  (which in itself was still unclear). It said it 
should have chance to investigate further. I said the time for investigating  had passed and 
I was minded to accept  the estimate at face value as likely  reasonably  showing whats 
needed to fix the problem  Mr B had reported.  I said it should pay this sum.  LV agreed. 
Ref: DRN23683366My provisional findings continued:
disturbance allowance
Mr B says he couldnt cook for his family  as most  of the kitchen was unusable,  not least 
because of dust being everywhere. Plus, as all the cupboards were  removed,  all the kitchen 
items were boxed. LV thinks Mr B could use the kitchen but agreed to pay him a disturbance 
allowance for a period  of six weeks at a rate of £10 per adult and £7.50 per child per day 
£2,730. Mr B thought it should  be for longer and at a higher rate (£22.50  per adult  and £8.75  
per child,  based on meal costs).
I think what LV has paid in this respect is fair. The kitchen was clearly  disrupted but that was 
a necessary result of the leak  and some disturbance  necessarily flows  from that. It was 
stripped at the end of April but I think it could  still be used to some  extent,  although not likely 
to cook main meals.  But its important to remember that an allowance like this is only 
designed to compensate additional  costs,  over and above what a family  would usually  incur.  
And whilst it isnt clear exactly when the kitchen was fully reinstated,  I think its likely that the 
first job to be done after the kitchen was found  to be dry would have been reinstating the 
ceiling. That would have  resolved a lot of the dust issues and I think  that likely occurred in 
mid-May. I say that because the property was dry by 10 May and Mr B confirmed in a call 
with LV on 24 May that he was happy  with the progress  of the reinstatement  work. Overall  
Im not minded  to make  LV pay anything more in this respect.
Mr B said LV needed  to show him what dates it had removed and refitted  the kitchen, 
otherwise it had to accept  his dates. He also provided take-away menus  to evidence the 
price of the food he had bought.
At this stage Ive assessed the evidence  from both parties and Ive decided, and explained 
provisionally, what I think the relevant and likely time periods are. LV doesnt  have to 
evidence anything further to me or Mr B. Im satisfied by what Ive said and nothing  Mr B has 
said gives me cause to review that. I didnt dispute  originally  what Mr B had said hed paid 
for take-aways. Rather I pointed out that the allowance LV paid was only meant to cover  
costs incurred in addition to those normally faced.  Seeing the menus  doesnt  change that. 
Im not going  to require LV to pay anything more in this respect.
electricity used for drying
Mr B says LVs payment  in this respect was insufficient. I asked LV how it was calculated. It 
confirmed it was based on readings  taken  from the equipment.  That is standard  practice. But 
what LV hasnt been able to do is tell me what those  readings were or what  unit rate the 
payment was calculated  on. And I dont actually know what the payment was. But nor has
Mr B been able to show me his electricity bills. He provided some details about his bill costs. 
But not the bills themselves. I need further information on this from both parties in response 
to this provisional decision.
Neither party provided any further evidence in this respect. Therefore, Im not going to make 
any finding about LVs payment for electricity costs.
My provisional findings continued:
claim payments
Ref: DRN23683367Whilst LV offered a payment of £2,830  at one stage, which  included  £100 compensation, its 
file information  shows this was paid by cheque which Mr B didnt cash. It was paid in respect 
of disturbance allowance.  There  are various  other  sums for items that LV seems to have  
agreed to pay at times but, and despite  my asking, LV has been  unable to provide much  
clarity about what payments have actually been made. For completeness  Ive confirmed
here what I think LV has paid and what its agreed  to pay but hasnt. Anything  I think it hasnt 
paid will feature  in my final decision award unless I receive evidence  in response to this 
provisional decision that makes me think such would create a duplication.
Granite table replacement  £70. Satisfied LV paid this in early December 2017.
French polishing  stair woodwork  £1,044. Payment agreed 10 September  2018  but Ive 
not seen evidence that this has been paid. It will now attract interest from the date LV 
agreed to pay it until settlement is made.
Insulation  and ply-board  £120.  Payment agreed  15 October 2018 Ive not seen 
evidence that this has been  paid. It will now attract  interest  from the date LV agreed to 
pay it until settlement is made.
Kitchen floor  £475. LV says this was paid in September 2017, Mr B hasnt said to us at 
any stage that its outstanding, so Im currently prepared to accept that this was likely 
paid.
Bathroom reinstatement  £826.53. Offered to Mr B but never paid. It will now attract 
interest from the date LV agreed  to pay it until settlement  is made.
Disturbance allowance   £2,730. LV said on 22 August 2017 it realised Mr B wasnt 
happy with the payment but could reissue  this cheque for him. It didnt  tell Mr B he could 
accept the amount  and still complain to this service. Itll now have to reissue this payment 
with interest from 22 August 2017  until settlement is made.
Neither party objected  to what I said. Ive no cause to change  my provisional  findings.
My provisional findings continued:
compensation
LV offered  £100 compensation previously. Ive found that its settlement offers have been  too 
low and that it needs  to do more  in respect of some  snagging issues.  I think  that once LV 
began stripping and drying the property,  work  progressed in a satisfactory manner, but as 
mentioned above  I dont  think  the early  months  of the claim were  handled  well. And work 
shouldve begun sooner. Mr B was upgrading his bathroom so LV isnt responsible for any 
delays regarding that reinstatement. I think £500  compensation is fairly  and reasonably due.
LV accepted my findings. Mr B said there  should  be more compensation as this has taken 
up a lot of his time. Whilst I appreciate  how Mr B feels about this, nothing  hes said in 
response gives me cause  to think my initial suggestion for compensation was unfair or 
unreasonable. Im not going  to amend  my provisional findings. Im going to require  LV to pay 
Mr B £500  compensation.
I concluded my provisional findings with comments about VAT, excess  and interest:
LV wont have to pay Mr B any sum for VAT unless or until work is done  that attracts VAT. If 
Mr B is asked to pay VAT he can submit any final invoice to LV for it to pay the VAT due 
against the work and cost it was liable for.
Ref: DRN23683368LVs file confirms that an excess for both claims was paid to the drying company. Therefore, 
Im not going  to make any allowance in my award in respect of excess.
For any payment that Ive found LV should  pay interest on it will be at a rate of 8% simple, 
and from the date Ive stated until settlement is made by LV.
Neither party objected  to my comments in these respects. Ive no cause to change  them.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B:
£2,000 to replace  the hall/stairs  and landing carpet.
£2,394 to repair the lounge (£1,810 for works and some materials  plus £584 for 
wallpaper).
£45.12 being the additional amount reflected in the bathroom scope beyond  the 
settlement figure previously offered, plus interest* from the date the overall bathroom 
settlement figure was offered  until settlement  is made.
£161 for likely additional cost of tiling.
£100 for the repair to the cooker-hood power  supply.
£480 to resolve the cable issue.
£1,044 for French polishing, plus interest* from 10 September 2018 until settlement  is 
made.
£120 for insulation and ply-board,  plus interest* from 15 October  2018 until settlement is 
made.
£826.53 in settlement for the bathroom, plus interest* from the date this sum was offered 
until settlement is made.
£2,730 for disturbance allowance, plus interest* from 22 August 2017  until settlement is 
made.
£500 compensation.
Any VAT cost Mr B incurs  on insured  work and evidences to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest 
due to Mr B, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2368336