K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the customer  service  he received from Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) when he called  them in December  2018 about a business overdraft.
background
Mr H received a letter  from Lloyds in November 2018 relating to an annual review  of his 
business overdraft.  
Mr H then waited a few weeks  and called Lloyds on 18 December 2018.  It was during this 
call that Mr H and Lloyds  had a discussion about Mr Hs company  as Lloyds say it had come 
to light that the overdraft  facility was being  used to purchase stock (cars). 
A one month extension  to the overdraft  was offered to Mr H  which  he declined  and then 
the overdraft facility automatically renewed  on 31 December 2018  because of Lloyds system 
automation. Mr H was then charged  the yearly overdraft fee of £480.
Mr H complained to Lloyds and said the way they dealt with the renewal of the overdraft left 
him unsure what was happening and ruined his holiday. 
Lloyds accepted their customer  service  fell below what they should  have  delivered  and made  
a total offer of £100 for any inconvenience  caused.  Mr H didnt accept this and referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator  felt that Lloyds  offer was a fair way to resolve  the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the letter  dated 12 November 2018,  Lloyds told Mr H; Your Business Overdraft is due for 
its annual review - let us know if your needs  have changed. It goes on to tell Mr H how to 
contact Lloyds if hes aware of any changes that may affect his business  in the coming  12 
months, that the bank may contact him as part of their review and that hell have to pay a 
£480 annual  fee to use the overdraft facility. 
Mr H contacted Lloyds  on 18 December 2018  to speak  about the overdraft  facility.  One 
of Mr Hs complaint points in his letter  to Lloyds on 19 December  2018  is that he contacted 
them rather  than them contacting him. In my opinion, the letter  Lloyds sent to Mr H makes it 
relatively clear that theyll contact him as part of their review if they need information  and that 
Mr H only needed to pro-actively contact Lloyds if he was aware of any likely  change in the 
coming 12 months. 
Ive also seen a transcript of the phone  conversation  between Mr H and Lloyds on 
18 December 2018. Based on this, it seems that Mr H made Lloyds aware during the call 
that hed been using  the overdraft facility for buying stock   which  went against the terms of 
the overdraft. As a result Lloyds followed their internal process and explained they needed to 
go through a full application. Mr H declined this initially,  then started to go through  it but then 
stopped before it was completed  as he wasnt prepared to give some of the information  
required.
Ref: DRN25217232I also think that Lloyds  took positive steps such as offering to extend  the overdraft facility  by 
one month  to help Mr H gather the information  needed for the application and ensure that 
everything was ok when  he returned  from his holiday. Mr H declined this option and said that 
hed repay  the overdraft.  Lloyds also offered Mr H £100 for any inconvenience  caused
Ive considered everything that Mr H has said, including his comments after our 
investigators assessment  about  the renewal  date. The two statements that Mr H has 
provided show different  renewal dates. The statement issued 10 December  2018  shows  an 
overdraft review date of 31 December 2018. The second statement dated 9 January 2019 
shows a review date of 31 December 2019. 
I dont agree with Mr H that this shows that when  he called  Lloyds on 18 December  2018  the 
overdraft had already  been renewed.  I think its reasonable that Lloyds  made some further 
enquires when  he let them know his intended use for the overdraft. But I do find it slightly 
unusual that the auto renewal went ahead on 31 December 2018  based on the discussions 
that took place  as it doesnt seem that this was agreed between both parties. 
Ultimately however I dont  think that Mr H has lost out by the overdraft renewing as it seems  
that he continued to avail of the facility throughout this year (2019) and Lloyds have already 
made an offer of compensation for any inconvenience caused. I think  that the £100  that 
Lloyds have offered  Mr H is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  the complaint and I dont 
make any further award  
Ive also confirmed this with Lloyds and theyve  said that the overdraft wont  auto renew at 
the end of this year.  
additional points  raised  by Mr H.
Mr H wanted to know why he couldnt access his overdraft details via his online bank 
account and some details about the renewal. 
Ive asked Lloyds  about this and theyve asked that Mr H contact them  through  their internet 
banking helpline  to discuss  further.  Lloyds have  also said that the overdraft limit is in place 
until 31 December 2019 (next month).   As this renewal date is approaching, this is 
something that Lloyds  and Mr H have the option  of discussing further  before the renewal 
date. 
Lloyds have provided a statement that shows the overdraft renewal date is 31 December  
2019. Theyve also said that the terms and conditions of the overdraft have not changed 
significantly since the previous renewal. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN25217233
Ref: DRN2521723