K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  policy  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr R took out PPI in one of Nationwides branches  in 2000 at the same  time as he applied 
for a mortgage. The policy  gave him unemployment protection.  He paid a monthly amount 
for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R says he didnt feel he had a choice. I cant know  what  was said in the meeting so Ive 
thought carefully  about Mr Rs comments and looked at the available paperwork.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that was completed in the branch  when  Mr R applied 
for his mortgage. On this there was a separate section for PPI in which some details have 
been printed directly  onto the form. I think its most likely this was the result of a conversation  
between Mr R and the representative from Nationwide, and reflected what Mr R said he 
wanted. I say this based on what we know about  Nationwides sales process at the time and 
the fact Mr R only took out unemployment  cover  not the much more usual combination of 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr R has signed this application form. And I think  the wording of the PPI section makes it 
clear what  he was agreeing to. Its possible that on this occasion  Mr R was led to believe  he 
had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage, but I have to reach a conclusion  about 
what I think is most likely,  based on the balance of the evidence.  And Ive found nothing  in 
the paperwork from the time of the sale that indicates the PPI was presented  to him as 
mandatory. 
So overall, I think its most likely Nationwide made Mr R aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Nationwide has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R, and from what Ive seen I think  
thats probably right. Theres no evidence that it reviewed  his individual  circumstances as 
part of the sales  process.  So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr R got all the information  he needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
him. 
Ref: DRN26725462Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  he 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if he had received better  information.  I say this 
because:
Mr R was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mr R wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, such  
as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types of 
employment contract. Whilst  he had a second job at the time, the hours  he worked and 
the terms of this policy meant  he would only need to be made  redundant from his main 
employment to be able to make  a claim.  As he couldve benefitted from the full extent 
of the cover, I think it unlikely  better information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations would have  changed his decision to buy it.
Mr R was entitled to statutory sick pay but this policy only gave him unemployment 
cover so that isnt relevant to my review. He had no savings or other income protection 
and the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months. Given the consequences of 
defaulting on a large and long term debt secured against his home,  I think  the PPI 
would have been useful  for Mr R if he became  unemployed. 
I dont  know when the cost was first made clear to Mr R but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And he could cancel it without further  cost if at any 
stage he no longer  wanted it.
So, it follows  I dont think Mr R has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2672546