K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about Scottish  Equitable Plc (Aegon). He is unhappy that it intends to 
reclaim an overpayment of over £6,000 from his pension which  arose from an error around  
the recording of his date of birth. 
background
Mr Ks pension  with Aegon was set up in 2015  via his financial advisers. The pension  was 
set up with an incorrect date of birth. The year of birth recorded was five years  earlier than 
the actual birth year. The chosen retirement  date was set at 65 years  and so this was also 
five years too soon,  2017 and not 2022.
Due to the nature of the pension plan, it automatically determined the type of fund Mr K 
would be invested in based on his date of birth and his chosen  retirement age; this meant he 
was placed into the Universal  Lifestyle 2017 fund.
In December 2015, Aegon corrected Mr Ks date of birth but his nominated retirement date 
remained the same which fell in 2017, but this meant hed be aged 60 when  the pension was 
designed to pay him benefits and not 65. This was eventually resolved in 2016 so his plan 
would now be structured  to provide  him with benefits in 2022  when he was actually  65. 
Mr K was moved into the Universal Lifestyle 2022 fund.
Later in 2016 Aegon actioned Mr Ks requested  transfer of his funds, over £300,000, into a 
Self-Investment Personal Pension (SIPP).
In December 2017, Aegon  discovered  that it had overpaid Mr K by around £6,000. This was 
due to the fact that when they transferred funds to his new SIPP they had based the value 
on an incorrect unit holding. This was because when  Mr K had switched to the Universal 
Lifestyle 2022  from the Universal  Lifestyle 2017 the change had not been fully backdated.
Aegon accepted this error and offered to pay Mr K £350 for the inconvenience  caused. But 
Mr K doesnt accept this reflects  the great deal of stress  and anguish hes facing as he 
approaches retirement and the prospect of losing more than £6,000 from his pension.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He explained that with the correct  
information Mr K would have been  placed in the Universal Lifestyle 2022 fund at the outset. 
So it wasnt  unfair that his pension should  actually be valued on that basis.  The adjudicator  
also felt the compensation offered to Mr K for the inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
Mr K disagreed.  He said Aegon had made  a mistake and he should not lose out because  of 
that mistake.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont  uphold this complaint. I dont think Aegon  is acting 
unfairly.
Ref: DRN20043522It seems that when Mr Ks pension was originally set up his date of birth was incorrectly  
recorded. Its not clear to me that this error was due to Aegon.  The pension schedule  also 
included the incorrect  date but this wasnt picked up by anyone.
In 2016 Aegon held the correct date of birth and the correct  retirement  date. Mr K was 
placed into the correct  fund, the Universal Lifestyle 2022  but the switch wasnt backdated. 
This meant that when  Mr K transferred  out into the SIPP an incorrect  transfer value  was 
paid. The transfer value was higher than it should  have  been.
Aegon accepts that it made  a mistake. Had it not made a mistake Mr K would have received 
a pension  transfer value that would have reflected his being invested  in the 
Universal Lifestyle 2022 fund from the beginning as he should have been.  This would have 
been a lower value.  The fact that Aegon made a mistake doesnt  mean that it has no right to 
reclaim the overpayment and I dont think its acting unfairly in doing so.
I can understand Mr Ks disappointment and upset.  But I dont  agree that he should benefit  
from a mistake in these circumstances. I can see that his expectations will have been  raised 
and it is fair that Aegon make a payment  for the inconvenience he has suffered, but I agree 
with the adjudicator that £350  is a fair offer. And Mr K has now cashed the cheque he was 
sent. 
my final decision
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint  and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2004352