K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He also complains that the vehicle  was 
misrepresented. He wants to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr N tells us that in early  February 2019 he agreed  to acquire the vehicle from a dealer Ill 
refer to as T. He says the finance  agreement had been signed online and it was only after 
hed signed it that he was told the colour  of the vehicle was white  and not black. When he 
first went  to collect  the vehicle, Mr N says he noticed  some repairs  were  required and that T 
agreed to get these  done. But after hed collected  the vehicle several days later he says that 
there were still various problems including the clutch not responding; faulty door locks;  
funny noise from suspension; faulty screen  washer  motor;  and paint  work  fading. Mr N 
says hed provided an expert report from a firm of vehicle and bodywork repairers - which  
Ill refer to as K. He says K listed various faults on the vehicle including: rear door 
misaligned; noise  from shock  absorbers; and that the vehicle had been subject to a colour 
change from black to white. He says Ks report found that the paintwork had been of very 
poor standard and there was evidence of flaking. Mr N thinks the vehicles been involved  in 
an accident and says that T didnt disclose this to him.
BMF told us that when  Mr N had attended  Ts premises to collect the vehicle  it had been  
agreed that a number  of repairs would be carried out on the vehicle. It said these had been 
completed and that ten days later Mr N had taken possession of the vehicle. It said hed 
agreed to accept the colour change to white. BMF said it disputed that K could be 
considered to be an expert.  It said itd provided a further independent vehicle  inspection  
report from a company Ill refer to as S. Following  the report from S, which identified issues  
with door realignment and paintwork, BMF said it was willing to arrange for repairs  to be 
done. And it offered £100 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 April 2020. I indicated I was minded to 
uphold the complaint and allow  Mr N to reject the vehicle.  Since  then both parties have 
replied to my provisional view. Mr N said he didnt  agree with all parts  of the decision.  He 
said he still felt the vehicle had been misrepresented.  And stated that he hadnt used it for 
over a year. He thought  the award  of £100  for distress and convenience wasnt  sufficient. 
BMF said it still felt it should be allowed to repair the vehicle as it wasnt  structurally 
impaired. I thank both parties for their responses. As Ive not been supplied with any new 
information Im not minded to change  my provisional  view. This is largely repeated in my 
final decision  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr N has been disappointed with this vehicle. And I can see he feels  hes been 
misled about its previous  history.
Ref: DRN28910002Mr Ns hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Its also responsible  for any 
misrepresentation that took place during the antecedent negotiations and which led to the 
finance agreement  being taken out. A misrepresentation  is a false statement of fact which 
induces a customer  to enter an agreement and suffer loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA) and the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information from both parties  and Ive taken  
it all on board in reaching my decision.  If I dont refer to an item individually  its because  I 
dont think I need  to make a separate reference  to it in order  to give my reasons for my 
decision.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ill deal first with the alleged misrepresentation relating to the colour of the vehicle. Mr N 
signed the agreement online and it was only after doing so that he was advised the vehicle 
colour was white and not black as hed originally thought. But for a misrepresentation to 
occur a consumer has to be induced into an agreement by a false statement. Here Mr N 
could see when he went to collect the vehicle that it was white  not black.  So if the colour of 
the vehicle had been a material  consideration in his decision to proceed Id have expected 
him to reject  it that point. Ive also seen a note dated 20 February 2019 in which  BMFs call 
handler reports that Mr N phoned to withdraw his original complaint and said the issues had 
been sorted. And this was supported from information both from T and Mr N to say that he 
collected the vehicle on that day. If there had been  any incorrect  information supplied 
regarding the colour of the vehicle, Mr Ns subsequent actions indicate he was still prepared 
to accept it. So it wouldnt be a ground to reject  the vehicle at this stage.
Theres a requirement  for dealers to provide  customers with information which allows  a 
customer to make an informed choice prior to purchasing goods. That involves a judgment 
call as to the precise content of any disclosure. It could - but wouldnt necessarily - include 
advising of previous accident damage if the dealer  was aware of any. That would  probably  
be determined on how serious  any damage  had been.
Simply remaining silent wouldnt normally be a misrepresentation. But if a customer  asks a 
direct question about an issue of fact such  as previous accident history,  and it later turns  out 
that the answer given was incorrect, that might amount to a misrepresentation. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Mr N asked about any previous accident damage before entering the 
agreement. Nor is there anything to show the vehicle had been  previously  damaged to the 
extent that specific  attention  needed  to be drawn to the issue. In my opinion, there was no 
misrepresentation of this aspect of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN28910003Ive seen two reports  in relation to the condition of the vehicle. These are the report from K 
dated 28 February 2019. And that from S following its inspection  of the vehicle on 6 August 
2019. Im aware  that BMF questions  the authenticity of the report from K. Whilst Ks report - 
unlike the report  from S - doesnt detail the formal qualifications of the engineer or contain a 
statement of truth, in reality theres  a good deal of common ground in what  the reports 
contain. Both identify  the fact that the vehicle colour has been changed from black to white. 
Both refer to the cables adjacent to the rear offside door as being insecure and leaving the 
inner cables  exposed to the elements. And each report identifies  that parts of the paintwork 
are lifting or flaking. 
When information is received Im not required to investigate the provenance of that 
information. Its a matter of giving  it only such weight  that I consider to be appropriate. Here, 
I find that both reports have credibility and that I should take them  into account.
Following the report  by K, Mr N sought  to reject  the vehicle. Ive seen an email to this effect  
dated 4 March 2019. And in that email he specifically refers to the fault with the rear 
passenger door. This email is within 30 days of the supply of the vehicle. And within that 
time the CRA gives  a consumer the right to reject  goods if they arent  of satisfactory  quality. 
Given that the issue with flaking  paintwork and the exposed rear door cable were also 
identified in S report I think Mr Ns rejection of the vehicle shouldve been accepted.
In summary,  Im satisfied  on a balance of probabilities that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply to Mr N. I further find that as a result of those faults with the 
vehicle - which meant it didnt conform to contract  - Mr N exercised the short  term right to 
reject the vehicle. And that this was unfairly refused. I think  he should now be allowed to 
reject the vehicle subject  to payments  to reflect the use that has been made of the vehicle.
Mr N has provided information to show the odometer reading of the vehicle at 2 June 2020  
was 62,828 miles. This is only 20 miles in addition  to that recorded  by S on 6 August 2019. 
So that supports  Mr Ns statement that the vehicle has effectively remained unused since  S 
inspection.   I  think payment for fair use should reflect the actual use made of the vehicle not 
just the time the vehicles been with Mr N. Had his request for rejection been  accepted  he 
wouldnt have needed to retain  the vehicle against  his wishes.
The vehicle has covered a little over 4,000  miles since supplied to Mr N. This is about  
average use for the period  from supply to the inspection by S. Im of the opinion its fair and 
reasonable for Mr N to be liable for payments  up to this time.
I accept Mr N has experienced some inconvenience  and its taken  a long time for the 
complaint to be determined. But the purpose of compensation isnt to punish a business. It 
wouldnt be right to increase an award  simply as a result of a business  exercising  the right to 
have a complaint  determined  by an ombudsmans decision. I remain of the view that £100 is 
a fair and reasonable amount in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN28910004my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the following action in full and final settlement 
of the complaint:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr N to pay from 7 August 2019.
Payments (pro rata if necessary) which have accrued up to this date are still payable;
2.Collect the car at no further cost to Mr N;
3.Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment
            until the date of settlement;
4.Pay Mr N £100 for distress and convenience;
5.Arrange to have  details of the finance  agreement removed from Mr Ns credit file.
           This  is subject to payments being made  up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2891000