K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he was unable to pay his monthly credit card bill  for three consecutive  
months, when he switched his current account from TSB Bank plc (TSB). He says that, as a 
result, hes had default notices issued to him. He wants  all the charges that were applied  to 
the account as a result to be refunded  and wants his credit file amended as he says he 
cant get a new loan to repay his debts with TSB because of how this has affected his credit 
file.
Hes also complained about the number  of what he says are spam  phone  calls purporting 
to be from TSB. He thinks his personal  details are no longer secure with TSB.
background
Mr W had a current account,  credit  card and loan with TSB. When  TSB suffered IT issues  in 
April 2018 Mr W says he decided to switch  his current account to another bank. Shortly  
afterwards he tried to pay his credit card bill online, using his new current  account.  But it 
wouldnt work and he said he repeatedly  received error messages. Mr W said he then went  
into a TSB branch  to pay his account  but he was told it wasnt possible to do that. He says 
he was told that was because his credit  card was still linked to his previous current  account 
with TSB. Mr W says TSB admitted there were problems with its systems and told him it 
would look into the matter  but it hasnt, and now hes received default notices telling him 
his card account is with the collections team.
TSB says Mr W didnt  make his credit  card payment of 8 May 2018  while  he still had his 
current account with TSB.  He made  a payment on 31 May 2018 but no payments have been 
received since. TSB said it passed  his account to its collection team  in July 2018 and 
subsequently sent several  letters including a default notice and  in October  2018,  a formal 
demand for payment. TSB explained  that Mr W would have been able to pay his credit card 
using a direct debit which would then have  been switched to his new bank. But it said hed 
never set one up so payment couldnt be taken.
TSB says Mr W has informed it that he wont be making any card repayments until his 
complaint is resolved. 
So as he remained unhappy  Mr W brought his complaint  to us where it was reviewed by one 
of our investigators  who said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. He said there wasnt any 
evidence to support  Mr Ws statement that hed been told by TSB he wouldnt be able to 
make payments. He noted TSB had no records of any contact with Mr W until hed first 
complained. So he thought that TSB hadnt  done  anything wrong. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said there  had been too many inconsistencies in TSBs position  and 
he didnt think wed fully investigated why he was unable to make payments to his credit card 
after he switched current accounts.  He wanted  his complaint referred to an ombudsman  so 
its been passed to me for a final decision.  
Mr W has subsequently told us that he has received letters and phone calls from a recovery 
agency about his accounts. He says he wants this to stop until the complaint is resolved and 
he is unable to take out a new loan to consolidate  his debts with TSB because  he doesnt  
actually know who is responsible for his debts. It has now been confirmed that TSB has 
Ref: DRN26688442taken back his outstanding credit card debt although his loan account remains with the 
recovery agency. But TSB has said no further actions will be taken until Mr Ws complaint is 
resolved.
For clarity Id like to confirm that Im not looking  at any complaint or dissatisfaction Mr W 
might have over who is responsible for his debts. If Mr W wishes to complain about that 
matter he should  do so to TSB in the first instance.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says the issue of the missed payments has had a negative  impact on his credit file and 
he wants his credit rating to be restored.  Especially as this is affecting his attempts to get a 
new loan to repay what he owes TSB so he can move all his accounts  away from it. And I 
have some sympathy for his position  and can understand the distress this must be causing  
him. But I dont think TSB has done anything wrong here  which I know will disappoint Mr W 
 so Ill explain why.
Mr W has raised the IT issues that TSB suffered in April 2018 as his reason for switching 
accounts. And Mr W was free to make that decision. But hes also suggested that his 
security may have been compromised during this time as he says hes received spam calls 
from TSB and says he was able to look at other customers  account details. TSB has 
confirmed that this problem only affected  customers with joint accounts  which  Mr W hasnt 
ever been   but it does accept that there  were  some problems  during  that time. But Im 
unable to determine how these problems did affect  Mr W and hes not been able to provide  
any evidence to support  his claim.  But in any case its not our role to decide if a business  
has breached data protection laws. Thats for the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) to 
decide. So if Mr W does believe this be the case he can complain to the ICO.
What Mr W also said was that he believes the switching of the account meant he wasnt able 
to pay his credit card bill. So I can consider whether  that was the case and whether that had 
any impact on Mr W. Mr W said he tried to pay his outstanding credit card bill online,  then in 
a branch. He says he was told there  might  be a problem as a result of his account switch  
and he didnt make  any further payments.
Mr W has been unable to provide any evidence to show that he attempted to make the 
payment either online or in branch. And TSB doesnt  have  any record  of Mr W making any 
contact with it to discuss  any problems or to confirm what other options might be available to 
him. So I cant safely say that Mr W was told he couldnt make payments towards his credit  
card.
But even if Mr W was given the impression he couldnt make  payments in the ways he tried 
Ive gone on to consider whether this prevented him from making a payment. And Ive seen 
from the letters TSB sent to Mr W that he was made aware he should  still make his payment 
while TSB investigated the matter, so that he did not incur  charges and any issues  with his 
credit report.  
And Ive also seen how Mr Ws credit card statements explained how to pay and listed a 
number of ways  payment  could be made.  These included using a direct  debit,  paying  online, 
paying by post using  a cheque, paying  in any branch of a UK bank using a cheque or cash  
Ref: DRN26688443and telephone banking with another bank.  So I think TSB acted reasonably in trying  to 
ensure Mr Ws account was brought up to date by setting out the alternative ways that he 
could pay and making Mr W aware of the consequences if it wasnt.   
And I havent seen  any evidence  to show that TSB prevented Mr W from making his 
payment. Theres nothing to show that Mr W attempted  to make his payment  using the 
methods outlined above  and that these attempts failed. So, I think Mr W was given a 
number of alternatives to try to pay his credit  card  which  I cant  see that he used, and so I 
cant say that TSB did anything wrong  there. 
I can see that once  it was aware  that Mr W hadnt made any payments  and that he wasnt  
going to until his complaint was resolved, TSB made  Mr W aware of the position within his 
statements, then a default notice and finally a more formal demand.  So I think  TSB has 
done what was required of it to give Mr W the opportunity to make  a payment and avoid any 
further action. I would now urge Mr W to contact  TSB to discuss how best to bring his 
accounts back into line and prevent  any further damage to his credit file. 
I know Mr W would like me to tell TSB to remove  any adverse markers  on his credit  file and 
allow him to get a consolidation loan so that he can repay what  he owes  TSB and move  
away from it completely. But TSB has a duty to accurately  reflect Mr Ws credit activity  with it 
 which  I think its done here. So Im not going  to ask TSB to make any adjustments to 
Mr Ws credit file as I think its recorded Mr Ws position correctly as it currently stands.
Ultimately here when Mr W says he was made aware his payments couldnt  be made online 
or in branch  he still needed to ensure his payments were made  using alternative 
arrangements  until the matter was resolved.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019..
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2668844