K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a loan in 2009. Mr C says Number One Police Credit Union Limited, trading as
Number One Copper  Pot Credit  Union (NOCPU) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019 which Ive attached below  and which forms 
part of this decision. Essentially I felt that Mr C chose to take out the PPI knowing it was 
something he didnt  have to have. And that even though NOCPU may not have provided 
Mr C with the information needed to decide  if the policy was right for him  I dont think  this 
wouldve made a difference  to his decision to take out the policy  and I explained my reasons 
why. Mr C said that he was protected from being made redundant due to the nature  of his 
job, but as the PPI was displayed as accident, sickness  and unemployment  cover, Mr C 
wouldve known he was taking out a policy to cover him from unemployment and he decided  
to go ahead with it anyway. 
So I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. I also didnt think  NOCPU needed to pay Mr C back  
any commission he paid on his premiums  because NOCPU says Mr Cs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. So I didnt  think  it needed to tell Mr C about  the 
commission being paid and I didnt think NOCPU treated Mr C unfairly.   
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded with any comments for me to consider. So based on my previous 
findings, and in the absence of any new information,  I see no reason to change my mind 
about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  as summarised above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  monthly  premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a 
loan in 2009.  Mr C says Number  One Police  Credit Union  Limited,  trading as Number  One Copper 
Pot Credit  Union (NOCPU) mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29143712Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Im intending  not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he had no idea the PPI was added to his account. But Ive looked at the evidence available 
from the time of sale and based on what Ive seen  I think NOCPU made it clear that Mr C didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  
this now.  I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs credit agreement  which was sent to him in the 
post following his online application. In this there is a section for PPI where theres  a pre-printed  x in 
the box to agree to the cover There was also an option to say no to the policy and this box was blank. 
NOCPU says that the agreement reflects the selections and information entered online   and I think 
thats probably correct.  And I think its clear  from this application that PPI was included, but that there 
was also the option to decline the cover. So I think Mr C wouldve contacted NOCPU to ask them  not 
to include the cover  if he didnt want it at the time. Mr C signed this document, so I think it reflected 
what he wanted.
Mr C says NOCPU advised  him to take out the PPI. But NOCPU says it didnt provide any advice or 
recommendation to take out the policy. From what we know about  how NOCPU were selling PPI 
around the time, it was usually  on a non-advised basis. And I havent seen any persuasive evidence 
that advice was provided  in this sale  so Ive considered  this as a non-advised sale in my decision.
As NOCPU  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Our adjudicator initially  upheld  this case on the basis that the nature of Mr Cs employment  meant that 
he was protected  from being made  redundant   so the unemployment cover wasnt useful for him. 
And he felt that if Mr C had been  aware of this, he wouldve decided not to take out the PPI. But the 
cover was described as accident, sickness and unemployment cover online  and in Mr Cs loan 
application. So I think it was clear that the policy was designed to cover him for unemployment.  And 
as this was a non-advised sale, it was up to Mr C to decide if he felt the policy would  be useful for 
him. As Ive said above, Mr C chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Its possible some of the other information NOCPU  gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. And although  Mr C was entitled to some sick pay at the time, the PPI wouldve  paid out for up 
to 24 months  and on top of the sick pay he had. So these  funds couldve  been used  for other 
expenses at the time.
Mr C also says that had he have known  about the policy  he wouldve  made a claim on it when he was 
off work.  But from the evidence Ive seen  it doesnt look like the PPI was in place at the time he told 
us he was no longer in work.  And in any event, from what Ive seen I think Mr C was aware of the PPI 
at the point  of sale, so its possible he later forgot he had the policy but this wasnt NOCPUs fault  so 
this point doesnt  change my decision.
Overall, I dont think Mr C was mis-sold the PPI. Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on 
his PPI  and whether NOCPU  treated him unfairly.
NOCPU has told us that the commission for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of what he paid for each 
premium. Weve looked at how NOCPU  has been working this out and based on what  weve seen  it 
looks like its right  Mr Cs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I 
dont think it needed to tell him about the commission   so I dont think NOCPU  treated him unfairly. 
This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN29143713I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 8 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2914371