K820x#14Complaint
Mrs T complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB)  hasnt refunded the amount she was overcharged 
by a merchant  for car rental costs. She wants  a refund of the additional charge. She also 
says TSB didnt look into things properly when  dealing  with her claim.
 
Background
Mrs T has a TSB credit card. Her daughter, Mrs R, is also a card holder for this account. 
Mrs T hired  a car through a website. Ill call them company C. The car was hired through  a 
rental company in Spain. Ill call this company F. The booking  confirmation received by 
Mrs T from company C confirmed a further  amount was payable for an additional driver 
when the vehicle was collected in August 2018.
Mrs R collected the car. After returning  it, a further  charge was made to Mrs Ts credit  card 
account. The amount was more than she was expecting to be charged. She believed 
company F overcharged  her. And charged her twice for the rental.
In September  2018, Mrs R contacted  TSB and raised a chargeback claim. She provided 
further information to TSB in October  2018. TSB refunded the amount charged  to the card in 
August 2018,  pending company Fs response. 
 
Company F defended the chargeback claim. It sent TSB a copy of their agreement which 
had been signed by Mrs R. It said this showed  shed agreed  to the additional charges which  
had been charged to Mrs Ts credit card. And the additional charges werent for the rental of 
the car. The charges were for an additional  driver, credit card fee, additional insurance, fuel, 
service charges and taxes.
Mrs T complained to TSB in January 2019.  She said TSB hadnt looked at the dispute  
properly and wrongly sided with the merchant. She maintained shed been charged twice for 
the car. TSB rejected  her complaint. It said it didnt believe it had made an error. So TSB 
debited Mrs Ts card for the additional charges in February 2019.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied  with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked at her complaint. Our investigator  said Mrs T hadnt been charged twice  for the car 
rental. And that Mrs R had agreed the additional  charges.  So they didnt think  TSB had 
treated Mrs T unfairly when it declined her chargeback  claim.
 
Mrs T disagreed with our investigator. She maintained  shed been  charged twice for the 
actual rental  of the car. As no agreement could be reached her complaints come to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
A chargeback is the process by which card payment disputes are resolved between  card 
issuers and merchants. The rules around chargebacks are set by the card scheme, in this 
case Visa.  And TSB is required to abide  by these rules when it processes chargeback 
claims.
Ref: DRN20376202Ive looked at the booking  documents  and Mrs Ts credit card statement for the original  car 
rental booking  with company C. I can see from this that the total cost of the original  booking  
was £228.16.  The booking was for 7 days car rental  in August 2018. The total  paid was 
listed as £178.24.  This was for the car rental and insurance. The booking form says an 
additional amount of €55.65 was payable when the car was collected. The additional  charge  
was for an additional  driver.
Ive looked at company Fs rental agreement signed  by Mrs R when she collected the car in 
August 2018.  This lists the additional charges, totalling €240.57. The charges listed  are for 
an additional  driver,  credit card fee, an additional  insurance product, fuel, service  charge and 
taxes. So these  costs werent for renting the car. 
So having  looked at the evidence Im satisfied that Mrs T wasnt charged twice  for the car 
rental. And that Mrs R agreed to the additional charges. Ive also kept in mind that Mrs T 
hasnt disputed the extra charges. So these charges werent a duplicate  of something 
already paid, or an unauthorised payment.
Mrs T also complains  that TSB havent looked into her claim properly. Having looked at 
whats happened, I think TSB responded to Mrs Ts chargeback claim correctly.
When a customer makes  a chargeback claim,  the card issuer will usually provide a 
temporary refund to the customer  while the claims being considered. The merchant will be 
asked for their evidence.  If the card issuers  satisfied with the merchants explanation, theyll 
take the payment again from the customer.  In this case, Mrs T is the customer. TSB is the 
card issuer.  And company F is the merchant.
TSB contacted company F when Mrs T said it had charged her for something shed already 
paid for. Company F defended the chargeback. It said it had provided the service Mrs T had 
paid for and Mrs T hadnt been charged twice for anything. It provided  records  which it said 
demonstrated this. And that Mrs R had agreed  to the additional costs.  TSB refunded  the 
disputed amount to Mrs T whilst it looked  into things and gave Mrs T the opportunity to 
provide further  information. But she didnt submit anything new.  So faced with the evidence 
of the paperwork  submitted  by company F, I think TSB were entitled  to decline Mrs Ts 
chargeback claim
For completeness Ive also considered whether TSB should  have raised a dispute with 
company F under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 on Mrs Ts behalf.  This 
allows for a card issuer  to be liable where the party taking a payment misrepresents what its 
selling or doesnt  fulfil its part of a contract.
But for a claim under  Section  75 to be successful, the disputed  transaction  and contract 
must be between the account holder and the merchant. In this case, Mrs T is the account  
holder. And company  F is the merchant. The disputed transaction  is the payment of the 
additional charges. This was entered into by Mrs R. Mrs T wasnt  a party  to the contract. And 
so I dont think she could  claim under Section  75. 
Ref: DRN20376203My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. I make no award against TSB 
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2037620