K820x#14complaint
Ms L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a packaged bank  account  which  
it called  the Ultimate Reward  Current Account  (URCA).
background
Ms L changed from a fee free bank account to a URCA  in 2010 following a conversation  with 
Bank of Scotland in a branch.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including phone  insurance, travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover and home emergency cover.
Our adjudicator looked at Ms Ls complaint and didnt think  the URCA was mis-sold. Ms L 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Ms L was aware  the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking  the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was. Ms L says she was told by Bank  of Scotland that 
it no longer provided  fee free accounts,  that in her circumstances she wouldnt get one 
elsewhere and that she needed to have a URCA  to get a loan or an overdraft. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Ms Ls honest  recollections, I think after the years that have elapsed, Ms 
Ls memory is mistaken. I say this because she had previously had a fee free bank account 
with Bank  of Scotland. And in my view there isnt anything about  her circumstances as she 
described them or from the evidence of her bank  records that I think  would have led her to 
believe that she couldnt get a fee free account even if shed been told that. 
I think its more likely than not that she wouldve been aware at the time of sale or shortly  
thereafter that fee free accounts were easily available to her from Bank of Scotland  and 
other banks  and financial businesses.  And if she had taken the URCA and then decided  she 
was unhappy  with it she could have cancelled her account and changed to a fee free one 
but she didnt  and she still has the URCA. And while the URCA did provide  her access to 
discounted borrowing  facilities,  not having  one didnt  exclude her from borrowing from Bank  
of Scotland.
So I think Ms L was aware  she had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Ms L to take it, but Ms L 
says it did. Ive decided  to look at this complaint as an advised  sale as it is to Ms Ls 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, Bank of Scotland  needed to 
provide Ms L with sufficient information about the URCA to make an informed choice. And in 
Ref: DRN28474652recommending the URCA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the URCA 
was a reasonable fit for Ms Ls circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the URCA was suitable for Ms 
L. I say this because she had a mobile phone, she regularly went on holiday and she could  
use the car breakdown assistance  and home  emergency cover. Ms L says she had 
alternative arrangements for these things. But it wouldve  been  for her to end that and use 
her account  when she was ready. 
Bank of Scotland has provided  evidence that she registered for the mobile phone cover  in 
2011 and for subsequent years. She also used the car breakdown cover on three  occasions.
And from what Ms L has said about  her personal circumstances at the time she took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop her taking advantage of the URCAs benefits.
So in my view, Ms L knew she had a choice about  the URCA and decided  to take it. And the 
URCA was suitable for Ms L, and there was no information that she wasnt  given that would 
have put her off buying it.
So I dont  think she has lost out as result of anything Bank  of Scotland  may have done 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2847465