K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Freemans Plc took a high commission from her payment protection  
insurance (PPI) payments  and she wants a refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt my decision only deals with the issue of commission.
I know this will disappoint Miss J, but Im not upholding  her complaint. I think  the adjudicator 
has already explained the position  clearly to Miss J  theres not very much I feel I can 
usefully add. But I will nevertheless explain  my reasoning.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business (and here this means a lender) got a high level of 
commission and profit share from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and 
it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair relationship between the parties.  
So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses  should pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
However - while Miss Js account was opened  before  6 April 2007 we can only consider 
things from 6 April 2007. This is because this is the date when Miss Js lending (particular to 
the credit  product she took out) became regulated and we became able to look at a 
complaint about  the credit  (we can only look at complaints about regulated  activities.)  We 
have no powers to consider a complaint about  the credit before 6 April 2007 in this particular 
case.
Freemans has given me information  and this has been shared with Miss J - that shows  
Miss J paid PPI between 1999  when the account  was opened up until 2005. But I cant 
consider this for the reasons I said above. From 6 April 2007 onwards Miss J did not pay any 
PPI premiums despite her credit  account continuing.
So based  on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
So Freemans doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss J paid for the PPI she had 
with her catalogue account.
Ref: DRN24338242my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433824