K821x#15complaint
Ms Y has complained about the way British Gas Insurance  Limited  handled her claim under  
her home emergency insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 18 April 2019, a copy of which is included at the end of this 
decision. In this, I set out the background to Ms Ys complaint and explained why I felt British 
Gass engineers were  to blame for the fact she had to have her boiler  replaced  much earlier  
than she was expecting. I provisionally  decided that  because  of this  it would be fair and 
reasonable for British Gas to pay half the cost of Ms Ys new boiler.
I gave both parties 14 days to respond to my provisional decision.  Ms Y has responded to 
say she has nothing further to add. British  Gas doesnt think  my provisional decision is fair. 
Its pointed out that increased noise following its engineers visits and the replacement  of 
parts could well have been a coincidence. I think from what  its said previously,  British Gas 
thinks the new parts its engineers fitted  made  the boiler function at full capacity and this 
highlighted an issue with the heat exchanger and caused the additional noise. And its added 
the fact the boiler manufacturer said the heat exchanger needed replacing shows  this is 
most likely to be the case. It doesnt agree its engineers actions caused  the additional noise 
the boiler started making.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
and award the amount I suggested in my provisional  decision. 
I have thought very carefully about  what British Gas has said.  However, I dont think  the 
significant noise  Ms Ys boiler started  making  after its engineers  carried  out work on it was a 
co-incidence or because  of the boiler suddenly started working at full capacity.  I say this 
because there was a new error code after British Gass engineers  got involved and because 
of what the engineer who installed Ms Ys new boiler said about parts  being  disturbed.  I think 
these things show its most likely British Gas engineers got it wrong  and should  have  thought 
more carefully about the impact of what they were doing and been more careful in doing  it. 
This means  I still think it was British  Gas engineers failings that led to Ms Y having to have 
her boiler replaced much earlier than shed expected. And, while I accept shed have  to have 
had it replaced eventually, I still think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
British Gas to pay half the cost of Ms Ys new boiler. This means it should pay her a further 
£1,564. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Ys complaint and British Gas must pay her a 
further £1,564.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Ref: DRN27326802Robert Short
ombudsman
Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms Y has complained about  the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled her claim under  her 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Ms Y had a problem with her boiler.  It cut out every so often and showed error  code E026.  By 
pressing the reset button she could  get the boiler working again, but eventually she got the error 
again. She called British Gas to ask for help and it arranged for an engineer  to attend. This engineer 
Ref: DRN27326803believed the gas valve and igniter needed to be changed to rectify  the error. So she ordered  both 
parts and came back  with another engineer to fit them.
Straight after the parts  had been fitted  the error  code occurred again, which meant the problem 
wasnt fixed. Plus, there was a further problem in that the boiler was now vibrating and making a 
loud noise. It had made  a noise before  the engineers had changed the parts, but not a significant 
one. The engineers  ordered  a fan, as they felt this was the problem  and a third engineer  came to fit 
this. After this was fitted another  error  code - E02  appeared. And the boiler still didnt work properly  
and was still making a loud noise. The third engineer called the boiler manufacturers technical  
support team and they said the heat exchanger  needed to be replaced. This wasnt possible, as the 
parts associated with doing this were obsolete.
British Gas offered to fit a new British Gas Boiler at a discount,  provided the freeholder of Ms Ys flat 
would allow the gas pipes to be changed. The freeholder  wouldnt allow this, so British Gas said there 
was nothing more it could do. This left Ms Y with a boiler  with two error codes, which vibrated  and 
made a loud noise. She found this very stressful,  especially  as she could at least  get the boiler to work 
without having the noise prior to British Gas getting involved.
Ms Y made a complaint and British Gas paid £200 in compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience shed  experienced as a result of the service it had provided.
Ms Y wasnt  happy with this and complained to us. One of our investigators looked into her 
complaint. She initially  suggested (on the basis Ms Ys boiler was installed in 2017)
British Gas should pay her what it would have cost it to replace her boiler with a British  Gas
model. She also suggested it should pay her a further £100 in compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ms Y then pointed out her boiler  was actually  much older  than this. The investigator explained  
British Gas had told her the boiler was installed in 2017. And she went  on to explain that because 
Ms Ys boiler was over seven years old, British Gas werent obliged  to pay the cost of a 
replacement. In view of this, she said that the fair and reasonable  outcome to the complaint  was for 
British Gas to just pay the further £100 in compensation shed suggested for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Ms Y wasnt  happy about this. She explained that because of what  British Gas had done, she now 
had no option but to have her boiler replaced with a new one, as she couldnt  put up with the noise. 
She had this done at the beginning of February this year. And it cost over
£3,000. Shes  said the engineer who installed her new boiler said the following:
From his visual inspection, he found evidence  of spillage inside the boiler caused by the exhaust 
pipe which was disturbed when new parts were fitted  by British Gas engineer. He found  that there is 
rust on the clips of the exhaust pipe and one of the clips was broken. He also found  that the white 
part attached to the exhaust  pipe is looseHe said the white part can be removed very easily which 
shouldnt be. In his opinion, the noise problem is due to the fact that those  parts were disturbed 
when new parts were fitted by British Gas engineers.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to 
uphold it.
Under Ms Ys policy British  Gas isnt obliged to replace  or pay the cost of replacing  boilers that 
cant be repaired if theyre over seven years old. Ms Ys boiler was over seven  years old, so I dont 
think British Gas has to pay the cost of her new one as a result  of the policy terms. But, I think if it 
Ref: DRN27326804was British Gass  engineers  who made the problem with her boiler  worse and caused it to make a 
noise, she should get appropriate compensation.
Our investigator tried to speak to the engineer who installed Ms Ys new boiler about  what  hed said,  
but she couldnt  get hold of him. But, Ms Y has provided some photographs  and a video  in support 
of what he said and I see no reason to doubt the fact he said it.
I think this, along with the fact, the boiler wasnt making  a significant noise before British Gas got 
involved, means its most likely it was British Gas repairs  that caused  the boiler to make a significant 
noise and led to the new error code. No-one else touched the boiler other than British  Gas engineers  
and I accept there was only one error code and no significant  noise before British Gas got involved.
I appreciate British  Gas said it thinks  the new parts its engineers fitted made  the boiler work at full 
capacity and this is why it started making a noise. But this doesnt explain the new error code and 
from what the engineer  who fitted the new boiler  has said, I think this is very unlikely.  Also,  I think 
British Gass engineers  should have  considered  the impact  of what they planned to do could be 
before they went ahead and did it.
From what Ms Y has said and the video shes sent in, I can see why the noise the boiler started  
making was unbearable. And, I accept this meant  she had no option but to have it replaced 
straight away. This meant she had to pay out over £3,000 when she wasnt planning to do so.
From speaking to Ms Y, I know  she thinks British  Gas should  cover the full cost of her new boiler. But 
I dont think making British  Gas do this would  be the fair and reasonable outcome in this case. This is 
because Ms Ys boiler was quite  old and it had an error  before British Gas got involved,  which was 
stopping it working and was bad enough  for her to call British Gas out. And I still dont know what  was 
causing this error. So, I think the evidence suggests Ms Ys boiler would have needed  replacing  at 
some point in the foreseeable future.  And that means shed have had to pay out over £3,000 anyway.
Obviously, it was very frustrating for her to have  to pay this out much sooner than shed planned 
to, as she may well have  just kept resetting the boiler  had British Gas told her it couldnt  correct 
the problem. But  I cant ignore the fact that what British Gass  engineers did led to a very large 
and unexpected expense  for Ms Y, when she probably would have carried on with her existing  
boiler for some time to come.
So, I think whats needed here is a fair and reasonable  compromise on both sides.  And, I think  
British Gas paying half the cost of Mrs Ys new boiler,  in addition to the £200 its already  paid in 
compensation, would achieve this. This is because it allows for the fact that Mrs Ys boiler  would 
have needed replacing eventually.  But also allows  for the fact this is most likely  to have happened 
much earlier due to errors of judgement by British Gass engineers. And this and the £200 British 
Gas has already  paid also takes into account the distress and inconvenience and financial impact  
the whole episode has had on Ms Y.
The new boiler cost Mrs Y £3,128. This means I think British Gas should pay her a further
£1,564.
My provisional decision
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Ms Ys complaint and make British  Gas pay her a further £1,564.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27326805
Ref: DRN2732680