K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  a claim for theft 
under his photography  insurance policy and about  the way it handled his claim.
background
Mr P made a claim to RSA after his work studio was broken into and various pieces of 
equipment stolen. He told RSA that the main entrance of the building where his studio was 
situated was broken  into. He believed the thief had cut through the chains on the main door 
of the building  and then picked the lock. 
The thief was later caught and convicted.
RSA declined the claim. It said Mr P wasnt covered under the terms of his policy as no force 
and violence  appeared to have been  used to gain access to the studio.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  it. She didnt  think  
RSA had acted  unfairly  in the light of the policy terms. Mr P said it was some weeks after the 
burglary that he was asked for evidence of forcible or violent entry and by that time the 
evidence wasnt available.
As Mr P didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy  covered him for the theft of his possessions provided  there is clear evidence  of 
forcible and violent entry or exit.
RSA didnt saying  Mr Ps possessions werent stolen. But it said there was no evidence of 
force and violence being used to enter or leave the premises. 
Unfortunately for Mr P, theres  no evidence  to show how the thief got into the premises.  The 
police report states  that the method of entry was unknown. There  was some  CCTV 
evidence but this only showed  the thief walking  away from the premises carrying  what were 
presumably stolen items.
I appreciate that according to Mr P the thief cut through some chains to enter  the building. 
But theres no mention  of this in the police report.  Im not saying that Mr P made this up. Its 
just that he hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support this. So in the absence  of 
any clear evidence that force and violence was used to enter the premises,  I dont think 
RSA acted unreasonably in declining  Mr Ps claim. 
Ive also looked  at how RSA handled Mr Ps claim. I can see that when he reported  it, RSA 
asked for a copy of the police report.  Through no fault of Mr P, that took a few weeks  to 
obtain. Then RSA asked  him for evidence of forcible and violent entry  or exit. I can 
understand why they didnt require this sooner   it was reasonable to assume that this would 
have been covered in the police  report. Its a great shame if any evidence  was disposed of 
in the meantime but I cant fairly  hold RSA responsible for that.
Ref: DRN23494402my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2349440