K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  about some work British Gas Insurance Limited did trying to find the cause 
of a leak.
background
Miss K told us it had taken three  years  for BGI to resolve a water  leak in her property. BGI 
had only offered to pay £443.69, but there was internal damage, including  water damage to 
the walls,  and a big hole in the kitchen ceiling. Miss K told us the leak had affected  her 
health. She wanted BGI to fix the hole in the ceiling, and the rest of the internal damage.  
Miss Ks utility room  appears to be next to a downstairs  bathroom,  and it seems to be this 
overall area thats  affected by water  damage.
BGI sent us the records of Miss K reporting a leak to it in late 2017.  Those  notes indicate 
Miss K had reported  this problem before, and felt she was just being passed  between 
departments. Shes had an independent  drains engineer to her property, and been told that 
the drains are not the problem. Her engineer said the problem might be under the shower.  
A BGI engineer attended in late 2017, and found a leaking  pipe behind  the shower. He 
changed part of the pipework. Miss K then turned the water  on while cleaning the area,  and 
found another leak. 
Miss K told BGI that this problem has caused  damage to her home, and shed had a number 
of days off trying to get it sorted out. She says shes had over ten visits in the last few years  
and has been  passed back and forth between different  teams at BGI. She said it just 
seemed to be one problem  after another.  
BGI thinks  the problem  was caused by a poor installation of her shower.  That isnt covered 
by her policy. Its reports from the time also show a problem with the drainage from the 
washing machine,  and a leak when the washing machine is on too. 
When BGI wrote to Miss K, it said that an engineer had been out to her property on 
1 December 2017. That engineer said that the problem  came from the plumbing, and a 
plumber went out the same  day. The plumber, in turn, blamed the drains, and a drainage 
engineer was booked. A drainage engineer attended on 5 December, and found  an open 
drainage pipe on the shower outflow, which was poor installation. This was repaired. 
BGI also said that Miss K asked for an engineer to attend again, as water  was leaking under 
the tiles when she used her washing  machine. The engineer went  out on 19 December, he 
said that the drainage was slow, and so he booked a drainage engineer to attend.  
A drainage engineer attended on 21 December. He manually cleaned  the washing  machine 
waste, which left the drain flowing freely. 
BGI said an engineer  who visited on 10 July 2018  had also found a fault with the shower 
drainage, which didnt flow properly down  to the drains. It said that was poor installation.  BGI 
wouldnt work on this. And it thought that any damage or smell had been caused by this poor 
installation. So it also wouldnt pay for any of the water damage that had been caused.  It 
said this would come  under pre-existing  faults, and so wouldnt be covered by its policy. 
Ref: DRN22591372BGI said that Miss K had since confirmed  that the issue had been resolved. But she felt that 
because the problem had been going  on for three  years,  and had been misdiagnosed, BGI 
should cover  the cost of repairs to the walls  and floor, and of redecoration.  
BGI said it agreed that the situation  wouldnt have been helped by the misdiagnosis.  But the 
damage had been  caused by poor installation of the shower waste, not by its engineers.  As 
the water  damage  wasnt caused by its engineer, BGI wouldnt accept liability  for it. 
BGI also said that there had been one visit in 2014  and five in 2017 which it would class as 
unproductive, either because no work  was done  or because the root cause of the problem 
wasnt found. BGI told Miss K that it would pay her £150 in compensation for the six 
unproductive visits shed had, and £50 for the inconvenience. And it would pay back  what 
shed paid for plumbing and drains cover  for the last three years, which  was £243.69,  
because it knew it had misdiagnosed the problem earlier.
Miss K didnt accept  that. She said that whatever the problem was, BGI had missed it, and it 
should pay for the water damage  which  had happened as a result.  She didnt think the 
problem had been caused by poor installation of the shower. It had only happened in the last 
three years, and the shower had been  installed  several years  before that. 
Miss K didnt cash BGIs  cheque. It has since expired. 
Our investigator asked  BGI to send  us contact notes for Miss K from 2014 to 2017, 
engineers reports  including pictures,  and details of the damage Miss K had reported  to BGI. 
Our investigator didnt  get the additional  information that she requested.
Our investigator then suggested this complaint should be upheld.  She understood Miss K 
had first reported the problem in 2014. It took until 2017 to identify that the leak was caused  
by poor installation of Miss Ks shower.  Our investigator said repairs to the shower plumbing 
werent covered  under  the policy. But because it had taken BGI such a long time to tell Miss 
K what was wrong,  she had internal  damage  to her property. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was reasonable for BGI to take three  years  to diagnose this 
problem. She thought  that caused the damage from the leak to spread. Miss K sent us 
photos and video of her home, showing the damage. Our investigator said if Miss K had 
been told in 2014 that the leak wasnt covered under her policy, she wouldve  had this fixed 
by now. 
Our investigator thought BGI should  pay Miss K half of the repair  costs to fix the internal 
damage in Miss Ks property. She suggested half because she thought that some of the 
damage had been  caused by a problem not covered under Miss Ks policy.  Our investigator 
said Miss K would need to provide an invoice and report for all the work needing done. 
BGI didnt  agree.  It said that there must have been  some confusion around our investigators 
request for additional information,  and it had been  waiting for a reply from her before  sending 
this through. It said that if she could clarify this now, it would send the additional evidence 
shed requested. Our investigator replied, and BGI said it would  send us further  details on 
the case, but those havent  been  received. 
Miss K repeated that the problem wasnt a result  of poor workmanship when the bathroom 
was fitted, because it had been  in and working  for eight years before shed had any 
problems. And the recurring problems had caused health issues  for her and her family. 
Ref: DRN22591373But Miss K wanted to draw to our attention  the likely cost of repairs. She said shed found 
out the leak has caused a considerable amount of damage. The plasterboard  behind  the 
tiles in her downstairs bathroom has disintegrated, because its been  damp  for so long, and 
the tiles are falling  off. She thinks it could cost about  £2,500 to repair. Shes concerned  she 
may also face a similar bill for repairing the utility room too.  
Because BGI hadnt  agreed with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I thought  BGI had made 
a fair offer to settle it. This is what I said then: 
-Miss K had a home emergency policy  which provided cover for repairs to plumbing and 
drains. There was an exclusion in the policy which meant that a faulty installation 
wouldnt be covered.  But there  also seemed to be other  issues with her downstairs 
bathroom and utility room, which would be covered by the policy.
-There had been a number of issues identified  around the same  area of Miss Ks home.  
Her shower drainage wasnt properly sealed, and a waste  pipe was left open, which  I 
understood had been  repaired.  And there  was a problem with the drainage  for her 
shower, which meant that water  didnt flow down  from the shower to the drainage.  BGI 
said that this was an installation problem. But there was also water leaking when her 
washing machine  was in use. BGI suggested  at one point that this was a drainage  
problem, but I didnt think that explained  all of this issue, because a leaking pipe was 
also found behind  Miss Ks washing machine.
-BGI offered Miss K compensation totalling  £443.69. Miss K wanted much  more, because  
she said BGI should pay for repairing the water damage to Miss Ks home. 
-BGI said the root cause of the water damage  and the persistent bad smell was poor 
installation. If a drain from the shower wasnt sealed,  and if water flowed from the drain  
to Miss Ks shower,  not the other way round, then it did seem likely  that these issues 
were caused by poor installation. And I agreed that putting  these problems right wouldnt 
be covered under  Miss Ks policy. 
-But it wasnt clear if this was why Miss Ks home was so damp. I didnt think BGI had 
shown us this was the problem  which caused  the water  damage.  At least  some of the 
water damage could have  been  caused by the leak from the washing machine, or as a 
result of a problem with slow running  drains  from the washing machine, or perhaps  a 
combination of the two. 
-The evidence BGI showed us didnt  tell me the problem in Miss Ks home was clearly  
caused by something that wasnt covered under  her insurance.  Our service asked BGI 
for further information about what had gone wrong in this case,  but we hadnt  got it.
-Miss K said the problem was first reported  in 2014, and it was finally resolved in January  
2018. If that had all been the same problem,  then it shouldve  been resolved earlier.  If it 
was a problem  covered under her insurance,  it shouldve been fixed. If it wasnt a 
Ref: DRN22591374problem covered under her insurance,  then Miss K ought to have been told this, so that 
she could get it fixed herself. BGI hadnt shown  us that either  of those things happened. 
-But on the other hand, I was also not clear  on whether this was all the same problem, or 
when this damage happened, and how. Miss K showed us pictures and videos of her 
home, which seemed  to me to show a considerable amount of water damage. But on the 
information I had, it was difficult for me to say BGI was responsible  for what had gone 
wrong. 
-So we asked Miss K for more information  on what had gone wrong. I asked Miss K to set 
out for us why she called BGI in 2014 and what happened then.  When did the water  
damage first started to show? And why did she ring BGI in 2014, but then not again until 
2017? What was happening in the meantime? 
-I also said that if I was going  to ask BGI to contribute to the costs  of expensive work  in 
her home, I would need to see quotes  for that work. I didnt think I could ask BGI to make 
such a contribution without the additional information requested, and these quotes. 
-Miss K hadnt sent us this information. She asked  for a number of extensions  to provide 
it, starting in early March of this year. Our service  does need  to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this case for both sides, so I didnt think we should continue  to 
wait for this extra information.  Both sides would have a chance to comment,  and provide 
any additional evidence,  before I reached a final view.  
-BGI accepted it got something wrong  in Miss Ks home quite  some  time ago. But I didnt 
think BGI was solely responsible for what had gone wrong. I thought  that with such a 
longstanding problem,  Miss K ought  to have  taken further  steps, in particular, between  
2014 and 2017,  to rectify the problem. So I thought it was most likely that some  of this 
damage had been  done because  Miss K didnt continue to contact BGI, or take other  
steps to solve the problem,  during  that intervening time.  
-On the evidence we currently had, I didnt  think I could  attribute all, or even half, of the 
damage in Miss Ks home to mistakes made by BGI. I didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable to blame BGI when I couldnt  tell what  caused  that damage.  So I didnt agree 
with our investigator that BGI should pay an additional amount, on top of what  it had 
already offered, towards the cost of the repairs of the water damage in her home. 
-I also considered whether BGI had to pay Miss K for the ill health she said she and her 
family have experienced. I didnt think I could fairly  ask BGI to pay compensation without 
medical evidence  to confirm that theyve suffered  these  problems, that the damp in their 
home was the cause,  and without also being  able to confirm that the damp in turn was 
caused by something BGI did. So I wouldnt ask BGI to pay for that. 
-BGI provided Miss K with a service under her policy. It had done  repairs  that went  
beyond that policy  cover.  And it had offered to refund three years of policy  costs,  as well 
as compensation.  And I wasnt able to attribute the substantial  damage in Miss Ks home  
to things BGI had done wrong.  
-For those reasons, I thought that BGIs offer of £443.69 would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Ref: DRN22591375I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BGI replied, to say that it had already sent that payment to Mrs K. Mrs K sent a longer 
response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs K said that she felt her complaint,  and the stress it had caused, hadnt  been understood. 
She said shed constantly  complained about a foul smell. Shed lived with that problem daily 
for three to four years. She said it took so much time and energy, and she didnt  want to call 
because no one took her seriously. 
I know that BGI has accepted that one of its visits in 2014 was unproductive,  because  it 
didnt find the root cause of the problem. But I do think that if Mrs K continued  to experience  
problems for three to four years,  then she should have told BGI that the problem wasnt  
fixed, and continued with her claim.  I still think its most likely that some of the damage  has 
been done because Miss K didnt continue  to contact BGI, or take other  steps to solve the 
problem, during that intervening time.
Mrs K said that when she took out the policy BGI didnt mention that shower parts  werent 
covered, and she wasnt asked whether there were any parts  of the house where poor  
workmanship could  be. I wouldnt expect BGI to tell Mrs K specifically about this exclusion. 
It is detailed in her policy  documents. And I dont think its relevant whether or not Mrs K was 
asked if her house included areas of poor workmanship, particularly because  Mrs K has 
also told us that she wasnt aware of any poor workmanship  in her home.
Mrs K said that there was considerable damage  to her property because BGI hadnt  fixed  the 
leak sooner. She said this went on until she got her own engineer  out, and he told her where 
the problem was. And it wasnt until then that BGI mentioned the workmanship issue. She 
told us about the repairs  that were going  to be needed. 
Ive accepted that there is considerable water damage in Mrs Ks home. And its clear that 
over late 2017 and early  2018, BGI made  a number  of visits to Mrs Ks home to try to fix 
leaks. But I havent been able to see that this is when all the water  damage was done. Ive 
said I think its actually more likely that damage  had already  been  done by then. So Ive not 
been able to see that the damage  is BGIs  fault.
Mrs K wanted us to help her to make  the repairs. She told us that her health was better since 
the problem was fixed, the foul smell had gone, and there were no more creepy crawlies. But 
she said that a payment  of the same  amount that BGI offered would never  cover  the cost of 
the work  shed have  to get done. She wanted more, so she could pay for the work that 
needed to be done, and also to reflect the severity and duration of the problems.
Im pleased to hear that Mrs Ks health, and her home environment, have now improved. 
And although we dont  have a final cost for the work that will be needed on Mrs Ks home, I 
understand that the money that Im suggesting  BGI pays is unlikely to cover  the costs  of all 
the repairs she says are needed.  But it wouldnt be fair for me to ask BGI to pay for repairs, 
unless I could see that it was BGIs fault that this damage had been  done. And Ive explained 
why I havent  been  able to do that. So I dont think BGI has to pay for all the repairs  now.  
Ref: DRN22591376BGI also objected to my decision. It didnt think this complaint  should  be upheld,  because it 
said it had actually paid Mrs K this money before she complained  to us. But Mrs K has 
consistently referred to this as an offer. BGI sent Mrs K a cheque, and it hasnt been cashed. 
So my award will provide that BGI should now resend the amount  it initially suggested to 
settle this complaint, unless it can show that Mrs K has received and cashed its cheque.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Miss K £443.69  
compensation, if it has not done  so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2259137