K822xcomplaint
Mrs D has complained about the way in which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has 
taken charges from her plan. She is unhappy  as they were initially  taken from the cash 
account within her model portfolio and now they are taken equally across  all the assets  
within her portfolio.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 October 2019- a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Aviva said it accepted the provisional decision and carried out the calculation  to determine 
the extent of the loss. It confirmed that Mrs D had made a gain of £15.49  so it didnt  think 
any further action  was required. It also confirmed  that it had paid compensation of £300  
not £350 as I had stated  for the distress  and inconvenience caused. It provided evidence  
to demonstrate that the payment had been  made.
But Mrs D didnt agree.  She made a number of observations regarding the provisional 
decision and in particular  the terms and conditions (T&Cs), which  I confirmed set out the 
new process Aviva was going to adopt. She said:
Avivas T&Cs  hadnt changed.  She submitted copies of the previous and current 
ones to show the paragraph  in question was the same.
She disputed my findings that I think it was clear that a separate cash  account would 
be required to pay the charges  on the basis that nothing  had changed in T&Cs.
She also didnt believe the T&Cs demonstrated  that the cash  account within  the 
SIPP could no longer be used  or that it was a necessity to open a new cash 
account outside of the portfolio.
Such changes should  have been  noted within the summary of key changes 
document.
Her adviser said Avivas systems wont allow him to move cash  outside  of the 
portfolio and she would need  to cash in the whole portfolio and buy back funds  
outside of the portfolio. In such circumstances  he said Mrs D would be forced out of 
the market for some days. 
After Mrs D received Avivas calculation confirming  no loss had occurred,  she made the 
following additional points:
She (and her adviser) didnt understand the calculations Aviva  had provided  and 
wanted them  to be explained to her.
The period  over which Aviva had carried out its calculation coincided  with the value 
of the investments within her portfolio falling. So, she thought it was likely that 
investing in cash  would have provided better  returns. However,  if the calculation had 
continued from December  2018 to December  2019 its likely  this would have 
provided a loss  to Mrs D  of £70. 
Ref: DRN26358852my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  After carefully reviewing all the further  
submissions and information Ive received, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
came to in my provisional  decision.  I know Mrs D will be disappointed to hear that, so Ill 
explain why Ive reached the same  decision.
Avivas calculation. 
Mrs D says she doesnt understand  Avivas calculation  and would like it explained to her. 
She also thinks that if the calculation is continued  throughout  2019  then it becomes  in her 
favour because her investments rose in value. Although I think thats with the benefit of 
hindsight  and Ive already set out the period over which I think  the calculation  should be 
carried out, based on when I think Mrs D was made aware of the change to the charging  
structure. Ive not been provided  with any evidence to show that Mrs D wasnt  made aware 
on that date  so Im not persuaded to change my view on the dates used for the calculation. 
But Ive seen the details of the calculation and I cant  say there  are any obvious  flaws in the 
methodology adopted by Aviva. We dont perform detailed actuarial calculations  and Mrs D 
hasnt said that she thinks the calculation is wrong  just that she doesnt fully understand it, 
so theres no reason  for me to say that Avivas calculation is incorrect. If Mrs D wants to 
arrange a check, she could look into getting an independent calculation  carried out. But Im 
satisfied with the way Aviva  has carried  out the calculation   and with its demonstration of 
the outcome that Mrs D is now better  off as a result of the charges being taken across her 
whole portfolio. 
The terms and conditions
In my provisional decision I said that I thought  Aviva acted reasonably by applying  the new 
T&Cs which explained the change in how the charge would be taken ; Mrs D didnt agree 
and she provided  copies of the T&Cs that applied before, and after the change. She said 
there hadnt been any changes made  to them.  
I asked Aviva for its comments and it confirmed  that there werent any changes  to the T&Cs, 
but it explained that the new model worked in a different way and when the migration of 
platforms occurred the charges  were automatically taken differently. 
Ive seen a copy  of Avivas model  portfolio FAQs update which  was created to help 
advisers and said that model cash is now treated as an asset in its own right and cannot be 
used to pay fees and charges or withdrawals.
But Aviva has now gone further and confirmed  that it may not have communicated  this 
change to advisers and of course  we know that it didnt communicate the change to Mrs D. 
So, Ive concluded  that Aviva didnt  provide  any information about the forthcoming changes 
and as its T&Cs also didnt confirm those changes it wouldnt have been  possible for Mrs D 
or her adviser to have considered setting up the new cash  account  (outside  the portfolio) or 
to transfer elsewhere.
Aviva needed to make Mrs D and her adviser  aware of the way fees would be taken 
following migration to the new platform  but it didnt do so. If it had of done, bearing  in mind 
Ref: DRN26358853it wasnt possible for Mrs D to continue with her existing method of paying fees, she would 
have been able to consider which of the options  that were available she would like to adopt. 
But in any case,  even if I was to accept  that the change  wasnt communicated clearly  and 
that it wasnt set out as I would expect it to be, Ive already said that Mrs D wasnt made 
aware and that Aviva  acted unfairly  here.  I said it should aim to put Mrs D as close to the 
position she would have been in just after 22 November  2018, had she been able to pay her 
plan fees from the new cash account  instead of them being taken from across all of her 
assets. Aviva has carried out that calculation and its shown that Mrs D benefitted from the 
change, so theres no compensation payable to Mrs D there.
Ive also reconsidered  the impact this matter had on Mrs D and her retirement  planning. In 
my provisional decision I said that Aviva  had offered Mrs D £350  for the trouble  and upset 
this matter had caused.  On reflection  Ive now seen that the amount paid was £300. 
However, I think £300 is still fair and reasonable based on the impact this matter had on 
Mrs D and her retirement planning.  So, Im not going  to ask Aviva  to pay anymore.  
Its unfortunate that, following  my decision that Aviva  did something wrong here, Mrs D 
hasnt received any compensation and I can understand her frustration over that matter. But 
ultimately our role is to ensure that Mrs D hasnt been financially disadvantaged by Avivas  
actions. I can sympathise with Mrs Ds feelings  here,  but Aviva  has shown that she hasnt 
been disadvantaged and Im satisfied that the compensation shes received  for the distress  
and inconvenience  she suffered is fair and reasonable.  
Mrs Ds adviser  says that in order to realign with the new charging structure he needs to 
cash in the portfolio which will mean Mrs D is out of the market for some time. Aviva has 
provided a model  portfolio- functionality guide which I can see is a step by step guide  on 
how to create, amend  and rebalance models. It says this guide is available to advisers  and 
should allow  Mrs Ds adviser to carry out the changes. It also says that it can recreate 
portfolios that are unable to be changed by advisers,  so Mrs Ds adviser should work with 
Aviva to obtain the guide if necessary and then ask Aviva  to recreate the portfolio  if hes 
unable to change  things. Aviva has suggested  it already altered the portfolio in 
May 2020, so I hope this issue is now resolved. 
Although Im satisfied  that Aviva has carried out the calculation in line with the method I put 
forward and has already paid the £300 compensation that it originally  offered.  Ive set out the 
redress methodology again below  as part of this final decision. 
Fair compensation
My aim now is that Mrs D should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in had she had been made  aware  of the changes to how her pension  
charges would be taken.
I take the view that Mrs D would have probably decided to set up a separate  cash fund 
outside the portfolio. 
Although its not possible  to say precisely what she would have done differently, Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mrs D's circumstances and 
objectives when  she invested. 
What should Aviva  do?
Ref: DRN26358854To compensate Mrs D fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Mrs D's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Aviva should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mrs D's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Aviva is unable  to pay the total amount into Mrs D's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Aviva  has already paid Mrs D £300  for the disruption caused to her retirement 
planning. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs D how much has been  taken off. Aviva should give Mrs D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Aviva 
pensionstill existsAviva 
pension  
based on the 
way of taking  
charges  from date that 
Aviva 
changed to 
new platform 
and Two weeks 
after Aviva  
confirmed  the 
change to 
Mrs D in its Any loss 
confirmed at 
the end date 
needs to be 
brought  up to 
Ref: DRN26358855a new cash  
account set 
up outside of 
the model 
portfolio.  disinvested 
across  all 
funds.letter of 22 
November  
2018.date using the 
returns from 
Mrs Ds actual  
model  portfolio.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Aviva should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Aviva totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Mrs D in a clear, 
simple format.
Ref: DRN26358856Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 August 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26358857copy of provisional decision
about the complaint
Mrs D has complained about  the way in which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  (Aviva) has taken 
charges from her plan. She is unhappy as they were initially taken from the cash account within her 
model portfolio and now they are taken equally  across  all the assets  within her portfolio.
background
Mrs D was advised  by her financial adviser  to take out a pension plan with Aviva in 2014.
When the plan was started  her adviser  set up the funds to be invested  into a model portfolio.
Within the portfolio the adviser allocated  some of the funds to a cash fund.  This allowed  charges to be 
taken from that fund without the requirement to sell any of the various investments within her portfolio.
In January 2018 Aviva  changed its platform and the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) regarding how the 
charges would be taken.
The changes meant that the cash account within  the portfolio was now treated  as an asset, and as a 
result if there were  no funds  held within  a cash account outside of the portfolio  then the charges would 
be taken equally  across all investments within the portfolio as set out in the new T&Cs.
In March 2018, Mrs D noticed this change in the way the charges were being taken  from her plan and 
raised a complaint with Aviva.
Aviva initially said it had made  an error and incorrectly  moved  funds from the cash  account  to the 
model portfolio cash account.  It confirmed it would  reconstruct the portfolio  and pay Mrs D £150 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
As Aviva didnt rectify its error Mrs D referred her complaint to this service in August 2018.
Aviva then issued a final response letter to Mrs D confirming its previous stance was incorrect.  It 
confirmed Mrs Ds plan had been migrated  over to the new platform and if she wished for the charges  
to be taken out of the cash fund, she would  need to top up her cash  account  held outside of the 
investment model portfolio. Aviva paid Mrs D a further £150 for the trouble  and upset  caused and 
confirmed no loss calculation was required. 
One of our adjudicators  then looked into the matter and said the complaint should  be upheld. He said 
there was no evidence that Aviva  had made Mrs D aware  of the changes  and he thought  this was 
unfair. He said that Mrs D had continued to have her funds disinvested to pay for the charges and, as 
a result, she may have  lost some investment growth. 
Aviva told the adjudicator that it notified Mrs Ds adviser  of the changes  being  made  to the way in 
which Mrs Ds plan would  be charged. However,  it couldnt provide  any evidence to suggest  they had 
advised Mrs Ds adviser directly.
The adjudicators view was that, with such a significant change  to Mrs Ds plan, Aviva should have 
ensured it notified her directly. However Aviva didnt  do that. He said that it should carry  out a loss 
assessment to see if there was any investment  growth lost from the charges  being  taken from the 
model portfolio and re-invest any losses into the investments the charges  were  originally taken from.  
But, going forward, the adjudicator said Mrs D would need to discuss with her adviser  how she 
wanted the charges to be taken. Either from all her investments, as was currently being  carried out by 
Aviva, or if she preferred  to top up cash account held outside her investment portfolio  to allow for the 
charges to be taken from there.
Ref: DRN26358858Aviva agreed  to carry out the loss calculation.  However,  Mrs D did not agree  with the redress set out 
by the adjudicator. She said she didnt  think Aviva had updated its T&Cs  and therefore it should  allow 
her to continue paying for the charges in the way she always had done,  which meant the charges  
would be taken from the cash  account  held within the investment  portfolio.
The adjudicator said that Avivas revised T&Cs allowed  it to amend the way in which the charges 
were taken from an investment on the platform  and he thought this new way was fair and reasonable.
Mrs D didnt agree and so as no resolution could be found the case  has been passed to me for review 
and a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I find Im in agreement  with the adjudicator and 
for broadly  the same  reasons, although Ive set out a slightly different method of redress.
Should Aviva have taken the charges across the whole  portfolio?
In January 2018 Aviva  changed the platform it was using for Mrs Ds pension plan. It also changed 
the T&Cs that applied at that time  as it was entitled to do according to the T&Cs which were in 
place when Mrs D took out her plan in 2014, which said: 
26. Changes  to Terms and Conditions
We may change these  Terms and Conditions  for any of the following reasons:
 to respond, in a proportionate manner, to changes in the way we administer investments/products of 
this type.
So I think Aviva acted  reasonably  by applying the new T&Cs which  explained  the change in how the 
charges would be taken. The main change was the reclassification of cash  as an asset which  meant 
that Avivas platform charge would be taken equally from all the assets within  the model  portfolio   
including any cash. 
Avivas charge is defined in the T&Cs as being  deducted on a monthly  basis and is calculated on a 
daily basis as a percentage  of the average Pension Portfolio value on each day including any new 
money allocated but not yet cleared in Your Cash Account (We reserve the right to vary this). The 
charge is calculated  based  on the value of all the assets  in Your Pension Portfolio, except 
Commercial Property.
And the T&Cs explained how this charge would be collected after migration  to a new platform. We 
will take Aviva,  Adviser, DIM and Aviva Commercial Property  (see section 19 entitled Charges) 
charges from Your Cash Account. We will always  take these  charges from Your  Cash Account.  This 
does not include  any Fund manager charges which may be payable in addition.  Where there is 
insufficient cash  in Your Cash Account,  we will automatically disinvest  sufficient funds to enable these  
charges to be paid.
So I think it was clear  that a separate cash account  outside of the model  portfolio   would be 
required to pay the charges. If that wasnt set up (or contained  insufficient cash)  then the charges  
would be taken from disinvested funds within  the model portfolio instead. So I think  Aviva did explain 
how things would work  after its change of platform.  
But the T&Cs also stated  that If we consider any changes to these Terms  and Conditions  to be to 
your advantage or necessary to meet regulatory requirements we may make the change immediately 
and tell you at a later date.  
Ref: DRN26358859We will tell you in writing of any change we consider is to your disadvantage (other than any change 
necessary to meet regulatory requirements) at least 60 days before  the change  becomes  effective,  
unless it is not possible for us to do this, in which  case we will give you as much notice as we can.
Aviva has accepted that it didnt make Mrs D aware  of the change  it had made  to the collection  of 
charges. It acknowledged this in its letter of May 2018 to Mrs D, in which it confirmed I apologise  that 
we didn't notify you of the change to how the cash account would work following  our migration  to the 
new Platform,  and also for the incorrect information provided in my last letter. Aviva has said that this 
is an adviser-led product  and all advisers were given  training on the new platform within its Aviva for 
advisers service . But I think that Aviva should have done more  here as it would seem unfair to rely 
on generic, online information given  to all advisers. I think Aviva should  have notified Mrs D (or her 
adviser) in writing  as it said it would  in its T&Cs.
Its difficult to know what Mrs D would  have  done  differently if shed been made aware of the changes  
to the way charges  would be collected. But what is clear is that she would have been able to consider  
various options  which  would have included  setting up a cash  account  outside of her model portfolio  
from which Aviva could  have taken any outstanding charges without the need to disinvest the funds  
within the portfolio. 
I think,  on balance, she would have done that because it represented the closet arrangement to her 
previous set up where cash was used to pay the charges without her funds being  disinvested. Mrs D 
has said that she wants  the pre changes method of taking charges from her cash  account  to be used 
 which is unfortunately no longer available.  But I think she would have accepted the opportunity  to 
set up an account outside of the portfolio if it had been properly explained. 
So I think Aviva should compensate Mrs D for any investment growth she lost on the funds that have 
been disinvested since the change  of platforms. Ill set out how this redress should  be calculated 
below, but I note Aviva  has already offered  to complete a loss assessment following the adjudicators 
assessment. 
I ought to confirm that, in my view, Avivas  letter of 22 November 2018  did finally make 
Mrs D aware of how the changes would work and what her alternatives would  be.  So for the sake  of 
clarity I think any liability arising from Avivas loss assessment should  cease at the point two weeks 
after the date of that letter. Thats because  I consider  that Mrs D ought to have decided which  of the 
new methods  to adopt within  two weeks of being  properly advised of the changes. 
What should happen going  forward?
As Aviva has said it didnt make Mrs D aware of the changes it brought in when it moved  to a new 
platform, I have gone on to consider what should happen  going  forward.  Mrs D wants to be able to 
pay her plan charges from the cash account thats always been in place because she doesnt believe 
the new T&Cs clearly explained the change Aviva made. 
But I think the new T&Cs do make it clear that Aviva is now going  to take its charges from either a 
separate cash account (outside the portfolio) or equally  across all the assets within the portfolio 
including any cash held. Mrs D has now, in my opinion,  been made aware of the new charging 
process. 
So I think Mrs D and her adviser should decide how they wish to act going  forward and ensure  they 
make Aviva aware of their preference. Its up to Mrs D to decide what method she would prefer to 
use, from the options available to her. Its not possible  for her to continue  with her previous 
arrangement as Aviva  no longer offers  that option and I think  its now made  her aware of that going  
forward.
Distress and inconvenience caused
Ref: DRN263588510I can see Aviva  has offered Mrs D £350 in total for the distress  and inconvenience  its caused here. 
And Ive thought  about the impact this has had. Aviva first agreed to reapply the units that had been 
deducted from the investments  within the portfolio thereby raising  Mrs D hopes the complaint had 
been resolved. But it didnt complete a loss calculation meaning Mrs D had to bring her complaint to 
us, and subsequently she was told by Aviva that it didnt  think it had made  a mistake and wouldnt be 
making any corrections.  This would  have  caused  Mrs D even more concern following the first 
response.
But, I think the offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances considering the impact Avivas  
actions have  had. Its broadly in line with what I would have  recommended had Aviva not already 
made that offer, so Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything further with regards to any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
fair compensation
My aim now is that Mrs D should be put as closely as possible into the position she would probably 
now be in had she had been  made aware of the changes  to how her pension  charges would be taken.
I take the view that Mrs D would  have  probably  made arrangements to set up a separate  cash fund 
outside the portfolio. 
Although its not possible  to say precisely what she would have  done differently,  I am satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mrs D's circumstances  and objectives when she 
invested. 
what should Aviva do?
To compensate Mrs D fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs D's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  
If the actual  value is greater than the fair value , no compensation is payable.
Aviva should add interest as set out below. 
If there  is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mrs D's pension plan to increase  its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.  
If Aviva is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs D's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs D's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs D would  have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN263588511 Aviva has already  offered to pay Mrs D £350 for the disruption caused  to her retirement 
planning. I think  thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so it should  pay this 
amount if it hasnt already been  paid.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva  deducts  income tax from the interest  it 
should tell Mrs D how much has been taken off. 
Aviva should give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Aviva 
pension still existsAviva  pension 
based on the 
way of taking 
charges from a 
new cash 
account set up 
outside of the 
model portfolioDate that 
Aviva  changed 
to new 
platform and 
disinvested 
across  all 
funds.Two weeks 
after Aviva 
confirmed the 
change to Mrs 
D in its letter of 
22 November 
2018.Any loss 
confirmed  at the 
end date needs 
to be brought up 
to date using the 
returns from Mrs 
Ds actual model 
portfolio.
actual value
This means  the actual  current value of the pension. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had the charges  not been taken 
equally from the funds within the portfolio.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Aviva totals all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
my final decision 
I intend  to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. My provisional  decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
should pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2635885