K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says her Experian Limited credit file contains adverse information relating  to another 
person, which  she has asked Experian to remove. She complains that it has not done so. 
She also complains about its poor customer service in dealing  with this matter.  She wants  
Experian to remove  the incorrect information  from her credit file, and to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by its mistake.
background
Mrs M said:
She had no knowledge of the other person,  whose information has been  linked to her 
details
The linked information was adverse, and was affecting her ability to obtain credit, 
which in turn was causing her serious distress and inconvenience
Experian took too long to respond to her complaint  but, when it did in May 2018, it 
upheld her complaint  
Experian also accepted that it had taken too long to respond,  for which  it paid her 
compensation of £200
Three months later, when the linked information  had still not be removed, she 
referred her complaint  to us
Experian told us that it had reviewed  Mrs Ms circumstances, and had concluded that her 
complaint should  not have been  upheld. Its revised  position was that there  were  
considerable overlaps between Mrs M and the person whose adverse information had been 
linked to her:
Same family names and dates  of birth
Very similar given names (one a shortened version of the other)
Same email  address
The other person  had been associated in its records with two postal  addresses,  the 
second of which  was Mrs Ms current postal address
Electoral register information  that did not show Mrs M and the other person living at 
different postal addresses at the same  time
Experian said it was unable to find definitive  evidence showing that the adverse information 
associated with the other person did not belong to Mrs M. It also provided to us evidence  of 
how the link between Mrs M and the other person had been made (based on information 
supplied to it in 2011 by a financial services organisation).
But Experian  added that it would review  this matter again, if Mrs M provided official 
identification documents (passport, driving licence,  birth certificate, etc.) showing that she 
had never  been  known  by the other persons given name.
Mrs M told us that, in parallel with her complaint to Experian, she had made the same 
complaint to another credit  reference  agency. She provided evidence showing that the 
parallel complaint had been upheld, and that the agency concerned had restored her credit 
file to its correct state. 
Ref: DRN20937272Mrs M also provided identification documents to us as follows:
A copy of her birth certificate, showing her maiden family name and confirming her 
given name (which was not the same  as the other persons given name)
A copy of her 1995 marriage certificate, showing her married  family name (which was 
the same  as the other  persons family name) and confirming  her given name
A copy of her current passport, confirming her given name and married family name
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She noted that Experians 
records showed that Mrs M and the other  person shared  the same  email  address, which  she 
could not explain. But she considered the identification documents were of sufficient weight 
to demonstrate the difference between Mrs Ms given name and that of the other person. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that, in order to resolve the complaint, Experian should:
Remove the adverse information, linked  to the other  person,  from Mrs Ms credit file
Pay further compensation  of £100 to Mr M, for the additional  distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused her since May 2018
Experian disagreed with our adjudicator. It accepted  the validity of Mrs Ms identification 
documents. But it said these documents did not disprove that Mrs M lived at the other 
persons postal address, where the adverse information (which Mrs M wanted to have 
removed from her credit file) had been registered. 
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
On the one hand:
Mrs M has told us that she has no knowledge of the other person
Mrs M has demonstrated  that, although she and the other person have the same 
date of birth, the other persons  given  and family  names (as recorded by Experian) 
are both not the same as her own given and (maiden) family name
Mrs M has also told us that she married in 1995,  that she has lived at her current 
address since 2006, and that she has never lived at the other persons first address 
(as recorded by Experian)
Electoral register records (provided to us by Experian) show Mrs M living at her 
current address since 2013
The adverse  information that Mrs M wants to have removed was registered in 2015 
and 2016, at an address linked to the other  person
Mrs M has successfully made the same  complaint to another  credit reference agency
Ref: DRN20937273On the other hand:
Experians records show the same  email address for Mrs M and the other person
Mrs M and the other person have  very similar  given  names  (one a shortened version 
of the other)
Experians second recorded postal address for the other person is Mrs Ms current  
postal address (based on information it obtained  in 2011)
Electoral register records (provided to us by Experian) show the other person living at 
her first address between 2005 and 2011  but Experian is unable  to find any period 
of time where electoral  registers  have concurrent records  at different addresses of 
Mrs M and the other person (which  might more positively indicate that Mrs M never 
lived at the other persons first address)
In effect, Experian  feels it and Mrs M are unable to demonstrate either that she is not the 
other person, or that she did not live in 2011 at the address  where adverse information was 
subsequently recorded. In these  circumstances, Experian argues it is unable to remove  the 
link between  Mrs Ms credit file and this adverse information.
At our request, Mrs M has provided  further  evidence which  does not confirm, but does 
suggest, that she has been  living her current address since  2006.  (While,  as noted above,  
evidence from electoral records shows the other person living at a different address between  
2005 and 2011.) 
I think Mrs Ms further evidence adds to the weight of evidence  of separate  identity  noted  by 
our adjudicator. I note as well Mrs Ms identical and successful  complaint to another  credit  
reference agency.
And so, on the balance  of probabilities, I find that Experian has mistakenly  recorded  on 
Mrs Ms credit file adverse  information  pertaining to someone else.
I also think it is regrettable that Experian:
Initially upheld Mrs Ms complaint and then changed its mind
Then asked for evidence of separate identity based on which  it would be willing  to 
review its change  of mind
And then (in response to our adjudicators  recommendations) raised a further issue  
relating to the address  at which, and dates when, the adverse information was 
recorded
And so I find I share our adjudicators view that Mrs M should receive  additional 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Experian  Limited:
1.To remove  the adverse information from Mrs Ms credit  file
2.To pay additional compensation of £100 directly to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN20937274Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2093727