K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the refurbishment charges was asked to pay by PSA Finance UK 
Limited (PSA) when she handed  her lease car back  to them.
 
background
Mrs S took receipt of a new car in July 2015.  She financed the deal through a three year hire 
purchase agreement  with PSA. The agreement said that the car needed  to be returned  in a 
good condition.  But Mrs S was upset when  PSA said it hadnt been  and asked her to pay for 
refurbishment to four areas to bring the car back to the expected standard  before it was sold 
on.
PSA said there was damage to three  of the alloys and there was an unacceptable paint run 
on the bumper.  They said theyd reminded Mrs S of the condition the car needed to be in 
when they wrote to her before  the handover and they therefore thought theyd  given her 
enough time to resolve any issues. But they didnt  think the charges  were wrong.
Mrs S therefore referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his 
opinion. He noted that the relevant industry  guidelines, for establishing fair wear  and tear on 
returned vehicles,  were provided  by the British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  
(BVRLA). He reviewed  the images that were taken  during the inspection and he noted there 
was damage to each  of the alloy wheels that he thought was outside of the acceptable 
standard and therefore chargeable. But he couldnt see any damage to the bumper and he 
therefore suggested that PSA waive this £75 charge. 
Mrs S was still dissatisfied. She thought  the damage  to the alloys  was caused by corrosion 
and was therefore a manufacturing  default and she therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PSA is responsible  
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
Ref: DRN27559802Mrs S suggests that the damage to the alloy wheels was caused by a manufacturing  default  
but I dont think  the pictures in the third party inspection report, show  corrosion. I think  the 
damage looks more  like the sort of damage we often see in these pictures  which is caused 
by scuffing and scrapes.  I cant  see any rust marks or pitting and I therefore  think  the 
damage is more likely to have been  caused  by scuffing than by any manufacturing  fault. And 
as Mrs S hasnt provided any additional  evidence to back up her assertion, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to suggest otherwise.
is the damage evidenced and chargeable?
The terms of Mrs Ss contract say that the car should be returned in a good condition  and 
what represents a good condition is expanded upon  in section 18 of the contract. These 
requirements are in line with the guidance  provided  by the BVRLA  and its to that standard  
that the third party inspector has reviewed the cars condition.
The standard says that there  should be no damage  to the wheel spokes and hub and I can 
see that, in each case, there has been.  So I think  the refurbishment  to the alloy wheels is 
chargeable. I think the costs that have  been  identified are also reasonable given the extent 
of the damage.
But I can see no evidence of damage to the bumper and I agree with the adjudicator that this 
charge should  be waived.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to remove the £75 for refurbishment  of the bumper  from the refurbishment  bill.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2755980