K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss A bought  the policy  in 1999  at the same time as taking  out a store card.
 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint because:
 I think FICL made Miss A aware that she had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Miss As store card application.  On this form 
there was a section  with the heading Account  Cover  (Only sign this box if you require 
Account Cover). 
Underneath this heading  theres an option  for PPI; Yes, I would like to protect my 
Account with Account Cover (subject  to eligibility).  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly  premium  until further  notice. Miss A has signed separately in this 
section to take PPI and shes also signed  the overall application. So I think this 
indicates what she wanted. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But FICL did still have  to give Miss A good enough information about the PPI so 
that she could  decide if she wanted to take the PPI. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Miss A doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. 
Ref: DRN20608042Miss A has told us that she had no other means  of making her repayments if she was 
made unemployed or unable  to work  aside  from statutory  sick pay. 
So I still think that she could have found  the PPI useful to help protect  her financial 
position if she did experience an unexpected change in circumstances such  as being 
made unemployed or becoming unwell and being unable  to work. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Miss As comments, but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2060804