K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in April 1997  
alongside a credit card. Mrs W says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds),  then trading as Lloyds TSB,  
mis-sold her the PPI. She says she didnt need  to have  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs W didnt have  to take out the PPI. But from what Ive 
seen it looks like she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this. 
Mrs W says she cant  remember how she bought  the card.  Lloyds accepts that it made  a 
recommendation that she should buy the cover and that the sale most likely happened  at a 
meeting in a branch. Its unfortunate that we dont have a copy of the actual application  form 
 which  isnt surprising  after so much time. However, I think  she would have had the 
opportunity to discuss taking PPI with a Lloyds representative at the time and then to review 
the application form before she signed  it. And there  would have been a separate  section on 
the form where she could  sign to show  she wanted to buy PPI. So I think  on balance Mrs W 
had enough opportunity to think about  whether she wanted PPI to go with her new card and 
decided she did. 
Ive looked at the sale on the basis that Lloyds  needed to make sure the card was suitable 
for her and also that it gave her enough  information so that she could  make  an informed 
choice about whether  she wanted to take it. I think she received some  information about the 
policy at the time of the sale and would  also have been given the full policy  text either  at the 
meeting or by post soon  afterwards. 
But its still possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  Given that she chose to take it out, though, it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong.  
I say this having taken into account  that Mrs W told us she would have received some sick 
pay from her employer  if she couldnt  work due to accident or sickness. But the PPI would  
pay out in addition those benefits, for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness, or if she lost her job. It also meant she wouldnt have to rely on other sources of 
funding. Mrs W also told us that she could have relied on her partner and family to help. 
Having the offer of support is always a good thing  but individual  financial circumstances can 
easily be subject to a sudden, unpredictable  change. 
On the question of cost the PPI also looks like it was affordable  and Mrs W hasnt  made us 
aware of any particular issues with being  able to pay for it.
Ref: DRN20981902Overall, therefore, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs W off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive seen that Mrs W has already been paid back some of the cost of the PPI. So based  on  
my findings  I dont think Lloyds needs  to do anything more. 
I realise that Mrs W will find this outcome disappointing but I would like to assure her that I 
reached my finding having carefully  considered all the evidence and information she has 
provided. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2098190