K821x#15complaint
Mr Q says Emergency Cash Limited,  (trading  as Wizzcash), irresponsibly lent to him. He 
says that at the time of the loans he had many  other  payday loans, multiple credit cards over 
the limit and serious tax arrears. He says that all this would have been easy to identify from 
a simple financial check
background
The background to this case, together with my provisional findings, is set out in my 
provisional decision, dated 30 June  2020,  an extract of which  is attached to this final 
decision.
Wizzcash did not respond  to my provisional  decision. But Mr Q said that I should have 
upheld his complaint in respect of his second loan, as well as the third. He felt that his 
having taken a second loan two months after the first should have shown as a warning  sign. 
He said: no one takes out payday loans  within  2 months of each other  who isnt in serious  
financial difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I know that it will come as a disappointment to Mr Q, but I dont find anything  in Mr Qs 
further comments that leads me to reach a different conclusion from that in my provisional 
decision.
Mr Q has told us that his financial circumstances were difficult. But I cant  conclude  that 
Wizzcash should  automatically have thought that that was the case when he applied for his 
second loan. I say this, particularly  bearing in mind  both what  he told Wizzcash  about his 
income and expenses at the time,  and that I havent seen any information that it had that 
might have indicated  that Mr Q had had difficulty  paying off the first loan   
I dont know why Wizzcash turned down some of Mr Qs other applications before agreeing 
to lend to him for a second time.  But, as I noted in my provisional decision,  it was for half the 
amount of his first loan. And it is possible that there were other aspects about the application  
that overrode Wizzcashs  earlier  misgivings.  And I cant  find anything  in Mr Qs further  
comments that leads  me to a conclusion that the checks  Wizzcash  carried  out werent 
proportionate at that stage.
So, nothing Mr Q has now told us changes my view that Wizzcash did not irresponsibly give 
him loan two or otherwise  changes my earlier findings and provisional decision.
It seems  that Mr Q is in arrears with his third loan, so I cant say that it is unreasonable  for 
Wizzcash to continue  to record it as such. But Mr Q will note that, once it has been paid off, 
Im asking Wizzcash to remove all the adverse information relating to it from his credit report.
Ref: DRN24484472Accordingly, I find only that Wizzcash should  not have given Mr Q loan three.  And it should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Wizzcash needs to do
Wizzcash should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on loan 
three and treat any repayments made by Mr Q as though they had been repayments  
of the principal on this loan.  
If this results in Mr Q having made overpayments then Wizzcash should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled;
However if there is still an outstanding capital balance then Wizzcash  should try to 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr Q. 
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Qs credit file, once  repaid;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Wizzcash  to take off tax from this interest. Wizzcash 
must give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, my decision is to uphold  
Mr Qs complaint in respect of the third loan. And I require Emergency Cash  Limited to pay 
Mr Q compensation and amend his credit file as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN24484473Extract  of provisional decision dated 30 June 2020
background
This complaint is about  three  payday loans  Wizzcash provided to Mr Q over an eight month period in 
2017 and 2018. Mr Qs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 02/08/2017 31/10/2017 3 £800.00 £400.99
2 08/11/2017 08/01/2018 3 £400.00 £191.70
3 03/04/2018 Outstanding 3 £500.00 £247.99
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint.  His opinion was that, given Mr Qs loan amounts, 
what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time, and his history with the Wizzcash,  he didnt 
think it would have been proportionate  to ask Mr Q for the amount of information  needed  which might 
have shown that the lending  was unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator also felt that there wasnt  anything  in the information  Mr Q provided. Or the 
information of which Wizzcash should have been aware, which meant it would have been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr Q had told it. 
Finally, our adjudicator  didnt think that the number  of loans Mr Q had taken  out, the amounts they 
were for, or the period  of time over which he borrowed, meant  that his loan history, on its own,  should  
have shown Wizzcash Mr Q might have been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr Q disagreed with the adjudicators view.  He asked us to take into account  the other 17 payday 
loans he had at the same  time and the amount of his debt. Both of which he says show up on a credit 
check. Because Mr Q didnt  agree with our adjudicator  the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr Q could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Wizzcash  should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN24484474There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  However, I dont think that this applies  in this case  
in view of the number of loans, their amounts and the length  of the borrowing relationship.  
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Wizzcash was required  to establish whether Mr 
Q could  sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold  Mr Qs complaint in respect  of his third loan. Let me explain  why.
Wizzcash has told us that before agreeing to each loan it asked Mr Q for details of his income and 
expenses, including credit  expenses. It also carried out some  credit checks.  Im satisfied that these 
checks were proportionate in respect  of the first loan. 
Wizzcash then declined some loan applications from Mr Q before making  the second  loan. But loan 
two was for only half the amount of loan one and was still very early in the lending relationship with Mr 
Q. So, even though it appears that Wizzcash  had some  misgivings about Mr Qs financial 
circumstances after giving him the first loan, given it declined several loans before agreeing his 
second, Im provisionally satisfied that the checks it did for the second were proportionate.
However, by the time of the application for a third loan,  Wizzcash had declined  some further 
applications from Mr Q. And I think that, having had more misgivings, it would have been  
proportionate by that point for it to have tried to get a full picture of what was happening with Mr Qs 
finances. I say this particularly because Mr Qs declared income was at a relatively reasonable level 
and hes said he was living with his parents.  So it would  have been fair and reasonable for Wizzcash  
to query why he needed  to take out high cost loans. Mr Q had also said he was self-employed, so his 
income might have been quite variable.  
Ive considered what I know about Mr Qs circumstances.  Im satisfied that, had Wizzcash  looked into 
the detail of these, amongst  other matters, it would have seen that Mr Q had at least three other 
short-term loans at the time of the third application. I provisionally conclude that this shows its likely 
Mr Q was having trouble managing his money and there was a risk he wouldnt be able to repay  
further credit in a sustainable manner.  And, as a responsible lender,  Wizzcash  wouldnt have given Mr 
Q this further  loan.
  
So Im provisionally upholding the complaint about loan 3 and proposing  to tell Wizzcash to put things 
right.
putting things  right  what Wizzcash  needs to do
Wizzcash should remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan three and 
treat any repayments made by Mr Q as though  they had been repayments of the principal on 
this loan. 
Ref: DRN24484475If this results in Mr Q having made overpayments then Wizzcash should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled;
However if there is still an outstanding capital balance  then Wizzcash  should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr Q. 
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Qs credit file, once repaid;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Wizzcash  to take off tax from this interest. Wizzcash must give Mr 
Q a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further information I receive,  as above,  Im 
provisionally partially  upholding Mr Qs complaint.  And Im proposing to order Emergency Cash 
Limited to pay Mr Q compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN2448447