K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs V says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs V took out with a store card in May 2001. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs V disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mrs V mainly  said that she took out the store card to get discounts on purchases and PPI 
wasnt mentioned  or discussed. Mrs V also told us she had other means she could rely on to 
cover her store card monthly repayments  and said she wouldnt have chosen  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs V to remember  exactly what  was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  this complaint just based on the way Mrs V told us she was sold PPI. I have 
to look at everything and decide what I think is most  likely.
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Vs completed store card application. Mrs V has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. It also says here: Only sign this box if you require Account Cover . 
So, although  I dont know what (if anything) was said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs V to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
And Mrs V signed the completed application.  So it seems to me that she must  have  agreed  
with the information on the form at the time  even  if, understandably,  she has forgotten this 
now. On balance, I find that Mrs V was aware  the policy was an option she could take out 
with her store card and she chose to have it.
FICL shouldve given Mrs V enough clear information so she could  decide if the policy was 
right for her. Its possible some information FICL  gave Mrs V about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. So I need to consider if Mrs V wouldve  acted differently, and not 
bought the policy, if clearer information  had been provided. 
Ref: DRN26769562Ive taken into account that Mrs Vs employer paid 6 months full sick pay  and beyond that 
it continued to pay subject to a health  assessment. But the policy  couldve paid a benefit for 
as long as Mrs V was off work sick. And it also covered Mrs V if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event  of a successful claim, the policy couldve 
cleared her card balance  if Mrs V wasnt able to go back to work. So even taking into 
account her good  sick pay benefits  through work,  it looks  like the policy  couldve been useful 
to her.
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI. And although she mentioned having some cash savings, it looks like these 
were intended  for another purpose. And in any event, I dont know if Mrs V wouldve always  
had savings to rely on. 
It doesnt look as if Mrs V was affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  So, 
I dont think more information about  what the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it 
out. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs V clear enough information  about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs V chose to take out the policy when she didnt have  to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time, and been  happy to pay to have it, even if shes  forgotten this now. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs V, I think it unlikely she wouldve  made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
Mrs V has also mentioned shes unhappy  about what  happened when she wanted to cancel 
the PPI. But I am just dealing here with her mis-selling complaint, so this information  doesnt 
change my decision. Mrs V can make  a separate complaint about that and it will be open to 
her afterwards refer the matter to us if it isn't resolved to her satisfaction.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2676956