K820x#14complaint
Mrs Q complains, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr Q, about what  National Savings  and 
Investments (NS&I)  says that the estate must do to access the premium bonds her late 
husband held.  
background
Mrs Q told us that her husband  sadly died in early 2017. She said that they had been  
resident overseas for many years, and both held premium bonds in their own names.  She 
asked NS&I about how she could get access to her late husbands bonds, and it said that 
because he held over £5,000 in bonds,  his will would either have to go through probate  in 
the country in which they lived and be re-sealed in the UK, or it would  have to go through 
probate in the UK. 
Mrs Q asked where this information was, and was told it was in the key features booklet that 
NS&I produces.  She says that NS&I has since accepted thats  not true. 
Mrs Q said she was now having to employ a solicitor in the UK to handle  probate  on her 
behalf, because  she couldnt handle it herself  from a distance. 
Mrs Q said that the information about how to access bonds after the holders death was only 
in the form that is completed after death. So she said that she and her husband hadnt been 
able to make  an informed decision about  whether to hold over £5,000 in bonds. She thought 
this information  shouldve been  in the key features booklet. 
NS&I wrote to Mrs Q, and asked her for a grant of probate. It said that she could  either 
provide the sealed grant, or a certified copy. It sent her a leaflet telling her how to claim the 
money held in bonds.
NS&I then wrote again. It said that it had considered her case  carefully. It said that it was 
asking for a grant of probate for her late husbands estate because the assets of his estate 
were governed by the law of their location. And for these bonds, that was the UK. It also said 
that it always asks for a grant of probate for anyone who sends in a death  claim application  
from overseas and the amount is over £5,000. Thats just because NS&I doesnt  understand 
the law applicable to the estate in different countries well enough to be able to tell whether 
the estate is being treated the way it should  be. 
NS&I said it did publish information  about its requirements for a grant  of representation, but 
they were intended  for the use of UK residents. It has paid Mrs Q £30 to say sorry for 
incorrect information it had given about its terms and conditions. 
Mrs Q said she had now got a grant  of probate. That had cost about  £1,700.  She was 
unhappy as she still felt that wasnt required.  And if it was, then she thought that was 
important enough  to be in the key features booklet.  She said that she couldnt be the only 
one in this situation. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he thought  it was reasonable for 
NS&I to ask for a grant  of probate. He said that the grant is used to verify  that the executor 
(in this case  Mrs Q) had a right to the funds in the estate. Our adjudicator also said that he 
wouldnt expect NS&I  to highlight this when bonds  were purchased because it wouldnt have 
been relevant  at that time.  NS&I has apologised for saying  that this information was in the 
Ref: DRN28386682key features booklet,  and it has paid Mrs Q £30 to say sorry for that. Our adjudicator said 
that NS&I had made a reasonable attempt to make  up for the error, so he wouldnt ask it to 
do any more. 
Our adjudicator said that he appreciated that dealing with a requirement  for probate  from 
overseas wouldve been difficult and expensive  for Mrs Q. But he didnt think it was wrong 
for NS&I to insist on that before it released the bonds.  
Mrs Q didnt agree with that. She still thought that the key features booklet shouldve  
mentioned this. She said that would be a simple change for NS&I to make, and it would give 
a bondholder information and a choice. 
Mrs Q wanted an ombudsman to consider  her case,  so it was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Like our adjudicator, I think that it was reasonable for NS&I  to say that Mrs Q had to get a 
grant of probate in this case. And I think that for broadly the same reasons that our 
adjudicator set out. NS&I has accepted that it isnt an expert in the law of the area where  
Mr Q died, and which will govern the distribution of his estate. But it holds UK assets, and it 
seems to me to be reasonable  for it to say that it needs to be satisfied, in line with UK law, 
that its giving any money  held for an estate to the right person. 
I appreciate that Mrs Q was given  some incorrect advice about where this information  could  
be found. And I realise that this has inconvenienced  Mrs Q, but I agree with our adjudicator  
that the payment of £30 that NS&I made provides a reasonable attempt to make  up for this 
mistake. 
Mrs Q has since  obtained a grant of probate and NS&I  has released the money. But she 
now wants NS&I to include a statement that such a grant may be needed in its key features 
booklet. 
Its not for our service to tell NS&I  what it puts in documentation it issues  to all of its 
customers. I dont have the power to do that. All I can do is look at the complaint that Mrs Q 
has made, and decide  whether NS&I has behaved fairly and reasonably towards her. Ive 
done that.
I do think that, whenever a business  puts together a key features document,  it faces a 
difficult decision on how much detail to include.  Too much, and its off-putting  for a reader. 
Too little, and the business risks omitting  something  that customers might find important. I 
think that documents like this inevitably  represent  a compromise. But although I cant ask 
NS&I to change  the content of this document, Mrs Q might like to know that NS&I will 
receive a copy of my decision too. And it can consider whether this needs  to be included  in 
the key features document  going forward. 
I know that Mrs Q, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr Q, will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I hope Ive explained  why I dont  think that her complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN28386683my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr Q, to accept or reject  my decision before 24 February 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2838668