K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2010. Mr C says Glasgow  Credit Union Ltd mis-sold  him the PPI. 
The policy covered Mr C for accident and sickness  but didnt include unemployment  cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says that he did not ask for PPI, and was led to believe that not taking PPI would 
jeopardise his chances of being approved for getting a loan. I cant be certain what  was 
said at the time, and Mr C hasnt  said much about why he was made  to feel this way. So 
I have to base  my decision on the information  I do have. 
GCU have provided  a copy of the call script  that was in use at the time it sold the loan 
and PPI to Mr C  this suggests that the optional nature of the policy wouldve been 
made clear  and while I cant  be certain  how closely it was followed, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that GCU did anything  different  to its usual process with Mr C.
GCU has also provided a copy of Mr Cs loan application  I can see on this that the PPI 
is clearly labelled  as Optional Insurance   it also sets out the separate monthly cost of 
the policy. Theres nothing on the paperwork that suggests that PPI is compulsory   or 
that an application would be looked  on more favourably by taking the cover.  There are 
also two choices for the PPI, to take the policy or to decline it, and both are equally 
prominent. The PPI has been selected with a cross, and Mr C has signed the application 
agreeing to the information on it.
So taking everything in to account,  I think GCU made it clear that Mr C didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this as it was so long ago.
GCU recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information GCU gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about getting sick pay 
through work  so he didnt need  the PPI  but the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months 
Ref: DRN22535512if Mr C was unable to work due to sickness or an accident, longer than Mr C wouldve 
received full pay for. So I think he could still have found it useful.
Mr C has also said that as PPI has stopped  being sold by GCU, this shows  that he was mis-
sold the policy. He says that if PPI was deemed by GCU to be of benefit to him when it was 
sold, that it should still offer this cover. 
But my role here isnt to comment  on a businesss decision  to stop offering PPI cover  I 
have to decide if I think that PPI was mis-sold to Mr C. And for the reasons set out above,  I 
dont think that the PPI was mis-sold  to Mr C. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on his PPI  and whether GCU treated 
him unfairly.  
GCU has told us that the commission  for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of what  he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how GCU has been  working  this out and based  on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Cs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
GCU treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253551