K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms S complain that Skipton Building  Society (Skipton) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr S and Ms S took out a mortgage in October 2000. During a meeting at the same  time 
they bought a regular  premium MPPI policy in Ms Ss name only. The mortgage and 
insurance ended in 2002.
Mr S and Ms S say the policy sold to them was mis-sold. They say they were told they 
wouldnt get the mortgage had they not taken out MPPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr S and Ms Ss complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Ms Ss case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr S and Ms Ss complaint for the following reasons:
Mr S and Ms S say they were  told they had to take out the insurance in order to 
obtain a mortgage, so I have looked  into this. I can see from the sales documentation 
provided that MPPI is presented  in a separate section in the mortgage application 
form. This section of the form was signed by both Mr S and Ms S. I am persuaded 
after seeing  this form that a discussion was most  likely had around MPPI and they 
chose it by signing the separate section for MPPI. So I am persuaded the optional  
nature of the policy was made  clear  to Mr S and Ms S.
Skipton has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr S and Ms S during the meeting.  
So, as this puts additional responsibilities  on the business, I will proceed that this was 
the case. So as it did recommend the policy,  it had to ensure  during the sale that the 
policy was suitable for Ms Ss needs  (as the sole policy holder).  
After reviewing the information provided  to me, it looks as if the policy  was suitable 
for Ms S based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time of the sale.  Ms S 
says she had 12 months sick pay. But the policy would also have paid in addition  to 
any provisions she would have  had. So the benefit would have been of use during a 
difficult time as she could have used her provisions to pay for other expenses. I think, 
on balance, Ms S would have  found the cover the policy  provided  useful  for any 
extended period  of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other  reason 
such as a significant or limiting  term that would  make the policy  unsuitable for Ms S.
Ref: DRN23075052Skipton has provided some information  about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
but I cannot be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Mr S and Ms S in a clear and 
fair way at the time of sale.  That said, even  if they were disclosed clearly I dont think  
they would  have  done anything  different  and decided  against having the policy  for the 
reasons that I have already given  for the policy being suitable.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mr S and Ms Ss complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2307505