K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Black Horse  Limited (Black Horse) will not refund any 
commission it received from his personal loan payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
premiums for the policies  he took out in 2003 and 2004. 
background
In 2018, Mr H contacted  Black Horse to complain about the level of undisclosed  commission  
(and profit share) received by the Black Horse  on his PPI policies attached  to his loans. 
Black Horse  had refunded  the cost of all of the PPI to Mr H previously. But he asked 
Black Horse  to re-check the PPI he had on all of his loans, add any undisclosed excessive  
commission or profit share it had received, and re-pay it to him. 
Black Horse  said,  as it had already fully upheld his complaint, it did not need to do anything  
further in relation to the amount of commission  and profit share  it received for the PPI policy.  
This was because when  it offered compensation it had refunded  everything  Mr H had paid 
towards PPI, and this included all the commission and profit share  it received.
Mr H said his wife had recently received an additional payment of compensation for her PPI 
policy so he thought that Black Horse should  re-check his compensation payments as well. 
Black Horse  didn't respond to Mr H so he brought his complaint to this service  so that we 
could step in. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Hs complaint and thought Black Horse  had acted fairly  
and didnt need to do anything further.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August  2017,  the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) provided new guidance and rules 
on how businesses should  approach  compensation for PPI when a consumer complains 
about the sale of PPI. It referred to a two-step  approach. 
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
Ref: DRN23768372So here, Im satisfied Mr H made  a complaint about the mis-sale of his PPI policies, which  
Black Horse  investigated and already upheld.
When Black  Horse offered  compensation to Mr H it refunded everything Mr H had paid 
towards PPI, and importantly this included all the commission and profit  share it received. 
And Mr H received these  payments in full and final settlement. 
As Black Horse  had investigated the sales  of the policies and upheld them with Mr H 
receiving full compensation, including all the commission and profit share  it received, 
Black Horse  didnt have to go on and consider  whether the relationship  was unfair.  
Mr H has said his wife recently received a further  payment  of compensation for her PPI. I 
cant comment on this  Mrs H has her own set of circumstances. But I dont agree it set a 
precedent that would require Black Horse to revisit  all of its compensation calculations. 
We have reviewed how Black Horse calculates its PPI compensation and we are satisfied 
with how it goes about that. So I dont  agree  it is necessary for me to ask for it to re-calculate 
all of the compensation payments it has made to Mr H previously.  However,  I do appreciate  
Mr H must have  been frustrated by the lack of response from Black Horse.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Hs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Black  Horse should  do something different and I dont think  there 
is. Black  Horse has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. So I wont be telling 
Black Horse  to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2376837