K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) unfairly closed multiple  accounts  
she held with them. In particular, she says she lost the benefit of her help to buy ISA.
background
Mrs A held various accounts  with Nationwide. One of these  was a current  account she jointly 
held with her husband.  In September 2018  Nationwide closed all of the accounts she and 
her husband  held. This followed its review into high value payments that took place on the 
joint current account.
Mrs A and her husband complained to Nationwide  about its actions. Part of what  they said 
was Mrs As other  accounts shouldnt have been  closed  as a result  of Nationwides  review.  
Mrs As husband said the payments on the joint current account were  made by him and not 
Mrs A. So it wasnt  fair for Mrs As other accounts to be affected.
Nationwide responded saying it had closed Mrs As accounts according to its terms and 
conditions. Unhappy with this response Mrs A and her husband brought their complaint to 
us. They  also brought a complaint about  the closure of their joint account,  which I address in 
a separate final decision.
An investigator at our service decided  not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. They  found:
-Nationwide was able to review Mrs As accounts  as part of fulfilling its regulatory and 
legal obligations.  And the review was done in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions
-Nationwide was able to close Mrs As accounts  in line the terms and conditions  that 
applied to those  accounts.
Mrs A disagreed and has asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs As complaint  for broadly similar reasons to those given by our investigator.  Ill 
explain why.
Mrs A thinks  her accounts shouldnt have  been  closed. Nationwide does have the freedom to 
decide who it wants to contract with, and this includes deciding if it no longer wishes  to 
continue a banking  relationship with an individual. In the circumstances of this complaint I 
think Nationwide exercised this freedom legitimately, so I cannot fairly say its done anything 
wrong.
What Im left to decide is whether  Nationwide closed Mrs As accounts  in line with its account 
terms. Under the accounts  terms Nationwide can close an account immediately under 
certain circumstances.   I see Nationwide sent Mrs A a letter telling her it was closing  her 
Ref: DRN28648532accounts immediately,  which  it needed  to do. And considering Nationwides review  of the 
joint current account usage, I dont think it made an error by applying those terms and 
closing all of Mrs As accounts.
The closure of Mrs As accounts  meant  she could no longer benefit  from them.  And closing 
her help to buy ISA meant no future  government bonus could apply to that account. So I 
dont doubt the disappointment this caused.  But as I think Nationwide  were  able to close her 
accounts, Im not awarding any compensation because of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2864853