K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, didnt provide him with the 
summary of information about his accounts  that he required, in the form he required. He also 
says that Halifax  made an error with one of his accounts. He seeks compensation.
background
Mr H asked Halifax to produce  a statement summarising the accounts he held in the UK to 
comply with the tax requirements of the country in which he lives.  It had to be in a particular, 
bespoke form, to include a summary  of annual interest payments going back 15 years. And 
had to rename  some accounts  in a specific way to align  with the other  countrys regulations. 
Mr H says he contacted  Halifax  many times but communication was slow because they 
insisted on phone calls or surface letters and refused  to provide an email  address.
Mr H tells us Halifax  refused to provide the information in the form he wanted. Instead,  they 
sent documents he didnt need or already had, and too late to meet  the deadline he was 
working towards. Mr H was anxious  hed face a large fine if Halifax  couldnt  produce his 
statement by the end of November 2017.  Fortunately, in the end, he didnt receive a fine.
He also raised a separate issue that, some years earlier, Halifax had incorrectly  opened an 
account in his sole name, rather  than jointly with his mother. He said this had always been,  
or should have  been, a joint account and had been opened in his sole name in error.
Mr H complained to Halifax. But his complaint was confused with a simultaneous complaint  
being brought by his mother, Mrs H, which covered much of the same ground. 
Mr H then complained  to us. He explained that although  he had not suffered any direct  loss, 
he had experienced indirect loss. Because he hadnt  been compensated for all the trouble 
he went to in trying to get the information he required.
In Sept 2019, Halifax suggested Mr Hs complaint  was out of time. We challenged this. 
Because both Mrs H and Mr H had raised  their complaints at the same time. And while 
Halifax had responded to Mrs H they hadnt  responded  to Mr H. So, in October 2019, Halifax 
agreed to set up a new complaint for Mr H.
In December 2019, Halifax sent Mr H their final response  letter. They offered £130 in 
compensation for poor service. And offered to discuss any reasonable expenses  he had 
incurred. They also explained that because they were governed by the UK tax authorities, 
they couldnt just issue or change documents in the way Mr H wanted. And they didnt have 
to refer to an account in a different way to comply  with the tax rules  of another  country. They 
said they couldnt issue a letter confirming his total assets annually since  2006 or provide all 
the information hed asked for. They said theyd provided all the information they could.
Regarding the account held in his sole name, Halifax said they couldnt  find any evidence 
thered been an error in opening this account. Mr H replied saying they were wrong to say 
the account was held in trust by his mother then transferred to him at 18. Because  he was 
over 18 when it was opened in 2005.  He rejected the offer of compensation as inadequate.
In May 2020, our investigator sent out his view. He said Halifax  werent obliged to provide  
information in the specific format Mr H had requested,  even to comply with the tax rules  of 
another country. And as Mr H hadnt incurred any fines, he hadnt lost out financially. On the 
Ref: DRN22730912issue of the account,  he said Halifax had no evidence that it was opened in his sole name in 
error rather than in joint names. He acknowledged the stress the situation had caused. But 
noted Halifax had offered  Mr H compensation of £130, which  he thought was fair and 
reasonable. So, he wasnt going to ask Halifax to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree. And said two documents hed sent proved his case.  He said the letter of 6 
October 2005 addressed to his mother confirmed  the account  would be opened by her as 
trustee, proving the account should  have  been  in their joint names.  He also produced the 
original certificate of investment which showed the account was opened in his sole name.
In June 2020, our investigator said he didnt think the two documents  proved that the 
account should have been  in joint names  or that the bank had made  an error. And he didnt 
agree that Mr H deserved any additional compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mrs H complained to us about  her account and in August 2018,  her complaint was not 
upheld. Some of Mr Hs correspondence contains  multiple account numbers, some  of which 
belong to his mother. But we arent able to look at, or comment  on, any part of Mrs Hs 
complaint again.  Because its already been considered and an associate ombudsman  issued 
our final decision.  So, Im focusing  here on the complaints of Mr H alone. How his requests 
were handled,  and the possible misattribution of the account that was in his sole name.
Providing information
As Mr H had to provide  information to the tax authorities of the country in which he lives in a 
particular way, I can understand  why hed ask Halifax to help. But Im satisfied  Halifax  
provided as much information as they could,  and in the form they were best able. Halifax 
isnt under any contractual or regulatory obligation  to produce such information in the 
particular form Mr H requested. As theyve  said, theyre not accountants. Nor were  they 
obliged to rename  accounts in a specific way to align with the other countrys  tax regulations.  
So, I don't  think  Halifax  was behaving unfairly  or was wrong not to provide the information in 
just the way Mr H wanted. And I wont be asking them to do anything  further here.
The account
Ive looked at the letter of 6 October  2005, which Mr H says proves the account should have 
been in joint names,  not in his sole name  because it was addressed  to his mother as 
trustee. And this means the account  must  have  been intended to be in joint names.  Ive also 
looked at the certificate of investment in Mr Hs name alone when the account was opened 
on 12 October 2005. He says this proves the account was opened in his sole name.
But I dont think the two documents show this account shouldve been in joint names or that 
the bank had made any error. The letter was addressed to Mr Hs mother as trustee. And the 
certificate of investment  named  Mr H. But neither proves the account should have been  set 
up in joint names in the first place. And I dont think the account being opened with Mrs H as 
trustee for Mr H means the account shouldve been a joint one. Because being a trustee  and 
having a joint account are not the same thing, so I dont think  thats of any significance.
Ref: DRN22730913Mr H has also said that he and his mother still have a (different) joint account to support his 
argument. But theres nothing unusual in two people having  a joint account so I dont think 
thats of any significance either.
Mr H has also said, he was already over 18 at the time the account was opened  so Halifaxs  
explanation doesnt make sense. But a trusteeship can be set up on behalf  of people who 
arent minors. And Halifax has said they have no evidence of such  an error either. Or 
evidence of when  the account  was transferred into Mr Hs sole name.  This is because of the 
lack of records and the passage of time.  This isnt unusual for such an old account, but in 
such circumstances I cant properly conclude  Halifax  have done anything wrong here.
Ive also looked  at the correspondence which Mr H provided and note that as early as 
September 2017, his mother maintains the account  was opened in the sole name of her son 
because of Halifaxs mistake. I think the reason this was important at the time was that this 
meant Halifax couldnt provide any information  about an account of which  she wasnt a joint 
holder. But Mrs H thought the money  in that account, and interest  it had accrued, shouldve  
been included  in her declaration to the tax authorities.
But Im struggling to see how there is any loss or impact on Mr H arising from the nature of 
this account and how it was opened in 2005, now. If there was an error, theres no evidence  
of it. And there were no negative consequences  for him anyway, so far as I can see. He 
received no fine and incurred no loss. As he himself said,  his loss was not direct  but indirect 
by way of time and trouble. And as I cant see that there is any evidence  of an error by 
Halifax, Im satisfied theres no reason to award  any compensation here.
Customer service
I accept there was some delay in Halifax responding to Mr Hs enquiries but I note theyve 
offered him £130 in compensation. I'm satisfied that, together with their proposal to cover  his 
reasonable expenses, this is a fair and reasonable offer. And as I don't think  Halifax  has 
made any other mistakes  I can't fairly  order them to offer more.
my final decision
The bank has already made  an offer of £130  to settle Mr Hs complaint and to cover  his 
reasonable expenses. For the above  reasons, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances  
and my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  should  pay Mr H along these 
lines.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2273091