K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
background
Mr K has a group income protection policy with Aviva.  His employer, Z, is the policy  holder 
and he brings his complaint in his capacity  and a group beneficiary.
Mr K was diagnosed with cancer in late 2015.  Thankfully, he received treatment throughout 
2016 and now his condition is more stable.  However, the treatment he endured  left him with 
on-going medical  problems which  has hindered his ability to commit to full time working 
hours. He attempted to return  to work  following his recovery, however, he found  the 
demands of his role too great and so has been off work since  May 2018.
Mr K suffered  with depression, among other physical  conditions, including knee pain, fatigue 
and other  sensitive issues. He submitted a claim to Aviva however  this was declined.  
Aviva said it declined Mr Ks claim initially because there wasnt  enough medical evidence to 
satisfy it that Mr Ks prolonged absence was caused by an illness. Mr K challenged Avivas 
decision after this and only to be met with further  declination for full benefit cover. Aviva,  in 
May 2019, said it would  consider a proportionate  benefit should Mr K be able to work out a 
reduced shift pattern  with Z. But Mr K was unable to reach an agreement with Z. And so 
Aviva maintained its decision not to pay him any benefit under the policy. 
Our investigator said Aviva had acted unfairly  by declining Mr Ks claim.  She acknowledged  
that there  were difficulties  with Mr K and Z, which werent strictly attributed  to Aviva, but felt 
that overall, there was enough  evidence  to persuade her that Mr K was unable to work full 
time due to his incapacity. She said Aviva  should look to pay him 50% of the benefit  cover 
afforded by his policy as he was able to work  half of his 12 hour shift pattern. 
Aviva didnt agree. In summary, it said:
It would  be unfair  for Aviva to pay any proportionate benefit because  its terms say Mr 
K should be following his job role on a part time basis  and that this isnt happening 
because Z wont make reasonable adjustments in these circumstances;
This isnt an issue between Mr K and Aviva. This is a problem between Mr K and Z 
and so should be resolved through another means  before it can consider whether to 
pay Mr K any proportionate benefit and;
Its worried by our investigators recommendation as this could set a precedence with 
other similar cases where it hasnt paid benefit owing  to problems between its policy 
holders and the beneficiaries.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ks 
Ref: DRN24500522complaint. Im not persuaded that Aviva  has taking the right course of action here because I 
believe its declined Mr Ks claim unfairly. Ill explain why.
Having carefully considered Mr Ks medical evidence, Im persuaded that hes unable  to 
continue to meet the demands  of his role under Z. Theres  enough evidence from the 
medical professionals responsible for Mr Ks care and the independent medical  assessors 
which suggest Mr Ks health, although  has made  some improvement, has been left with on-
going medical problems which have significantly impacted  his ability  to do a full days work  
with Z. 
The medical evidence  suggests that Mr K can only work half of his 12 hour shifts,  owing  to 
his physical problems  and on-going medical  needs.  Ive chosen not to list them here 
because some of them  are of a personal nature and both Mr K and Aviva  are fully aware of 
what those are. Further, I take on board  Mr Ks testimony that this has been a particularly  
difficult process overall and so to be sensitive to his needs, I dont think  its necessary to 
expand on this any further for the purposes  my final decision.
Aviva also appears to accept that the medical  evidence is persuasive enough in that Mr K is 
partially incapacitated and therefore unable to complete the full demands of his job. The 
issue here is that in order for Mr K to claim proportionate benefit,  he must be actively 
working to the best of his ability, which is 50% of his regular contracted hours. But Z will not 
allow Mr K to work a reduced shift and so Aviva has declined his proportionate benefit claim 
because hes not actively working and not following his job role on a part time basis. 
The relevant  term Aviva  has relied on says;
2 Proportionate benefit
We will pay a proportionate benefit:
 if before incapacity  the member  was actively at work and
following their job role and;
 if incapacity has lasted for at least five consecutive working
days; and as a result  of illness of injury the member is either;
 following  their job role on a part-time basis; or
 following  any other  occupation
in either  case with a reduction in earnings
It also highlighted the following  term;
You must make whatever reasonable adjustments are necessary
to the members  working conditions in order to comply with
your obligations under discrimination and equality  laws. If
you dont, and if your failure  to comply with your  obligations
prevents the relevant member from working  then we may not
pay some  or all of the benefit 
I understand the connection Aviva is making  here and I agree that the term suggests Mr K 
must be following  his role on a part time basis for it to pay proportionate benefit. But Im not 
persuaded this is a fair term to apply given the individual circumstances of this case. I say 
that because Im not sure what other steps Mr K could reasonably  take in order  to get his 
employer to allow him to work on a part time basis. 
Ref: DRN24500523Mr K has followed medical advice which states he can only work reduced hours for the 
foreseeable future. Some medical advice even suggested his symptoms are likely to be life-
long and extremely difficult for to him control  and therefore is highly unlikely that hell be able 
to return to work in his previous role. And so given the particularly difficult  circumstances 
surrounding Mr K and his will to return to work in some capacity, it seems unfair that Aviva  
would rely on the above term in the way that it has. 
Avivas main  argument is that this is an issue between Mr K and his employer,  Z. And that 
may be the case,  but Im not persuaded it means Aviva can fairly avoid paying Mr K any 
benefit in the meantime.  Z is also Avivas policy holder and Mr K is a beneficiary under that 
policy, so I think it reasonable to suggest that Aviva shoulder some  responsibility here to do 
the right thing whilst  these challenges are on-going. 
The second  term listed above suggests that if the policy holder, Z, doesnt look to make 
reasonable adjustments to enable  its beneficiaries,  in this case  Mr K, to return  to work then it 
may not pay some or all of the benefit.  It doesnt  say that it wont  pay any benefit  in these 
circumstances. This means Aviva  has the discretion to make a choice whether to pay some, 
or all the benefit  and I dont think its exercised its discretion fairly here. 
Aviva is aware of the difficulties faced by Mr K with its policy holder. The evidence available 
seems to suggest that Z isnt engaging with the situation as expected  and its unclear why 
this might be. Aviva was able to pay proportionate benefit whilst Mr K was completing a 
phased return to work after his cancer treatment and so this would suggest  that Z is able to 
offer part time work as it did so then. In any event, thats something for Mr K and Z to 
resolve. In the meantime,  I think Mr K is entitled  to receive the benefit of this policy whilst this 
issue is on-going  because hes medically unable  to fulfil the full time responsibilities of his 
role.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Aviva Life & Pensions Limited 
must now;
Pay Mr Ks claim in accordance with the remaining  terms and conditions  of this policy 
and;
Add 8% simple interest to the amount owed from the date the claim should  have 
been paid until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2450052