K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from TSB Bank  PLC (TSB) following the 
closure of his bank  account, in particular regarding the non return of funds received into his 
account, and the payment to him for the balance on his account. 
background
On the 10 February  2019 £7,000 was received into Mr As bank account. TSB asked him to 
provide proof of entitlement  to the funds within 14 days in accordance with the terms and 
conditions on his account, which he failed to do. TSB then became suspicious about this 
payment and placed a block on his account.
On the 25 April Mr A lodged a complaint online saying that when he had visited  a branch on 
the 21 March  he was told his account  had been deactivated due to a general review  and a 
cheque for the balance  on the account sent to the address on the banks file. He said he had 
not received the cheque.  
On the 29 April Mr A called TSB a number of times but failed to pass through security. 
However when he eventually did he confirmed he had received the cheque but wanted to 
know why the £7,000  had not been included. The advisor told him that it had been retuned  
to the senders (X) bank,  which turned out to be incorrect.  She also told him that the balance 
cheque had been stopped  as he had previously said he hadnt received it. She said a new 
one would be issued,  and although there followed some difficulty  in Mr A receiving  it he 
eventually did so in January 2020.
Mr A was unhappy it took so long for him to receive  the balance  cheque,  and was also 
unhappy that despite being told the £7,000 had been returned to Xs bank, it had not.
TSB said they had correctly sent out the balance cheque to the address they had on their 
file, and on one occasion it had been signed  for. They therefore didnt think  they had done  
anything wrong  in relation to this point  of the complaint.  
In relation to the £7,000  cheque they accepted they had told Mr A the funds had been  
returned to the Xs bank on the 29 April, and that had been incorrect. But upon  request from 
this service in September 2019, they had explained that X would need to contact his own 
bank to ask them to provide an indemnity to the TSB before  the funds could be released. 
TSB also argued that as no proof of entitlement to the funds was ever provided, nor any 
indemnity, that they had done  nothing wrong.
Mr A was unhappy with TSBs response  and so the investigator from this service  looked into 
the complaint  and found that there  had been  some failings in the level of service provided by 
TSB. She found that as far as the balance cheque was concerned  TSB hadnt  done anything 
wrong, but in relation to the £7,000 she thought  that as Mr A hadnt proved his entitlement to 
the funds, TSB ought to have returned  them to Xs bank  after a reasonable period.  In not 
doing so, and in not explaining to Mr A what X needed to do, she thought  TSB had acted 
unfairly, and as a result  recommended  they pay Mr A £150  compensation. As TSB didnt 
agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN25849102my provisional decision  
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on the on the 30 March  2020. I said that I 
didnt think that TSB had done anything wrong  and I didnt think  it needed to do anything to 
settle the complaint.
responses my provisional decision
Neither TSB nor Mr A responded to my provisional  decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate. Im 
not the industry regulator, and I dont  have power to make rules  for financial businesses, 
direct that they change  their processes, or punish them. That is for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
I will consider  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A. I aim to 
address all relevant  points  with a view to reaching  a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides  views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come  to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Having considered the evidence regarding the balance cheque  I am satisfied it was properly 
sent out to the address  given by Mr A. On one occasion it was signed for proving it was 
received. So, I dont think TSB could have done any more and I dont think  they acted 
unfairly in this respect.
Turning to the issue of the £7,000, I think this needs  to be put in its proper context. The TSB 
contact notes show that on the 11 February  Mr A spoke to the TSB about  withdrawing the 
£7,000 and told them that the money was in relation to a business  transaction for work he 
had done. The operator asked him if he could provide an invoice. This contrasts significantly 
with the explanation Mr A gave in his formal complaint to this service when he said it was for 
a charity project, and it also contrasts  with his email of the 15 May to this service when he 
said it was a gift. These inconsistencies are compounded by Mr As inability or unwillingness  
to provide proof of his entitlement to the funds.
Mr A was told that the £7,000 had been returned to Xs bank, and it is clear that he then told 
X that information.  Whilst that information was inaccurate, X would have known very quickly  
that the funds  had not arrived back in his account. It is therefore reasonable to assume  that 
X would then have  made his enquiries of his own bank as to how the funds might  be 
recovered, and in the light of the explanation given by Mr A. Although some time then 
elapsed before Mr A learned from this service  that TSB would require an indemnity  to be 
given, none was ever forthcoming. I understand that Mr A and X may have lost confidence in 
the TSB,  and thus be reluctant to provide an indemnity, but I do not consider that is a 
reasonable position to take.  
I also take note that any delay  in Mr A receiving the funds from X, because they were  not 
returned, is entirely as a result of Mr As own conduct in not providing the necessary proof of 
Ref: DRN25849103entitlement in the first instance. This has also been compounded by Xs now refusal to 
provide an indemnity so that the funds might  be returned  to him.
The issue  here is whether  TSB have acted unfairly  towards Mr A, not X, since it is Mr A who 
brings the complaint. So for the reasons I have set out I dont think TSB has acted unfairly 
here and Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know that Mr A may be disappointed  by my 
decision, but I dont think that TSB have  done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont think TSB Bank plc needs  to 
do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2584910