K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that St Andrews  Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The PPI was sold to Mr K in December  2005.  St Andrews  says it was sold by phone  but 
Mr K disputes this.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Usually, if the credit card and PPI are sold at the same time,  they have the same start date. 
Mr Ks credit  card account went live on 7 December  2005. The policy schedule shows that 
the PPI went live on 14 December 2005. So this seems to indicate that the policy was sold 
separately and slightly  later to Mr K applying for the credit card.  It was common practice at 
that time for St Andrews  to call people after the sale of a credit card to see if they wanted to 
take out PPI. Mr K has found some  documentation from the time, including the welcome 
letter thanking him for his PPI application. He says that it doesnt  mention a phone call, but I 
wouldnt expect a welcome letter to mention the original  sales channel.  The sale happened a 
long time ago, so it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr Ks recollection of events has faded, 
especially as receiving  a call about insurance  is not a particularly memorable event. And in 
fact Mr K has told us that he couldnt remember how the PPI had been sold to him. So 
although Mr K says that he didnt get a call, on balance  I think that is more likely than the 
sale was by phone.
The call script that was in use at the time does make it clear  that the policy was optional. 
Also, because Mr K already had the credit card, I think he would most likely  have  known that 
the PPI was not a condition of having  the card. On balance I think  that Mr K probably 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing  that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers 
doing so.
St Andrews  advised  Mr K to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending  the policy  to him it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr K couldnt remember if he would have received any sick pay from his employer. 
Regardless of this, the policy  would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially 
for longer than Mr K would have  received  full pay for. And Mr K hasnt mentioned any other 
means, such as savings, that he could fall back on. Mr K says that family would have helped,  
but other people cant always be relied upon  as their circumstances can change. So I think 
that Mr K had a need for the policy and could have  benefitted from it.
Ref: DRN22287162Its possible that St Andrews didnt  provide  Mr K with as much  information about the policy  
as it could have,  particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr K wasnt affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  he has an interest  in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So he isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything St Andrews may have done wrong, so theres nothing that 
St Andrews  needs  to do to put things  right.  It follows  that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228716