K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him Payment Protection Insurance  
(PPI) alongside a mortgage. He says the policy wasnt suitable for him and he didnt need it 
 he was pushed  into taking it out and he couldnt  afford it.
background
I dont intend to set out everything here  both parties  are aware of the circumstances 
leading up to this complaint and the adjudicator set them out clearly. But in summary:
Mr C took out PPI and it started at the same time as his mortgage  in 2002. The sale took 
place during a meeting in-branch.  
The PPI provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and had a monthly benefit 
at the start of just over £150 a month.  It would pay out for up to 24 months per claim and at 
the outset it cost just under £10 per month.
Mr C has told us that at the time he was employed and was entitled  to sick pay of six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay. He said he was also entitled  to redundancy 
pay, but had no other means  such as savings to fall back on.
The mortgage account was closed in 2006 and the PPI was cancelled  at the same time.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said that while there  was a lack of 
paperwork documenting what happened, she thought on balance Mr C chose to take out the 
cover. And she said there was nothing to indicate  hed lost out as a result of having the 
policy and so didnt  recommend he receive any compensation.
Mr C, through his representative, disagrees.  In doing so they say Mr C didnt need the cover 
because of the level of sick pay he was entitled to and said because he was in financial  
difficulty he couldve done without  the added expense.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
But by way of summary   having taken into account relevant law, industry  codes of practice,  
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards and what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time, overall  I think this means BoS should:
have given Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information about  the
policy to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take it out,
including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not
 misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and the significant limitations and
exclusions so he could  decide if he wanted to take it out.
Ref: DRN29266342and if BoS gave advice they shouldve advised with reasonable care and skill
 in particular  they shouldve made sure the policy was appropriate or suitable  for Mr
Cs needs and circumstances at the time.
if having considered the above I find there were failings, I need  to go on to consider
if, and to what extent, Mr C has lost out and what  fair compensation should  be.
Its not disputed  the sale took place in-branch.  I can see Mr C says BoS didnt provide advice 
but BoS says it did. Given BoS own testimony  that it provided  advice  to Mr C, Im happy to 
consider this was an advised sale  BoS is in the best position to say how branch sales  like 
this were carried out. This means, as Ive set out above, BoS needed  to ensure the policy  
was right or suitable  for Mr C as well as telling him everything he needed  to know  about  it. 
did BoS make it clear Mr C had a choice about PPI?
Mr C says the adviser never mentioned  PPI during the meeting and he was unaware it was 
added to his account. BoS says it made it clear the policy was optional.
In this case the sale happened more  than 15 years ago and the mortgage  account has long 
since closed. Its therefore not surprising that BoS no longer has any paperwork from the 
meeting in 2002 about PPI  businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely.
While I hear what  Mr C says, BoS has provided us with example documents  from around the 
time Mr C took out PPI, which would have required the customer  to indicate whether they 
wanted to accept the recommendation for PPI or not. The cost would  also have been set out 
separately from the mortgage  in my view helping to show  that PPI was not an intrinsic or 
compulsory part of having the mortgage.
So having  considered things carefully, including taking into account how long ago things 
happened, I think its likely Mr C completed paperwork like, or very similar to, the examples 
BoS has shown  us. So I think he chose to take out PPI. Im not persuaded its more likely 
than not that something different happened and PPI was added without Mr Cs knowledge or 
consent. 
I can see Mr C has also said that he felt pushed  or pressured into taking out PPI. And while  I 
accept that in recommending the policy BoS might have encouraged Mr C to take it out, Ive 
not seen enough evidence to persuade  me that BoS went further than this and forced Mr C 
to take it out.
what happened   was Mr C properly  advised  and informed?
if not  to what extent  has he lost out?
Moving on to what happened  at the time - because of the lack of paperwork and information 
about what took place, I dont know how PPI was introduced to Mr C and if he got
all the information  he needed to make  an informed choice about  it or what steps, if any, BoS 
took to ensure the cover was suitable for him.
I think its likely Mr C got a policy document after he took out the policy  because  this is what 
BoS was required  to do. But this doesnt  tell me that Mr C got the information he needed  and 
Ref: DRN29266343in a timely manner to make an informed decision  I think in a meeting scenario it would be 
reasonable for him to have taken more notice and relied on what he was told by the adviser 
rather than written material  he received later on. In any event he didnt base his decision to 
take out PPI on this information.
So the evidence  doesnt show me that Mr C was clearly told about  the significant  exclusions 
and limitations of cover  for example the limitations  around claiming  for back and mental 
health related  issues. And neither am I persuaded Mr C was told clearly  about how much  the 
PPI cost and the benefit it would provide; albeit Im not persuaded Mr C would have  agreed  
to go ahead without  knowing something  about  how much  it was going to cost him.
So I cant conclude everything  happened as it fairly and reasonably should have done. To 
that extent I accept it is likely there  were  failings. But this doesnt  automatically mean Mr Cs 
complaint should  succeed. I need to go on and consider if, and to what  extent, Mr Cs lost 
out as a result of the things BoS didnt do.
Having done so and considered all of the evidence  presented to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances, I find PPI was ultimately suitable for Mr C. And I
dont think it is likely,  given his circumstances  at the time, he would have arrived
at a different  decision and declined PPI if BoS had done more.  I say this because:
Mr C was eligible  he qualified  for the cover and all of its benefits.
Mr C was employed, so he would not have been affected or put off by the significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover around  unusual employment circumstances. He 
was in good health at the time albeit the policy didnt exclude existing medical 
conditions.
The policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for Mr C given his 
circumstances at the time.
Mr C says he had more  than six months  sick pay and was entitled to redundancy 
pay. But I think he still had a need for cover. The policy would have  paid out in 
addition to any existing  means and for longer if necessary - up to 24 months - either 
leaving these means intact or allowing them to be used for other household and 
ongoing expenditure. Mr C didnt have  any other  means or savings to fall back on.
A 24 month limit to the pay-out might  have been different from what Mr C expected. 
But I think Mr C would  have found  a policy useful that paid out beyond the amount of 
time his existing means would have lasted and it would  have helped him protect his 
home - it would have  helped him manage the financial consequences at what would 
likely be a difficult and uncertain  time.   
Ive already said the evidence doesnt  show that Mr C was told about the exact cost 
of the policy  or what it would pay out before he agreed to it. But as I also said above I 
find it unlikely he agreed to take it out without knowing something about the cost. In 
addition I dont  think Mr Cs expectations about  what the policy  offered in terms of 
benefit was any different  to what the policy actually did  i.e. protect his monthly  
mortgage payments.
At under £10 a month, I dont think the cost was unaffordable or at a level that made  
it unsuitable for Mr C in his circumstances.  I can see Mr Cs said he was looking to 
reduce his outgoings, which was the reason for the re-mortgage. 
He also says he refinanced a debt at the same time. But Ive not seen enough to 
persuade me that Mr C was in financial difficulty or struggling to the extent that 
Ref: DRN29266344recommending a policy at under £10, which would help protect his main  asset  if 
things went wrong, was the wrong thing to do.
The most likely difference  from what Mr C expected from the policy  was around the 
limitations for claims  relating to back and mental  health issues.  Because it was more difficult 
for Mr C to claim  for these  things, BoS should have considered these  terms when it 
recommended the cover  as being  suitable  for him and it should have clearly told him about 
them.
I accept these things  were important for Mr C to know  and they may have factored into his 
thinking about whether the policy still worked  for him  as Mr Cs representative has referred  
to these things  are common conditions. I also accept that for some people in slightly  different 
circumstances these  things might have caused them to think  carefully  about  the cover  and 
perhaps might have caused  them  to change their minds about taking out this policy.
But in Mr Cs particular circumstances I dont  think these  things made  the policy  unsuitable 
for him. I think  he still had good reasons to take out PPI  reasons Ive set out in detail 
above. And it is these  things - the fact that he didnt have  savings to fall back  on and he was 
borrowing money secured  against his home - that he would have weighed up and I think 
placed more weight on in thinking  about whether the recommended  cover  worked  for him.
So overall and having carefully considered  all of the evidence provided  by both parties to this 
dispute, I find Mr C has not lost out as a result of taking out PPI to protect his mortgage. I 
say this because, for the reasons Ive described above, I dont think  it was wrong for BoS to 
recommend PPI to Mr C. And I think he would still have gone ahead  and taken out the policy  
if BoS had done everything it should  have.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr C has not suffered loss as a result of 
taking out PPI with his mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2926634