K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mrs C payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  not be upheld. Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion; she also repeated that she was unhappy with the way HSBC had 
handled her complaint, telling her more than once that she hadnt had PPI, which was 
untrue. Because there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.
From the information I had at that point,  I agreed with the adjudicator that the PPI hadnt  
been mis-sold. But I wanted to give my view of how HSBC had handled Mrs Cs complaint. 
So I wrote a provisional decision and asked for comments and evidence. This is what  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Sale of the PPI
My current  view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why. 
Mrs C says she was told that if she didnt have PPI she could not have the HSBC 
mortgage. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless  there 
was reasonable  supporting evidence of this. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires  that the person making  the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. Although I accept  this puts Mrs C in a difficult  
position, it wouldnt be fair to require someone  to prove they didnt do something,  
especially when it was such a long time ago. And I can see HSBCs written 
recommendation of PPI, and this at least isnt presented as though the PPI is 
compulsory. So, overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly say the PPI was 
added without Mrs Cs genuine  agreement.  
Ive also looked  at whether there  were  other  possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think  they apply to this case. I will explain 
why:
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs C, and this means it had a higher standard  
to reach  during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs Cs particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based  
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  And the PPI would have paid benefits 
at the same time as Mrs C received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy 
pay. And it would  have put off the time when she would need to fall back  on any 
Ref: DRN27105182savings or family help.  This all would have put Mrs C in a more  secure  position,  if 
she eventually lost income due to long term sickness  or unemployment. And Ive 
not been told anything to suggest she couldnt  afford the PPI when she took it 
out. So I think the PPI would  have  been potentially useful.
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy, 
although there is mention of the costs in the recommendation. But I dont anyway  
think full and clear information  about  the costs  would  have affected whether 
Mrs C took the PPI.
Its possible HSBC didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs C would have been affected  by any of these.  Its likely  she 
was eligible for the policy, and shed  be paying  for it monthly, so she could cancel 
it at any time without further  cost if her situation  changed.
Handling of the complaint
HSBC at first told Mrs C, on more than one occasion, that she hadnt had PPI. 
However, there was an error in its process  at the time, because it was failing to 
contact the right insurance administrator  to carry out its checks. When it did, it 
discovered Mrs C had had PPI. We know that this affected a number of customers. It 
has apologised for this error. Im satisfied that it was not an intentional attempt to put 
barriers in the way of Mrs C. 
I can see also that Mrs C questioned why she needed to give consent for her details 
to be passed on to a third party  but this would appear to be because the 
administrators of the original PPI policy are a separate organisation.  
I can see that this all must have caused  Mrs C annoyance and inconvenience,  and 
its not clear to me how well HSBC  explained  all this to Mrs C. But I accept that it 
appears to have been a genuine mistake  on HSBCs  part, and I currently  think  its 
acceptance of its error  and the apology it has offered, are enough to close the matter.  
HSBC did not make any comments in response  to my provisional decision. Mrs C said she 
didnt agree with the decision,  and the investigation needed to be re-opened. She said that 
the way HSBC handled the complaint had caused  her stress and that she hadnt received an 
apology. But she didnt  give reasons why my explanation was wrong,  and she didnt give me 
new evidence to help change my view of the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the apology  given by HSBC was through  the ombudsman service  and not direct  
to Mrs C (which  would have been  much  better):  it said We apologise for this flaw in our 
procedures which have  now been  corrected.  I still do not, however, think that HSBCs 
mistake means I should tell it to take further  action.
As there is no new evidence about  the sale of the PPI, I have decided  to confirm my 
decision, as set out in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN27105183my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2710518