K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc acted unfairly  and unreasonably by telling 
them that they could transfer  (port) their mortgage product to a new property, and then not 
permitting the port to proceed. They want the early  repayment charge (ERC) refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage product  with Santander which if repaid early would meant 
that an ERC would be due. It was due to end in October 2018.  Mr C said that he wanted to 
move home and spoke  to Santander twice during October 2018. He said that he was told he 
could port a product to a new property if he moved and he should pick the new product 
online. Mr C did so and said that he was told after taking the product  out the new product 
didnt have any ERCs. But Mr and Mrs C ended up wanting to borrow more  money  to move 
home in 2019,  and Santander declined the application. Mr and Mrs C went  to another lender  
and repaid the mortgage early  Santander  required an ERC to be paid.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Santander. It said that it couldnt trace Mr Cs calls but was 
willing to accept that he was told products were portable, which  was correct. Santander said 
that it hadnt made any mistake that justified  waiving the ERC.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to us. Santander  said that the product taken out in 2018  was done 
by Mr C online without advice and provided evidence of the warning on the screen  telling 
him not to proceed if he intended to move home in the next months. It also said that there 
was no record of Mr C talking to its staff about his intention to move  or portability in 2018,  
despite listening to the calls from October 2018.  Santander said that the call recordings 
showed that Mr C was told he didnt have to pay an ERC for taking  out a new product in 
2018, not that the new product didnt have an ERC attached.
The investigators view was that Santander wasnt at fault.  It was correct that the product 
could be ported, though it was clear from the offer accepted that such  applications were 
subject to the lending policies in place at the time of application. The issue  was that 
Mr and Mrs C wanted to borrow  more  money  and this wasnt  acceptable to Santander. She 
said that it was their choice to proceed, knowing of the ERC, and repay the mortgage  early 
in order to get a bigger mortgage  from elsewhere. The investigator  noted that Mr C was told 
that if he repaid  the mortgage  to go elsewhere  the ERC would be charged.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed.  They were  provided with a call recording and disagreed  with what 
the investigators account of the details  of the call. The investigator said the call showed 
Mr C was told the new product had an ERC  which would be charged  if he went  elsewhere, 
but there was no ERC for changing his product in October 2018. Mr C still disagreed  and 
said Santander had told him several  times  that the product was portable.  The investigator 
said that there was no call recordings supporting Mr Cs account.
Ref: DRN24021292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to the call recordings.
ERCs are lawful if set out clearly in the mortgage  offer and theyre a genuine pre-estimate of 
the loss Santander may suffer if repaid early. Santander has to borrow the mortgage money 
from the markets and suffers a loss if repayment  is made early.  Mr and Mrs C arent  disputing  
this or that the offer they accepted in 2018  did set out the ERC and said porting applications  
were subject to lending polices in place  at the time. Their point is that because  they couldnt 
port their mortgage  to the property they wanted (as they needed to borrow more money), 
despite being told that they could, it isnt fair or reasonable for Santander to claim the ERC.
Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement about to whom  to lend and how much. 
Different lenders  have  different  views  about risk, and thats acceptable.  In Mr and Mrs Cs case, 
they needed to borrow more money  to buy the new property,  and Santander wasnt  willing  to 
lend it  thats a view its able to reasonably take. That left Mr and Mrs C with a choice  either 
borrow less money (or nothing extra) and port to a cheaper property, or repay the mortgage  
early in order to get a bigger mortgage from another lender. They  choose the latter option. It 
was their choice, but it doesnt mean  its unfair or unreasonable  for Santander to enforce the 
legal agreement and claim the ERC to deal with the loss it suffered due to the early repayment. 
Having listened  to the call, Mr C was told he would be charged an ERC if he repaid early and 
went to another  lender, though things got confused  towards the end of the call as Mr C and 
the member of staff talked  over each other. The critical point though is that this call 
happened after the new product was taken out, and the ERC had been set out clearly  in the 
mortgage offer. So its irrelevant  what Mr C was told in this call about the new product hed 
already taken out  if a mistake was made,  my role isnt to punish the business but to put in 
place what shouldve happened.  Mr and Mrs C took out a product in October  2018  with an 
ERC, and knew about the ERC  when  they choose  to repay it from both the offer they 
accepted and the redemption statement. What shouldve  happened,  and did happen, is that 
they were charged  an ERC when they repaid the mortgage early.
In summary,  the product  Mr and Mrs C took out in October 2018 was portable,  but because 
Mr and Mrs C wanted to borrow  more,  they chose to borrow all of the money from another lender, 
triggering the right to the ERC. Santander never  promised to allow a port to happen in all 
circumstances; indeed,  the mortgage  offer shows the contrary. Mr and Mrs C choose the new 
product in 2018 themselves without  advice, despite the warnings  on the website - Santander didnt 
mis-sell the product and set out all the relevant information in the offer they accepted. The ERC  
was due and its fair and reasonable for Santander to have  claimed it in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2402129