K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that he has been  asked  to make payments for a loan with Amigo Loans  Ltd 
in respect of which he agreed  to act as guarantor.
background
In January 2013 Mr M agreed to act as a guarantor  for a loan taken out by his friend. The 
loan amount was for £3000 over a term of 36 months with a monthly payment of £161.01.
In December 2015 Mr M received a statement from Amigo confirming that the loan had been 
settled.
In August  2018  Mr M received a text from Amigo advising him that he was in default and 
asking him to pay £161.01.  Mr M received  two more texts advising him that the amount 
owing under the loan was £2447.44 and then a higher  amount of £2611.76.
Mr M contacted Amigo who told him that his friend had made payments to his loan account 
using the recorded payment line despite entering into a protected trust deed.  Amigo  had 
been contacted by the practitioner  of the trust deed in August 2018  who advised that the 
payments were outside the trust deed and had to be repaid.  Amigo refunded the payments 
which meant that the account was in arrears. Amigo then contacted Mr M and asked him to 
make payments because  his friend  was unable  to.
Mr M complained to Amigo. He said he hadnt  been informed that his friend had entered into 
a trust deed or that the loan account  had been re-opened.
In its final response Amigo explained  that it was legally obliged  to refund the payments but 
acknowledged that it could have done more to keep  Mr M informed and offered to pay 
compensation of £40.
Mr M was unhappy with the response from Amigo and complained to this service. He said 
his financial circumstances had changed since the loan was taken  out and he couldnt afford 
to make any payments.
Our investigator said that even though Amigo should have kept Mr M informed when it was 
notified about the trust deed  in 2014  this wouldnt  have  released Mr M from his responsibility 
as guarantor. The investigator felt that Amigo could have handled the situation better and 
recommended that Amigo pay total compensation of £150  to Mr M.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he would  have been in a much better position to pay off the loan 
in 2014 and he didnt feel it was fair to ask him to pay off the loan 5 years later because he 
had only agreed  to be a guarantor  for 36 months  in 2013. Mr M said that £150 compensation 
wasnt enough. He wanted to be released from his responsibilities as guarantor.
Amigo didnt agree either. It accepted  that it should have contacted  Mr M sooner to make  
him aware  that his friend had entered into a trust deed but said that even if it had done this in 
2014 the account holder  might still have continued  to make payments using the recorded 
payments line which  would have meant that it couldnt collect  payments from Mr M. It also 
said that when  it contacted Mr M in August 2018 it had offered to put an affordable payment 
plan in place.  Because  of this Amigo felt that the compensation it had offered was 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN25307372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which apply to Mr M in his capacity as guarantor. 
These say that if the borrower fails to make a payment by the due date the guarantor  must 
make the payment. The terms  and conditions also say that the agreement  will not be 
affected by the borrower entering  into an individual voluntary arrangement  or similar.
The guarantee is a continuing  guarantee. Whilst I understand why Mr M thinks that he only 
guaranteed payments for the term of the loan, this isnt the case where the loan isnt repaid 
within the term. The guarantee continues  all the time there is an outstanding  loan balance.
I can see from the information provided that Amigo was told that the borrower had entered 
into a trust deed in September 2014.  Once Amigo was aware of the trust deed it shouldnt  
have accepted any further payments from the borrower. It should  have  contacted Mr M and 
collected payments  from him instead.
I appreciate the practical problem in that the borrower continued to make payments. But this 
of itself doesnt explain why Amigo accepted the payments  (rather  than returning them  to the 
borrower) or why Amigo didnt contact Mr M to advise him of the trust deed. Even  if the 
payments were made  by the borrower using the payments line, I think that Amigo  should 
have been able to tell from its systems that payments were being made to the account and 
taken steps to return these payments.  
When the payments  were  refunded in 2018 Amigo sent Mr M a text advising him that he was 
in default. Given  the length of time which had passed since Mr M was last contacted about 
the account, and given  that the last contact with Mr M was to tell him that the account had 
been settled, I dont think it was appropriate  for Amigo to contact Mr M by text. I think that 
Amigo could have handled the situation better  by telephoning or writing to Mr M and 
explaining what had happened since 2014.  Im persuaded that receiving a text asking for 
payment without any further explanation  followed by two further texts with conflicting loan 
balances would have  caused Mr M a significant  degree of distress and upset.
Ive thought about whether the circumstances would have been different if Mr M had been  
kept informed  about the trust deed in 2014.  On the available evidence,  I dont think the 
outcome would be any different. I say this because  in all likelihood the borrower would still 
have made  payments using the payment line and its unlikely that Mr M would have taken 
steps to stop the borrower paying  and volunteered to make payments himself.
I appreciate that Mr Ms financial circumstances  are different now to what  they were  in 2014. 
Although I think that Amigo  could  have handled the situation better, I dont think  that what  
has happened warrants the release of Mr M from his responsibilities as guarantor. However, 
if Mr M is going  to find it difficult to make payments then I would expect  Amigo  to treat him 
positively and sympathetically and reach agreement on an affordable payment plan.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account Im satisfied that Mr M should 
remain responsible  for the loan in his capacity as guarantor and I wont  be asking Amigo to 
release him. I think Amigo could  have handled the situation better by keeping Mr M informed 
about the trust deed in 2014 and by contacting Mr M to explain the situation in 2018. Im 
Ref: DRN25307373satisfied that Mr M has been caused significant  distress and upset  which warrants  a higher 
level of compensation  than that which Amigo has currently  offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Amigo Loans Ltd should pay compensation 
of £150 to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2530737