K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001, alongside  a mortgage. Mr and Mrs P say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)    
mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs P say they werent told that PPI was optional  and they didnt need or want the 
policy given their work benefits and other  resources.  YBS still has a number of documents  
from the time of the sale. This includes  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps separate  PPI application 
form. This makes it clear  that PPI is optional. The form also required Mr and Mrs P to make 
some decisions  about the type of PPI cover  they wanted. So, I think  it likely that PPI was 
discussed, that Mr and Mrs P said they wanted it, and it was made clear they didnt have to 
have it. I can understand why they may not remember that now given how much time has 
passed. 
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs P got the information  they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them  and they wanted  to buy it. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. They  took out joint cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   
so I think it couldve been useful to them if something went  wrong.  
Mr and Mrs P said they wouldve got sick pay from work and had some savings and other 
policies they could make  their repayments  from. I cant see that they had duplicate cover  and 
the policy wouldve  paid out on top of their work benefits at what  might  be a difficult time for 
them financially  if one of them wasnt working.  So, I cant see that their other resources 
made this policy  inappropriate for them.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs P off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs P have said,  but this doesnt change my 
view.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN24970592Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2497059