K822xcomplaint
Miss M is unhappy about the service  shes  received from TSB Bank  plc in relation to her 
bank account.  She is particularly  unhappy  about a payment that was made to the wrong 
recipient.
background 
In April 2018 TSB began  having widespread problems with its IT system. As a result of these 
Miss M experienced issues with accessing her account online,  particularly via the mobile  
app. 
As well as the inconvenience this caused,  around  £770 was transferred from Miss Ms 
account to an incorrect recipient.  In effect, Miss M had intended to pay her sons nursery  but 
instead selected a different payee. This payee  was her sons  Junior ISA, held with a third 
party bank. 
Whilst this error was quickly identified by Miss M, she was unable to recover  the money  from 
the third party  bank, due to the specific rules around  Junior  ISAs.  She made a number of 
calls to TSB,  the third party bank,  and HMRC. Miss M also had to borrow funds from her 
father to pay her sons nursery bill. 
Miss M complained about the impact of this, bringing her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator felt it would be fair for TSB to compensate  Miss M £150 for the inconvenience  
caused to her by the general  issues with the account. But the investigator  didnt think  it was 
reasonable that TSB should be held responsible for the transfer being made to the Junior 
ISA. Miss M disagreed and her complaint has been  passed to me. 
Having taken all of the circumstances into account,  I did think that although Miss M had 
made the transfer, and the payment had been sent to the recipient shed selected, the wider 
issues with the mobile  app had contributed to this. And I felt it would be fair for TSB 
compensate Miss M further than the initial recommendation; a total sum of £300. I also felt 
that TSB should  reimburse Miss M for the cost of her telephone  calls; around £16.
I explained my reasoning  to Miss M. But she, understandably, wanted TSB to recover  the 
funds from the Junior ISA account. Miss M felt that neither she nor her father could  go 
without this money. Miss M considered that the issue was the fault of TSB,  and that TSB 
hadnt done enough to recover the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M makes regular  contributions to her sons Junior ISA. So this third party account is 
one that she has listed as a payee on her TSB account. However, the sum Miss M is able to 
pay into this account  on a regular basis is far below that transferred in May 2018.  
Miss M has explained that TSB had altered  the layout of the app and that different types of 
payee had been grouped together. As a result a number  of payees, which had been given 
the same  name, appeared  in the same  place. 
Ref: DRN20427652I also understand that the payment to her sons nursery needed to be made promptly, and 
that the access issues Miss M had experienced with the app (as well as causing 
inconvenience itself) meant she took less time to check the transfer  than she otherwise 
would have. 
However, ultimately, TSB transferred the chosen  amount of money to the destination that 
was selected by Miss M. So it correctly carried out the instructions it was given. And it was 
Miss Ms responsibility to make sure these instructions were correct.  
Although the names of the payees  may have been  the same  on the app, the payment details 
for these  payees (account numbers, sort codes, etc.) would  have been  different. And Miss M 
would have been able to check these  before  confirming the transfer. 
So, although  the issues with the app contributed to the mistake,  I cant  say it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold TSB fully responsible. 
TSB did apparently  tell Miss M that it would be able to recover the money. And asked her to 
complete an application form to this end. In many  circumstances where  a transfer  is 
mistakenly sent by an account holder to the wrong  recipient, it is possible to recover  the 
money. So I dont  find it unusual that TSBs staff thought this was the case  here. However,  
due to the type of account these  funds were sent to, this wasnt possible.  And TSB gave  
Miss M incorrect  information at this point, adding to the trouble and upset  she experienced.  
TSB has since  sent the recipient bank  a letter, explaining how this situation  arose.  As the 
transfer was completed  as instructed,  I dont  think TSB could reasonably do anything  further  
to try and recover these funds. 
I do have a great deal of sympathy for Miss Ms situation. But taking everything into account, 
I consider TSB should refund her in total compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Miss M £16 for her 
call costs and £300 compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2042765