K820x#14complaint
Mr S says NewDay  Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  on his 
credit card.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 9 May 2019,  a copy extract  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
Mr S has responded and I have considered his further comments but overall it doesnt 
change the outcome of this complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence  or arguments have been provided, I see no reason  to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do not uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against NewDay  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
Citi accounts in relation to the credit cards Mr S took out were  transferred to a company  who changed 
its name to NewDay Ltd (NewDay). NewDay  is therefore responsible for answering this complaint. To 
keep things simple Ill refer to NewDay in the rest of my decision.
Ref: DRN24290362In August 2003 Mr S received a letter confirming that PPI was in place at his request. The letter  didnt 
state which  account the PPI was attached to but its likely it was to cover a credit card account with 
NewDay as that is the only product he had with the business.
   
The letter confirmed  the policy  was free for the first three months and then it would cost 85p per £100 
of the monthly outstanding  balance.  A successful  claim on the policy wouldve paid the minimum 
monthly repayment on Mr Ss credit card if he was off work sick or lost his job. And it wouldve cleared  
the balance if Mr S died.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because he didnt think  the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr S or that Mr S was given the opportunity to confirm he wanted  to take 
the policy  out.  
NewDay disagreed. It says based on the evidence  available PPI premiums were never  charged to Mr 
Ss credit card account.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general  approach to complaints about  the sale 
of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im currently  intending not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
The sale took place over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information  available from 
the time of the sale.  So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information  I have and what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened.
NewDay only has credit card statements dating back to 2005 and has no record of PPI ever being 
attached to Mr Ss credit card accounts. The only evidence of Mr S having PPI is a letter he received 
in 2003 confirming PPI was now in place. But the letter fails to state exactly what account  if any - 
PPI was in place on.
Based on the information I have I cant say with certainty that PPI was attached to Mr Ss credit card 
with NewDay,  but I think its likely this is the case as he had a credit card account  with NewDay and I 
think its more  likely  he received this letter in response to PPI being  added to his account rather  than 
any mailing mistake on NewDays  part.
But just because Mr S had PPI it doesnt automatically follow that it was mis-sold. Neither  NewDay or 
Mr S are able to say how the PPI came to being applied  to his account but because the wording of the 
letter refers to Mr S requesting PPI I think its likely Mr S wouldve  understood that it was optional and 
chose to take the policy.  If he hadnt agreed to take the policy I think he wouldve raised this with 
NewDay on receipt  of the letter. 
NewDay have told us that PPI was sold on a non-advised  basis and I have no reason to believe  that 
this wasnt  the case here. What this means is that PPI wasnt recommended to Mr S by NewDay,  it 
just gave him information about PPI and it was up to Mr S to decide if he needed the policy. This 
information needed to be given  in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI. 
The letter received by Mr S says that the full policy document  is enclosed and advises him to read the 
document carefully. I havent seen a copy of this document, so I dont  know whether the information 
given was good enough and I dont know what information  was given to Mr S when he was sold the 
policy. That being said if NewDay did give all the information Mr S needed  to make an informed 
choice on taking out the policy,  I think  he wouldve  still taken the policy  because  at the time of sale:
Ref: DRN24290363He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which  couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled to some sick pay he could  use to make his 
credit card payments  if he couldnt  work or lost his job. But the policy wouldve paid out of top of 
this and for potentially longer up to 12 months per claim.  
So I think the policy provided a useful benefit for Mr S in his situation.  
We have  no evidence that Mr S ever paid any premiums  on the policy after the initial free three 
month period. All we do know is that no PPI appears on his credit card statements after July 
2005. And if Mr S did pay some PPI premiums between 2003 and 2005 there is nothing to 
suggest he couldnt  afford this and he couldve cancelled  the policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont think it wouldve made  a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on the PPI. 
I think  he wouldve still taken  out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I currently do not intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint against NewDay 
Ltd.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2429036