K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Ulster Bank Ltd closed  down his current  account in 2016 without giving 
him any notice.
background
Mr C says he wasnt told his account was going to be closed, and didnt realise until recently  
he could complain about this.
When he did complain to Ulster they didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyre  entitled  to 
close accounts, and as it says in their terms and conditions they dont have to give any 
reasons for doing so. They also said they sent Mr C a letter in February 2016, giving him 60 
days notice of the closure. And they said the account was closed  in July 2016, with the 
closing balance of the account  being issued by cheque.  
Mr C wasnt happy with their response, as hed like his account  to be reopened, so he 
brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into his complaint and didnt 
think it should be upheld.  In summary  he said the bank were entitled  to close  Mr Cs 
account, and he thought  it was more likely than not that theyd  sent the closure letter.
Mr C didnt agree with this. He said he wasnt  told the account was being closed  and he 
felt such an important letter shouldve been  sent by recorded delivery. So Ive been passed 
his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint,  which I know will come as a disappointment to Mr C. Ill explain why.
Banks like Ulster are allowed to close accounts  with customers, the same  as customers  are 
allowed to close accounts with banks. But when a bank closes  an account this needs to be 
done in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Im satisfied thats what has happened here, and Ulster did enough to let Mr C know  about 
the closure. Ive seen  a copy of the letter they say they sent in February 2016 giving 60 days  
notice. There was no requirement that it be sent by recorded delivery. 
Mr C is also unhappy that Ulster havent given him a reason for closing down his account. 
They didnt have  to tell him why and, in the circumstances,  I see no reason to conclude that 
their decision  to close it was unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN24050452my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405045