K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HSBC  UK Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on their behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs W took out PPI when they applied for a mortgage. It was taken out in 
Mr Ws name only and gave  him protection for the mortgage repayments if he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They  said,  in 
summary, that:
They  werent  told the policy was optional.
An independent  financial advisor  told them in 2007 that the policy  wasnt  in their best 
interests and recommended they cancel it.
They  had work benefits and other policies that covered them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
HSBC has been  able to provide some paperwork from the time of the sale, but doesnt have 
a full record of what  took place.  This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place 
so long ago. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide  what  is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say HSBC did not make  it clear the PPI was optional. Ive thought  carefully 
about Mr and Mrs Ws comments. But there wouldve been a separate  application form for 
the PPI which  they would have needed to sign  separate to the mortgage application. And a 
separate direct debit  mandate. So I think,  overall, HSBC did enough to make Mr and Mrs W 
aware that they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time 
 although I can understand  if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether  advice was given so, to be fair to Mr and Mrs W, Ive considered the 
case to the higher standard of an advised  sale. This means HSBC had to make  sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. 
Mrs W was unemployed in 2004, so wasnt eligible for the policy.  But it was taken  out in 
Mr Ws name only, so its his circumstances that I need to consider.
Ref: DRN25340252He cant quite recall  exactly what pay he wouldve received from his employer if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident, but he thinks he wouldve received at least six months 
pay. The PPI would  have paid out in addition to his work benefits for up to 12 months  for 
accident and sickness claims. It also covered him if hed become unemployed, again for up 
to 12 months. The mortgage  was a significant  long term financial commitment  and Mr and 
Mrs Ws home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. And I cant see that 
any other policies  they had in place duplicated the PPI cover.  I can also see that Mr W made 
a successful claim for unemployment in 2015. So, overall, I dont think  their existing 
arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Mr W says he was told by an independent  financial adviser, in or around 2007, to cancel the 
policy, although the bank told us the policy remained in place until 2016. Im sorry, but this 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion. Im satisfied the PPI wasnt unsuitable in Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances in 2004 when  it was sold. And there was no obligation on HSBC  to 
tell Mr and Mrs W about products available elsewhere that may have been cheaper.
Mr W wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations, so I dont think 
hed have made a different decision if these had been brought to his attention.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr and Mrs W before they 
agreed to purchase  it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer  information  about 
the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ws decision to purchase  the policy.  Theyd  chosen  
to take out the policy, knowing they would have  to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would  have made a 
different decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think its recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs W would  have  made  a different decision about taking 
out the policy if better information had been provided to them   overall,  I think  they would  still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2534025