K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs handling of a home 
insurance claim he made for an escape  of water at his property. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf 
of RSA. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to RSA by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents or representatives.
There is extensive background to this complaint which I wont  repeat in full detail 
here. But I have considered the full timeline  of events when coming  to my provisional 
decision.
Mr Ts property suffered an escape of water in August 2017  when  a waste pipe 
beneath his bath disconnected. The claim was reported to RSA and it arranged 
alternative accommodation for Mr T and his family as the property was uninhabitable 
due to the damage.
RSA settled Mr Ts claim via a cash settlement in mid-2018. It says the amount it 
paid for repairs was not based on the discounted rates available to insurers,  but on a 
tender of several  builders rates. It also paid an amount for further  alternative  
accommodation while the works  were  completed. Mr T accepted the amount RSA 
offered in full and final settlement of his claim.
Mr T has since raised a complaint about the way his claim was handled. Hes 
unhappy with the length of time it took for a settlement to be reached. He also 
complains that asbestos and black  mould testing weren't carried out thoroughly, and 
these errors  by RSAs  agents have meant hes needed to replace all his soft 
furnishings and his bathroom suite.  He says he was advised to do this by the 
Asbestos Association  due to his daughters medical condition.
RSA provided its final response  to Mr Ts complaint in August 2018. It accepted that 
its agent had made  a mistake on his initial report which meant a ceiling that was due 
to be checked  for asbestos wasnt checked  initially. But it said the ceiling wasnt  
damaged until its agent  reattended  to test it, and that the testing site was quickly 
contained. So, it didnt  think  Mr T or his family  had been put at risk by this error. RSA 
apologised that Mr Ts claim took a long time to resolve but said claims of this nature 
can take a long time. It paid Mr T £250  in compensation  to reflect any delays caused 
by its agents and Mr Ts frustration with the mistake on the initial  asbestos report.
Ref: DRN29384922Mr T argues that the ceiling that was initially missed was cracked, which  meant the 
asbestos was likely  disturbed. He says that drying  machines were being used in his 
property at the time so its likely his property was contaminated. He told our service 
he wanted RSA to pay him a sum of money to cover:
the cost of replacing his soft furnishings  and bathroom suite;
the cost of removal, disposal,  replacement and decoration of the landing  
ceiling and walls;
compensation for the delays, disruption and distress experienced by his 
family;
the cost of having the repair work at his property redone,  so that it could be 
guaranteed;
his loss of earnings  for having to be available to let contractors into his 
property and
the increased cost of his insurance  premiums  for the next 15 years.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ts complaint. She didnt think  it would be fair 
to recommend RSA should pay to have the works  completed again as Mr T had 
already accepted a cash settlement offer in full and final settlement of his claim. She 
pointed out that Mr T had declined to have a further test for asbestos  contamination, 
carried out by RSA at her recommendation,  because he had already  replaced his 
furniture. So, she felt there was no available evidence to suggest that Mr T needed to 
replace his soft furnishings or bathroom  suite. 
Our investigator said the majority of the delays in settling the claim were as a result 
of a separate issue of water ingress, discovered  after the initial  escape of water,  
which was dealt with as a separate claim. But she did recommend that RSA should  
increase its offer of compensation to £500  in total.
RSA accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr T didnt. So, because  no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
It isnt in dispute that RSAs agent  initially made an error in not checking  Mr Ts 
landing ceiling for asbestos. Its also not in dispute  that the claim took a long time to 
resolve. What remains for me to decide  is whether RSA, in agreeing to our 
investigators recommendation, will have done enough to put things right.  
replacement of soft furnishings and bathroom  suite
Due to an error RSA is responsible for, Mr Ts landing  ceiling wasnt tested for 
asbestos when  it should have been.  However,  this mistake was quickly  rectified, and 
the landing ceiling was tested separately. The results of the test were positive, so 
RSA arranged for ceiling to be encapsulated  which is a suitable  treatment  for a 
ceiling containing  asbestos. This took around three  weeks.  
Ref: DRN29384923During this time Mr T says the ceiling  was cracked, and that drying equipment was in 
use in the property. Mr T says he was concerned  about asbestos fibres  being 
released into his property. Because of this, Mr T says he feared  his soft furnishings  
bathroom suite had been contaminated. He has had these replaced and would like 
RSA to reimburse him.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ts concerns here. I can understand his wish to 
ensure that no contaminated  items were left in his house, particularly in light of his 
daughters medical  condition. But from what Ive seen, when RSA encapsulated  the 
ceiling it also carried out an assurance  air test, to check whether any disturbed  
asbestos had contaminated the surrounding  area.  This test was negative, which  
indicates to me that it is unlikely Mr Ts soft furnishings or bathroom suite were  
contaminated by asbestos. 
I also havent seen  any evidence that Mr T approached RSA with concerns about his 
soft furnishings or bathroom suite being contaminated before he replaced  them.  Had 
he done so, RSA would have had the opportunity to consider whether further tests 
ought to be carried  out. If RSA was given this opportunity, it could possibly have 
been determined  whether  any of these items needed replacing.  But as Mr T has now 
disposed of these  items,  its not possible to determine whether it was necessary to 
replace them. 
I note that Mr T has also raised a concern about  potential black mould contamination. 
He reported that some  exposed loft insulation was black and asked RSA to deal with 
it. I can see RSA explained to Mr T that loft insulation can become discoloured for 
several reasons,  and that just because  it was black doesnt mean there was mould. 
However, RSA told Mr T that any potential  mould  issues would be treated during the 
drying process. It also had the insulation removed shortly afterwards and its agent 
confirmed there were no other areas  of mould spores in the property.
Ultimately, I havent seen any evidence that Mr Ts soft furnishings or bathroom  suite 
were contaminated  either by asbestos or black mould. It also doesnt appear that 
RSA was given  an opportunity consider  Mr Ts request  to replace these items, or to 
consider carrying out further testing. So, in these circumstances, I dont think  it would 
be fair to expect RSA to reimburse Mr T for the amounts he has spent in replacing 
these. And as RSA has already paid for the landing ceiling to be encapsulated,  I also 
see no reason that it should pay to have the ceiling removed and replaced   as Mr T 
has requested. 
delays
Mr T is unhappy  with the length of time his claim took to resolve.  I can appreciate  it 
must have  been  frustrating to be out of his home  for several months due to this issue.  
But from what Ive seen  the main cause of delays in this case  was a separate  issue 
of water ingress which Mr T reported  to RSA. 
Mr T reported further dampness  issues which RSA investigated. It discovered that 
this wasnt anything to do with the escape  of water  from beneath the bath, so 
explained it would need to be dealt  with as a separate claim. RSA advised that the 
new issues needed to be identified and rectified  before drying  was completed, which 
delayed the escape of water claim.  
Ref: DRN29384924RSA didnt cause  the secondary water ingress issues,  and its suggestion  that the 
issue be identified and resolved before drying took place seems reasonable. I also 
dont think it was wrong of RSA to consider these incidents as separate claims. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold RSA responsible for all of the delays with the 
escape of water claim.
That being  said,  RSA has conceded that there  were some delays in settling the 
claim. RSA is now prepared to pay £500  compensation for the delays  and frustration 
it has caused Mr T and his family. Considering  it has also paid for alternative  
accommodation throughout the escape of water claim, I think  this amount  of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
having the work completed again
Mr T would like RSA to pay for him to have the repair work to his property  redone. 
This is because the contractor he used to carry out the repairs  wouldnt guarantee 
their work due to the separate issue of water  ingress, discovered after the escape  of 
water. Mr T wants the work to be redone  so it can be guaranteed.
I can appreciate why Mr T would like the work  carried out at his property to be 
guaranteed. But I dont  think  it would  be fair to hold RSA responsible for the fact that 
his chosen contractor wouldnt provide one. I also note, as our investigator did, that 
Mr T has accepted a cash settlement for the damage to his property, in full and final 
settlement of his claim. So, in these circumstances,  I dont think  it would be fair to 
expect RSA to make  further  payments  so that Mr T can have the work  completed 
again
loss of earnings and increased premiums
Mr T would like RSA to pay him compensation for loss of earnings. Given  the nature 
of Mr Ts claim, I think a certain amount of disruption is inevitable.  I appreciate  that 
Mr T needed to attend his property to allow RSAs agents access.  And I can 
understand the added  frustration in needing to do this for the landing  ceiling test  
which shouldve taken  place during  an earlier visit. But I can see that Mr T raised  this 
issue with RSA before he accepted the final settlement, and that it explained his 
policy didnt provide cover for loss of earnings. 
RSA has agreed to pay Mr T a total of £500 compensation for the delays and 
frustration hes experienced throughout his claim.  And I think this amount  is fair and 
reasonable, taking  into account  everything that has happened.
I also wouldnt expect RSA to reimburse Mr T for the increase in his insurance 
premiums. I say this because Mr T has made two genuine claims for two separate  
escapes of water. RSA is entitled to record this information and Mr Ts claims history 
will influence the price  of his future premiums. This doesnt mean RSA has done 
anything wrong.
I said I was intending  to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and to direct RSA to pay him a total 
of £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused him. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision.
Ref: DRN29384925RSA responded  to say it agreed  with my provisional  decision. Mr T provided  several  reasons 
why he didnt agree with my findings.  In summary he said:
The separate issue of water  ingress shouldnt have impacted the time it took to reach 
a settlement on his claim
The policy allows him the choice of using  RSAs contractor or a cash  settlement, but 
RSA insisted on only paying cash
He had no choice  but to accept  the settlement as RSA were  threatening  to remove  
his alternative accommodation.  He accepted the offer in full and final settlement 
under duress
I have dismissed the contractors mistake when initially testing for asbestos
Hes self-employed and the claim has had a huge financial impact  on him due to 
failings of RSA.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the evidence and arguments  already sent to us to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional evidence  and arguments  provided  by Mr T.
Mr T feels I havent  fully taken into account the delays caused by RSA or that the contractor 
made an error when  carrying out the initial asbestos test.
Id like to assure Mr T that I have carefully  considered all of these issues  when reaching my 
provisional decision. I do accept that the delays werent caused solely by the separate issue 
of water ingress. But this issue did delay  things substantially  as it needed to be investigated  
to establish whether it was connected to the escape of water,  and/or another  insured peril 
(something covered  by Mr Ts policy). And as RSA didnt cause this issue,  I dont  think  it 
would be fair to hold it responsible for the time it took to do this.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr T has told me about the issues with the claim and 
the impact on his family. I do understand that this must have been a difficult  and stressful 
time for them. But taking  into account everything  that happened,  I think  £500 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for the issues and delays that were  caused by RSA.
Mr T says RSA should have offered him the choice  between  one of its contractors or a cash 
settlement. From what  Ive seen it did do this initially, but Mr T was reluctant to decide until 
the report on the separate issue of water  ingress had been received.
After further investigations, RSA established that the separate issue  of water ingress wasnt  
connected to the escape  of water. Investigations from the waterboard also failed to fully 
identify the cause. Because the issue wasnt connected  to the escape of water, the resultant 
damage wouldnt be covered under this claim. Because of this, RSA said it was no longer  
prepared to offer one of its contractors to carry out the repairs,  as the property required 
repairs to uninsured damage. Instead, it calculated a cash settlement  for the damage  caused 
solely by the escape of water from beneath  Mr Ts bath. I think this was a reasonable 
position to take.
Ref: DRN29384926Mr T says he was forced to accept RSAs settlement because it was threatening to remove  
his alternative accommodation.  But from what Ive seen, I dont agree. RSA did tell Mr T that 
it would  stop paying alternative accommodation costs by a set date. And while  I dont doubt  
this was distressing  at the time, the timescales  RSA provided were based  on advice from its 
surveyor on how quickly works  could  be completed. I note that where  there were further 
delays or these timescales  proved  inaccurate,  RSA extended the alternative accommodation 
payments.
There was ongoing  communication between Mr T and RSA in April 2018, regarding the time 
it would  take Mr T to source a contractor and have  works completed. RSA initially  felt six 
weeks was sufficient but later amended this after disagreement from Mr T. It sought further 
advice from its surveyor and extended this to ten weeks. Mr T didnt feel this was enough  
time to source a contractor and asked for 12 weeks. He also asked that this be paid at the 
same rate that had been previously agreed  £600  per week.
RSA said suitable  alternative properties  could be sourced for closer  to £1,000 per month. 
But despite  this, it agreed to pay 12 weeks at £600 per week, on the understanding that no 
additional costs,  such as council tax or utilities, would be paid. Mr T accepted  this offer 
alongside the lowest tender amount for the repair works, in full and final settlement of his 
complaint.
In my view, Mr T demonstrated throughout the claim that he was an able negotiator. For 
example, he asked RSA to pay for 12 weeks and suggested the amount he considered 
reasonable. And I think RSA showed flexibility with the alternative  accommodation,  both 
earlier in the claim and during these negotiations. So, taking everything into account, I dont 
agree that Mr T was forced  into accepting  the settlement offer.
Because Mr T accepted RSAs offer in full and final settlement of his claim,  I dont  think it 
would be fair or reasonable to expect RSA to carry out any further works, or to meet the cost 
of doing so.
Ultimately, while there were some  delays and issues during Mr Ts claim, I dont think  it 
would be fair to hold RSA solely responsible for them. And I think £500  is fair compensation 
for the delays and issues which were the fault of RSA.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ts 
complaint in part. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay Mr T a total of £500  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  it has caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Ref: DRN29384927Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2938492