K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  wont pay his full home insurance claim for 
theft and damage  following a burglary  of his home.
background 
In July 2018 Mr S reported a burglary at his property when a number of items  were stolen or 
damaged. Ageas asked Mr S to provide  a list of items being claimed for and any proof by 
way of receipts photos etc. Ageas reviewed the items and discovered that Mr S was claiming 
for damage  to an item which hed already claimed  for in a previous claim. Mr S said this was 
a mistake. Ageas agreed to consider the claim but insisted on Mr S providing  strict  proof of 
ownership of the items by receipts  or valuations.  It wouldnt accept photos.
Ageas paid out the majority of the claim for jewellery, although  there were a number of items 
particularly of costume jewellery  it wouldnt  pay for as Mr S could only provide photos. It paid 
out a total of just over £7,500. In respect  of one item, a necklace  and earrings  set, the loss 
adjuster recorded  it as being 22 carat gold. Mr S was able to provide a valuation and a photo  
but these showed the set as being  24 carat gold. Mr S said this was the item,  but Ageas 
wasnt satisfied that it was the same item as described to its loss adjuster. So, as Mr S 
hadnt provided any proof for a 22 carat set, it declined to pay for it. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in my view Mr S had been  able to provide 
proof for the majority of his items which Ageas  paid out on. I said that Ageas should settle 
the remainder of Mr Ss claim  and pay 8% interest on any settlement from the date of the 
claim. In particular with regard to the necklace and earring set, I said that Mr S had provided 
sufficient evidence of this, and that Ageas should settle the claim for this as well. I further 
said that it should pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. It asked that Mr S clarify the items that he feels  are 
still outstanding  on the claim as there  was some  confusion  over what had been  paid for 
replacement items and what had not.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
strict proof  of the claim
An insurer  is entitled to ask for reasonable proof  of ownership of items and of their value. 
Such proof can consist of receipts, bank or credit card statements, valuations  and photos. It 
would be unusual to ask for strict proof ie only receipts or valuations. This may be fair when 
a consumer is unable  to provide any proof  of a number of high value items or the insurer  
believes the loss claimed for is inconsistent with the consumers lifestyle.
Ageas had no such concerns here  indeed for all the high value  jewellery items Mr S was 
able to provide  strict  proof. Ageas reason for asking for strict proof is that Mr S apparently 
Ref: DRN28300682made a claim for damage to an item which hed previously claimed for in another  claim. He 
acknowledged this and said it was an honest mistake; hed kept the item from the previous 
claim but thought  the damage  had been  caused  in this claim.  Given that Ageas accepted the 
position, I dont  think it was fair to then insist on strict proof for all the items.
My view is that Mr S has been  able to provide proof  for the majority of his items which Ageas 
has paid out on. There were  a number of smaller costume jewellery items, mostly worth  £30 
to £50 although one was worth £300. Our approach, which  reflects  standard  industry 
practice, is to say that photos are usually sufficient proof but, in any event, where  the 
majority of items have been sufficiently  proven,  it would be unfair to insist  on proof for each 
and every small item.  I think that Ageas should settle the remainder of Mr Ss claim,  and pay 
8% interest on any settlement from the date of the claim.   
necklace set
Ageas wont pay out for this set. It says Mr S told its loss adjuster it was 22 carat  gold but 
when he produced the valuation and photo  it was a 24 carat  item. Ageas says Mr S is 
claiming for a different  set  it wont pay out as he had no proof of the 22 carat set.
I can accept that Mr S may have mistakenly  referred  to the set as being 22 carat. But I dont 
think its fair not to allow for the fact that he may have been honestly mistaken. Of the items 
claimed for, about  half were 22 carat and half 24 carat.
Ageas says the valuation is too vague  as it refers to a 24 carat  gold necklace and earring set 
weighing 65.5g.  Whereas its jewellers assessed  the weight as being  70g. I dont  think the 
description is vague especially in conjunction  with the photo which Ageas jewellers  have 
confirmed as showing a 24 carat  gold set.
My view is that it is reasonable  to find that the necklace and earring set described  by Mr S in 
his initial  claim is the same set as evidenced  by the valuation and photo. Ageas should settle 
the claim for the necklace  and earring  set as set out in the valuation and pay 8% interest  
from the date of the claim until payment.
compensation
I think Ageas  should pay to Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by its handling of his claim.
As neither party has any further comments to make on my provisional findings,  those  
findings are now final and form part of this final decision. Mr S should  contact Ageas so that 
the outstanding items  for his claim can be finalised.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
settle the remainder  of Mr Ss claim and add simple  interest*  at 8% per year to any cash  
payment from the date of the claim until it pays.
Ref: DRN28300683settle Mr Ss claim for the necklace  and earring set based on Mr Ss valuation  and add 
simple interest* at 8% per year to any cash payment from the date of the claim until it 
pays.
pay Mr S £100 compensation.
*Ageas Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr S request it, Ageas Insurance Limited should provide him with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2830068