K821x#15complaint
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  (trading as Torch Wealth Management - Torch) 
advised Mrs S to transfer her existing pension. Mrs S has complained about that advice 
and the portfolio of investments Torch recommended.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in June  2019 (copy attached).  
Torch responded  to say that it thought the fairest way to calculate  redress was to take 
account of the position  if Mrs S had remained in the fund she was invested  in her existing 
personal pension.  
Mrs Ss representative told us she accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as Ive had no further submissions 
about the merits of the complaint, I have no reason to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision.
Ive noted the points  made by Torch  about how I proposed that any compensation due to 
Mrs S should be calculated. As I explained in my provisional decision,  her previous pension 
provider has told us it is unable to calculate  what her pension  would now be worth had she 
not transferred.  Further, I also considered that Mrs S may have invested differently, had 
she received suitable  advice.  As such,  it remains my view that the method of compensation 
I set out in my provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable way of calculating the 
loss Mrs S has suffered  as a result of the advice she was given by Torch.
fair compensation
Torch should undertake  the following:
1.Calculate the value  of Mrs Ss original  pension plan as at the date of my final 
decision had it been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income 
Total Return Index.  
2.Calculate the value  as at the date of my final decision  of the portion of the pension 
fund invested  in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the 
FTSE UK Private  Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
3.Establish the portion of the pension fund which remained in cash as at the date of 
my final decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). 
I should make Mrs S aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial 
loss. If there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mrs Ss pension  plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN22383592If Torch is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ss pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ss actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, 
the reduction would  equal  the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs S would have  been  
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Torch should pay any loss within 28 days of being  notified of Mrs Ss acceptance of my 
final decision. If its paid later,  Torch should add simple interest at 8% a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment.
Separate from and additional  to the above,  Torch should pay Mrs S the sum of £300 for the 
trouble and upset  shes  been caused by the advice to transfer her pension  benefits. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited to 
compensate Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22383593COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Economic Financial  Solutions IFA Limited (trading  as Torch Wealth  Management  - Torch) advised  
Mrs S to transfer her existing pension. Mrs S has complained  about that advice and the portfolio of 
investments Torch recommended.
background
At the time of the advice in June 2015, Mrs S was aged 50 and married with no dependants. She 
was employed  as a carer  and had a salary of £12,000 a year. Her only savings or investments were  
£10,000 held jointly with her husband in a deposit account. She had existing pensions valued at 
£53,000. One of these was a personal  pension  plan. 
Torch assessed Mrs Ss attitude to risk as very  high (9 on a scale of 1-10), but this was 
subsequently reduced to 7 (highest medium).
Torch recommended a transfer of one of the personal  pension into a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). The full transfer value would  be invested by a stockbroker under  its discretionary 
management. Torch recommended the stockbrokers  Aggressive  Model Portfolio as a being suitable 
for Mrs S. Torch  also said the new plan was cheaper and offered a wider investment choice and 
flexibility.
The transfer  took place  and £18,323.92 was transferred into the SIPP.  Of this, £16,500 was passed 
to the stockbroker to invest. The remainder was placed in a cash  account.
Between October 2015 and March 2016, Torch was in communication with the stockbroker and 
SIPP provider over concerns  that the stockbroker wasnt investing the funds in line with the model 
portfolio. 
Mrs S complained directly  to this service in August  2016. She said she was advised by Torch  to 
transfer her pension  into a SIPP and for the pension fund to be managed by the stockbroker. The 
stockbroker had invested 98% of her pension in penny  shares, and this has resulted in a severe  
loss. 
As Torch  hadnt been given the opportunity of considering the complaint, we made  it aware of Mrs 
Ss complaint.  Torch responded to say that it was unclear  who should  deal with the complaint. It said 
Mrs S seemed to be complaining about how the pension fund was invested. Torch also said it had 
recommended the Aggressive Model  Portfolio as being suitable for Mrs Ss attitude  to risk, but had 
relied on the integrity of the fund manager for the selection of actual investments.  Torch had no 
influence on this.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint,  and thought it should  be upheld.  He said:
Torch didnt adequately assess Mrs Ss risk profile. He noted  she had no other investments 
and very little savings. Her income was not significant. Yet Torch  recommended an 
investment in the Aggressive Model Portfolio.
The comparison between the existing plan and the SIPP,  as stated in the suitability letter,  
was misleading. When compared like for like, the existing plan projected a higher value 
compared to the SIPP. 
The two plans had similar charging  structures. The existing plan also offered similar levels of 
flexibility to the SIPP and the ability to draw  income  while remaining invested. It offered a 
wide range of investments, as well as the option of discretionary fund management. So 
Ref: DRN22383594there was no need to transfer,  and Mrs S should have been  advised  to remain  in her existing 
plan. 
But the adjudicator also recognised that the stockbroker had failed to invest  in line with the mandate 
of the Aggressive Model Portfolio. Had it done so, this would have produced a better return that if 
shed remained in her existing plan. So she hadnt suffered a loss as a result of the transfer and 
investment advice.
However, not all money was given  to the stockbroker to invest. Some money remained in the SIPPs 
cash account  to cover commission and charges. He calculated Mrs Ss loss on the money  held in 
the cash  account  was £1,806.93, and proposed that Torch should pay Mrs S this sum. It should also 
pay her £300 for the trouble  and upset shed  been caused. 
Torch didnt  agree. It said that if Mrs S had remained in the personal pension, some money would 
have remained uninvested  to cover  charges and fees. As such, Mrs S has not suffered any 
investment loss as a result  of Torchs advice. Torch offered £500 for the inconvenience caused.
On this point,  the adjudicator  replied that his redress did take into account that some of the money in 
the personal  pension (but not all) wouldnt  have been invested. As such, Mrs S had still suffered a 
loss as a result of Torchs advice. He didnt  think Mrs S would accept the offer.  
The matter has now been passed to me for consideration.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, 
relevant codes of practice; and where  appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im aware Mrs S has also complained about the stockbrokers actions.  Thats been the subject of a 
separate claim by Mrs S which is now with the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Although I need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker, to avoid any 
doubt I should  stress  that my decision  here concerns  Mrs Ss complaint about  Torchs  actions and 
the extent to which they have contributed to any losses Mrs S may have incurred.
In my view,  there are three  specific questions I must answer in order to determine  whether Torch 
acted fairly and reasonably  when it advised Mrs S to move  her pension  funds to the SIPP  and invest 
them in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  This also assists me in determining whether  
the transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests  and if not, what I consider  she ought to have been 
advised to do instead:
firstly, was the level of risk of the recommended investment the correct  one for Mrs S? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mrs Ss previous 
pension arrangement?
and thirdly, what alternatives were open to Mrs S to meet her objectives? 
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mrs S?
Mrs S completed a risk profile  questionnaire,  in which she was asked to agree or disagree  with a 
number of statements. Torch  used  this to assess Mrs Ss attitude to risk. According to this, she was 
found to be 9 on a scale of 1 to 10. This was described as very  high risk. 
Ref: DRN22383595Im not convinced  I can place much weight  on this assessment.  Mrs S doesnt seem to have been a 
sophisticated investor, nor had much experience  of investments generally.  I also note Mrs S 
indicated in the questionnaire that small/medium  losses could be tolerated. In my view, this isnt 
compatible with a wish to take a very high degree of risk. 
Im aware that Mrs Ss attitude to investment risk was also referred  to in the suitability  letter  Torch 
sent her in July 2015. This referred to the risk profile questionnaire shed  completed and the 
discussions about this topic that had taken place. But the letter said that Mrs S had selected profile 
7, which meant  her attitude to risk was highest  medium. 
Its not clear how this change in attitude  to risk came about. But regardless of this point, I dont  think 
its likely  Mrs S would have  wanted to put her pension benefits at significant risk. I appreciate that 
she had other  pension  provision, and the fund that was to be transferred  was less than half of her 
total pension fund. But Im also mindful  that Mrs S doesnt seem to have had any other investments  
or savings.  According to the information Torch gathered,  she only had £10,000 held jointly with her 
husband in cash/deposits. So she seems  to have had limited capacity for loss. 
Overall, I dont think the Aggressive Model  Portfolio was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs S. The stockbrokers  factsheet for the portfolio said it would primarily invest in ETFs  [Exchange 
Traded Funds], quality corporate bonds, cash and other passive investments. The stockbroker used 
a risk scale of 1 to 10 and said it would  anticipate the collection of funds within the portfolio to 
expose an investor to a level of risk in the range of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation  as at May 
2015 was 90% international equities and 10% UK government  debt. In my view,  the portfolio posed 
more risk than Mrs S was prepared, or in a position, to take. 
was the new arrangement more or less expensive than Mrs Ss previous pension?
Torch recommended the transfer into the SIPP, in part, because it said this had lower charges than 
Mrs Ss existing plan. Ive not seen evidence  to support this.
Torch arranged a pension transfer report  to be undertaken.  This was a comparison of 
Mrs Ss existing plan with the proposed  SIPP.  It was based on a transfer value  of £19,246.  The 
report included projections of what the two plans could be worth at age 65. But these  showed that at 
assumed growth rates  of 2.5% a year and 5.5% a year, the existing plan would produce a higher 
sum than the SIPP. 
The report also included details of the charges which would be applied to the SIPP. There  was an 
initial charge of £360  and an annual  charge of £300. The report noted  that immediately after the 
transfer the fund value would reduce from £19,246 to £18,116.16, presumably because  of the initial 
and annual  charge. In addition, there would  be an ongoing  charge of 0.65%  applied by the 
stockbroker for the Aggressive Model  Portfolio. 
The report didnt include  any information  about the charges  applying to Mrs Ss existing plan, but I 
understand these were an ongoing service  charge of 0.4%,  plus adviser commission  of 0.50% a 
year. There was also a fund management charge,  but its not clear what this was.  
Overall, there appears to be nothing in the report to show that transferring  into the SIPP  was an 
appropriate course of action for Mrs S. 
Torch also produced a second transfer report on the same day. The second one was based on 
standard plan charges.  But this only showed a higher fund value for the SIPP assuming a growth 
rate of 5.5% a year,  and then this was only £424 greater. 
The suitability report Torch  issued said it had demonstrated  that the charges  for Mrs Ss current  plan 
were more expensive than the SIPP.  But this seemed to be based solely on the result of the second 
report. As the report was based  on standard charges, rather than particular charges, Im not 
convinced this was correct.  And as noted above, any higher fund value was marginal,  at best.
Ref: DRN22383596On balance, Im not convinced  the SIPP was less expensive. 
what alternatives were open  to Mrs S to meet her objectives?
The suitability report notes that Mrs S had sought advice to see if her existing plan was still relevant 
and if there  was any merit in moving to a different provider. But there doesnt seem to be any 
suggestion she was unhappy with her current plan. I note that the fund she was investing in had 
achieved average growth of 6.79% over the previous five years. The fund was said to present  a 
medium degree of risk. 
Mrs S was advised  to transfer to a new plan rather than remain with her existing provider because  
this would  be cheaper. But as Ive explained above, I disagree with this assessment. 
A further reason for transferring into the SIPP was because of the extra  flexibility  such  plans offer.  
The suitability report refers  to the Pension Freedoms which the Government  were introducing. But 
Mrs S was still several years  away from when she would  be likely  to start taking her pension   she 
was intending to do so at age 65. So there was little prospect of her being  able to take advantage  of 
the new freedoms in the short term. 
Also, while a SIPP will generally give access to a wider range of investment funds, Im not convinced 
this was particularly relevant  to Mrs S. I find it unlikely she would  have wanted to invest in the type of 
non-mainstream investments SIPPs  providers  sometimes allow.  Nor do I think  this type of 
investment would have been suitable for Mrs S. 
The option of remaining in Mrs Ss current plan was discounted by Torch. But I think this was a 
reasonable approach that should have  been  considered. As Ive noted, there seems to have been no 
obvious reason to change her current investment  strategy. But if this had been thought appropriate,  
its likely  that the provider would have  had a range of funds available which Torch  could  have 
recommended. 
in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  
Mrs S to move her pension to the new SIPP  and to invest in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model 
Portfolio. My view is that, suitably  advised, Mrs S would  have remained in her existing plan.  
Ive therefore considered how Mrs S should  be compensated for the unsuitable advice, and its here 
that I depart from the adjudicators conclusions.   
Mrs Ss existing pension seems to have been a straightforward personal  pension plan. Theres no 
obvious reason why a proportion of the fund should be held in cash. Plans of this type would  
normally have all, or very nearly all, their monies  invested in funds designed to provide a return. 
Holding money  in cash would usually  only be a temporary measure. 
 
Torch was acting as independent financial  advisers  and could have advised Mrs S on how to invest 
her existing plan. I think suitable advice would have been for Mrs Ss pension  fund to be fully 
invested to maximise her investment opportunities. I have therefore taken  this into account when 
considering what would be fair compensation in this case.
I have set out how I think  Mrs S should be compensated below. 
fair compensation
The stockbroker was instructed to invest using  its Aggressive  Model Portfolio.  Mrs S has complained 
that the stockbroker  didnt actually invest the funds in line with that instruction,  and that as a result  
she suffered  further losses. Torch too has said the majority of the investments the stockbroker made  
Ref: DRN22383597bore no resemblance to Torchs  judgement of the type of investment which  was suited to Mrs S. As I 
said above, theres a separate claim against  the stockbroker and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I 
make no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the transfer to the new SIPP and subsequent intended 
investment in the Aggressive Model Portfolio, as recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable for Mrs S 
in the first place. In my view,  Mrs S should have remained  in her original pension  plan and invested 
in a fund (or funds) that suited her attitude to risk. 
Mrs Ss original pension provider has told us it is unable to calculate  what her plan would have been 
worth had she not transferred into the SIPP.  Further, Mrs S may have been advised to invest  in 
different funds. In the circumstances,  I think it would  be fair to calculate  the value of Mrs Ss original 
plan by reference to the FTSE  UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index. 
The FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index  is a mix of diversified  indices  representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. At the time of the transfer (when 
it was called  the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income Total Return Index) its asset allocation was: 35% 
UK equities, 17.5%  international equities, 32.5% bonds, 5% cash, 5% commercial property and 5% 
hedge funds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  I think this provides a reasonable proxy for the type of returns  that would have been 
achieved with suitable advice. 
Following the transfer,  most of the pension monies were due to be managed  by the stockbroker in 
line with the Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  The adjudicator suggested that a reasonable proxy for the 
aims of the Aggressive Model Portfolio would be the FTSE UK Private Investors  Stock  Market Global 
Growth Index. This was the stockbrokers stated  benchmark for the Aggressive Model Portfolio. I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable method for determining likely investment  performance had 
the portfolios stated objectives and investment strategy been followed by the stockbroker. The 
FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Global Growth Index has two versions  a total income 
version and a capital version.  The redress calculations should use the total income  version of the 
index.
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
4.Calculate the value of Mrs Ss original pension plan as at the date of my final decision had it 
been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return  Index. 
5.Calculate the value as at the date of my final decision of the portion of the pension  fund 
invested in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
6.Establish the portion  of the pension  fund which  remained in cash as at the date of my final 
decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). 
I should  make  Mrs S aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial loss. If 
there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mrs Ss pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mrs Ss pension plan, it should pay that amount  
direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Ss actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
her selected  retirement  age. 
Ref: DRN22383598For example, if Mrs S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs S would  have been able to take 
a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mrs Ss acceptance of my 
final decision.  If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
my decision  to the date of payment.
I understand Mrs Ss representative has raised  expressed concerns about  the method of 
compensation applied by this service in other similar  complaint. Although he has said this doesnt 
comply with the FSA Handbook, he hasnt clarified in what way it doesnt comply.
But as has been explained  to the representative, theres nothing in the Handbook that specifies how 
compensation should be calculated.  In this case, Ive set out the way I think 
Mrs S should be compensated  which I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
her complaint. 
Separate from and additional to the above, Torch should pay Mrs S the sum of £300 for the trouble 
and upset shes  been  caused by the advice to transfer her pension  benefits. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited 
should pay the compensation set out above.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238359