K820x#14complaint
Mr H who has a home insurance policy with Ageas Insurance  Limited complains that they 
didnt complete a proper  inspection of damage caused  to his home by a leak.  He says they 
also made a cash settlement offer that falls short of the true cost of repair  and replacement.
background
Mr H discovered  a water leak behind his bath panel. This had caused damage  to the chip 
board floor and some  staining to the walls and a ceiling. Mr H reported the leak and damage  
to Ageas.  On the request of Ageas, he arranged for two quotes  for the repairs,  both of which 
came to over £4,000.  Mr H says that Ageas attended his house but they didnt look under 
the bath or take any photographs.  Ageas attended the house for a second time to assess 
the damage. However, Mr H who has young children had glued the bath panel  back  on for 
safety reasons.  So access was limited.
Mr H decided that he didnt want Ageas  to complete the repairs. So they offered him a cash 
settlement of just over £2,200.  Mr H declined this offer. He said it fell far short of the two 
quotes that hed obtained. He said Ageas hadnt inspected the area behind the bath panel or 
taken into account   all of the work that was required to complete the repairs  e.g. the 
additional damage that would be caused  to the bath and kardean  flooring while  making good 
the repairs, or the staining. Mr H complained to Ageas.
Ageas apologised for not inspecting the area under the bath.  They said that in addition to the 
cash settlement that they would consider any further  damage  found once the bath panel  had 
been removed  and the repairs  started.
Ageas pointed out that the quotes Mr H obtained  included a new bathroom suite, vanity unit, 
kardean flooring  and carpet, and that those items hadnt been damaged by the leak. They 
explained that the policy didnt cover undamaged property or matching sets.  Mr H wasnt 
happy with this explanation he thought  that the full damage had not been assessed,  so he 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that the cash settlement and the offer to consider any further 
damage found to be a reasonable  one. She said that the cash  settlement reflected what it 
would cost Ageas to complete the repairs. She also explained that the policy  didnt cover 
undamaged property. However  she also explained  that in some circumstances 
(matching sets) it is our approach to ask insurers  to cover some of the cost of undamaged 
property. She didnt that in this case because no matching  sets had been damaged. She 
said that she wouldnt be asking Ageas  to do anything  more.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome. He said that Ageas  had two opportunities to fully 
assess the damage but didnt. Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23021422Ive thought about whether Ageas completed  a sufficient inspection of the damage, whether 
they should replace all the items listed by Mr H, and if the cash settlement they offered was 
fair.
inspection of damage
Mr H has argued  that Ageas didnt inspect under the bath and so may have missed some  
damage. An assessor visited the house in April 2018 and conducted an inspection  of the 
property. The assessor completed a report and describes the damage to the chip board 
below the bath and some staining to a ceiling. No other damaged  was found. The assessor 
took several photographs  of the bathroom, some of which  show the damage under the bath. 
Im satisfied that the assessor inspected the damage, and that it was thorough enough for 
Ageas to prepare  a schedule of works that reflect their findings. I have compared this 
schedule against  the estimates Mr H submitted  and found that they are roughly the same in 
respect of the repairs that are required to be completed. I also note that Ageas have said 
that they will consider  any new damage  found when the bath panel  is removed. I think that 
this offer by Ageas is fair and reasonable in these  circumstances.
replacement of bathroom suite and other items.
Having read the assessors report and looked  at the photographs, Im satisfied that none of 
the items  listed by Mr H were damaged by the leak. No matching sets have been damaged. 
Page 23 of the home policy lists what is not insured  and includes:
 
The cost of replacing undamaged items
None of the items listed were damaged by the leak,  therefore  they arent covered by the 
policy. And so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  to ask Ageas  to pay for the 
bathroom suite or any of the other  items listed.
Mr H has also asked us to consider whether any subsequent damage caused  by the repair  
process should be paid for by Ageas. Ageas told us:
that if they were  employed to complete the work,  any damage they caused 
would be repaired as part of the job 
If further damage is found when the bath panel is removed, they will consider 
further payment.
I think that the offer to reconsider the settlement if further damage  is found at a later stage is 
a fair and reasonable one.
cash settlement offer
 
Mr H has argued  that the cash  settlement hes been offered is insufficient  to complete the 
repairs. He refers to the two independent  quotes  he obtained highlighting there is roughly a 
£2,000 difference between them and the offer made  by Ageas.
I can see that the difference occurs because the independent quotes include the purchase 
and installation of the bathroom  suite,  vanity unit, kardean flooring and carpet. Ageas havent 
included these within their settlement because they werent damaged. 
Ref: DRN23021423Once the price  to purchase and install these  items  is removed from the quotes,  it can be 
seen the two quotes and the cash settlement offer are all within a few hundred  pounds  of 
each other.  And this slight discrepancy  in price  is likely to be attributed to competitive pricing 
offered by the contractor that Ageas use. Therefore the settlement figure and the 
independent quotes are all very close to each other, and I think that means the cash 
settlement offered by Ageas is a fair and reasonable one.
Taking all of this into account  I will not be asking Ageas  to do anything  else. It will be for 
Mr H to decide whether  he accepts  the cash settlement offer, or ask Ageas to complete the 
repairs.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
I make  no award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2302142