K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr T says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen  a copy of Mr Ts credit card application. He had a yes and no choice about  PPI 
and ticked the yes box, authorising Barclays to take the premiums  from his credit card 
account. So I think Barclays made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant  remember this. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T because it was a postal sale.  So it didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr T got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - including what  hes said about commission and 
profit share. But these  points dont change my decision.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Ref: DRN20193282Barclays has given me information  that shows Mr Ts credit card was taken out in 1997and 
ended in 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2019328