K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr F says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI started following  an application Mr F made in 2009  to take a new mortgage and 
move from his existing mortgage provider. The PPI started with the new mortgage.
Mr F has said the PPI wasnt mentioned or explained so he wasnt  given a fair chance  to 
make a choice about taking the cover. He has said there was so much paperwork to sign 
and - as far as the PPI application is concerned - he didnt understand what  he was signing 
and he thought the papers were  for the mortgage.
Ive thought about this carefully.  There was lots of paperwork, but I think I still ought  to give 
some weight to paperwork Mr F signed  when  taking out his mortgage. And I dont doubt that 
Mr F has given us his best recollections,  but the sale was almost ten years ago so I wouldnt 
expect him to recall  everything that happened vividly or in detail. With this in mind,  Ive taken 
into account not only his recollections  but also what is available  from the time of the sale.
To apply  for the PPI Mr F signed a PPI application  form  separate from his mortgage 
application form. He also signed a separate direct  debit to pay for the PPI. So the paperwork 
from the time of the sale makes me think that Mr F asked  for and agreed to pay for the PPI.
According to a summary of recommendations Lloyds produced at the time, Mr F was offered 
advice on various  insurances,  and then asked to make a decision as to whether or not to 
accept any recommendation he was given.  The summary says Mr F turned down advice on 
some insurance areas  like home insurance  and critical illness  cover. And it says Mr F 
agreed to advice on payment protection and then accepted Lloyds recommendation of full 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. I dont know  whether the summary is an 
accurate record of discussions at the time.  But it does show that the sales process that was 
supposed to be followed involved giving  a choice about the PPI.
I cant be sure the sales process  was followed, but taking  into account what Ive said about 
the separate PPI application  papers, what I have overall makes me think  its likely Lloyds 
made it clear  the PPI was something  separate from the mortgage. And I think its likely  Mr F 
was aware he was taking  PPI when he signed forms for it. Overall, I think  its likely Lloyds 
made it clear  that Mr F didnt have to take the PPI and he chose  to take it. But I appreciate 
that this isnt how Mr F recalls the sale.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F, it had to do more and check  the PPI was right for 
him. And Lloyds thinks it did recommend the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess things on that 
Ref: DRN28953302basis  which places  on Lloyds more responsibility  for the sale. But based  on what  Ive seen 
of Mr Fs circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for him. 
For example, Mr F wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover,  so he 
couldve claimed the benefit if something went wrong. And he seems  to have had a need  for 
the cover. The PPI was cover for Mr Fs mortgage, a significant long term liability secured on 
his home.  From what Mr F has told us, he was entitled to only six months full sick pay. For a 
successful sickness or unemployment  claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to twelve  
months  and in addition  to his work benefits. So by helping Mr F with his mortgage  costs, 
the policy benefit would give Mr F greater security  at what could be a difficult  time if he were  
too sick to work or lost his job. And although Mr F has said his family couldve helped  him 
pay his mortgage  instead, other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. And Mr F says more shouldve been done to signpost the PPI costs. But I think  Mr F 
chose to take the cover  so it looks to me like he wanted this type of cover. And, for the 
reasons Ive given  above, it seems like the cover  would have been useful for Mr F if he 
needed to claim. It also looks  like the cover was affordable. Taking  everything into account, I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr F off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr Fs points,  including what hes said about being in a secure job and 
not being worried about his ability to keep up his mortgage payments. But I still think that at 
the time Mr F took the PPI it was possible he might in future  suffer a loss of income due to 
disability or involuntary  unemployment. And Ive explained my reasons for thinking the cover 
couldve been useful  to Mr F  and why what Ive seen makes  me think he chose to take it. 
So, for the reasons Ive given, these  points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr F some  of the commission  he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Fs mortgage  was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr F paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2895330