K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society didnt update its systems with their 
address details correctly  which meant online debit card payments were declined.  
Mr and Mrs A also complain that their replacement  cards  were  sent to the wrong  address 
more than once.  
Mr and Mrs A have  also raised concerns about the time it took Nationwide to respond to their 
complaints and the information theyve been given. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 August 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think this complaint should  be upheld  
beyond the compensation  Nationwide has paid. I invited both parties  to send any additional 
comments or information for me to consider.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  respond to my provisional decision. Nationwide  confirmed  it accepted 
my provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt respond  and Nationwide didnt provide any new information for me to 
consider I see no reason  to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision 
dated 21 August  2019. I still think Nationwide has dealt with Mr and Mrs As complaint fairly 
so Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the compensation Nationwide 
Building Society has already paid Mr and Mrs A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN27732262Copy provisional decision 21 August  2019
Complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Nationwide  Building Society didnt update its systems  with their address 
details correctly which  meant  online debit card payments were declined. 
Mr and Mrs A also complain  that their replacement cards were sent to the wrong address  more  
than once. 
Mr and Mrs A have also raised  concerns about the time it took Nationwide to respond to their 
complaints and the information theyve been given. 
Background
Mr and Mrs A moved in 2016 and Nationwide  says it updated  their profile address  but didnt update 
the details linked to their other accounts. 
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs A experienced problems  making online payments. Mr A contacted 
Nationwide and complained.  Mr A was told systems problems caused the payments to be declined 
and Nationwide paid £75 plus £13 for call costs.  Replacement cards were sent to Mr and Mrs As 
previous address.
Problems making payments continued and Mr and Mrs A complained again  and made  several calls to 
Nationwide about the issue between 13 and 20 December  2017. During these calls Mr A was told his 
address had been correctly  updated. Mr and Mrs A werent able to use their debit cards fully during 
this period because of the ongoing address issues. 
Nationwide responded to Mr and Mrs As complaint  on 6 February 2018 and apologised for errors  in 
updating their address.  Nationwide accepted it had made errors, missed opportunities  to correct the 
information on its system, sent replacement  cards to the wrong address  and provided misleading 
information. Nationwide  apologised for the amount of time spent dealing with the issues raised and 
paid Mr and Mrs A £600. 
In March 2018  a replacement  debit card for Mrs A was sent to a previous address and another 
complaint was made. Nationwide responded on 27 March  2018 and said Mrs As address had now 
been fully updated. Nationwide apologised and paid £250 for the errors it made. 
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs A had some trouble updating their details online with Nationwide after 
they moved. 
Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator initially dealt with Mr As related credit card complaint  at the same time as the complaint 
about the joint account. The case has subsequently been split and this complaint relates  to Mr and 
Mrs As joint account. 
The investigator asked Nationwide to increase  the level of compensation from a total figure of £925 
plus £13 for call costs by £175. Nationwide  responded to say it accepted errors  had been  made but 
thought the existing offer fairly reflected  the impact of its errors on Mr and Mrs A. Nationwide asked to 
appeal the investigators view so Mr and Mrs As complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN27732263My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Please note that in this decision Im only looking at Mr and Mrs As 
complaint about their joint account. Mr As complaint  about his credit card has been dealt with 
separately. 
Ive been reasonably brief in setting  out the background in this case as both Nationwide and the 
investigator have done so at some length. It doesnt appear that theres  a significant difference of 
opinion between the parties involved about what actually happened. And its clear from what  Ive seen 
that Nationwide has made a number  of significant errors that caused  a lot of inconvenience to Mr and 
Mrs A. I havent addressed  every point made by both Mr and Mrs A and Nationwide in this decision 
and have focused on what I think are the key issues. But I want  to assure all parties  that in reaching  
my decision  Ive read and considered all the evidence and information  provided. 
I agree that Nationwide missed various  chances to resolve the address  issues on its systems. 
Nationwides internal  systems  notes show it could have taken  action to correct the information it held 
in November 2017 after Mr A called. As a result, when cards were sent to Mr and Mrs A they didnt go 
to the right address. 
Mr and Mrs A are upset  that their cards have been sent to the wrong address twice.  Theyve 
confirmed that on both occasions they got the cards from a property  they owned but no longer lived 
at. I can understand why Mr and Mrs A were  upset  that cards were sent to the wrong  address. But it 
doesnt appear thats led to a financial  loss and the cards were returned to them.  
Mr and Mrs As cards  didnt  work for all online transactions  because their address  details werent 
consistent across Nationwides  systems. I can see this issue did cause them problems making 
payments online and Nationwides accepted that they had to use their overdraft after Mr As credit 
card was blocked.  But Mr and Mrs A werent  charged for using the overdraft so there wasnt a 
financial loss. I agree  difficulties making online  payments  in the run up to Christmas would  have been 
very inconvenient for Mr and Mrs A. 
In March 2018  a replacement  card for Mrs A was sent to their previous address  and another 
complaint was made. Nationwide responded on 27 March  2018 and agreed that Mrs As details hadnt 
been correctly updated  despite the previous complaint. Nationwide paid a further £250 and confirmed  
the information had been corrected. Again, I appreciate  why Mr and Mrs A were  upset that their 
longstanding issues hadnt been resolved despite the previous complaint. I agree Nationwide should  
have resolved the problems earlier. 
I understand Mr and Mrs A are upset at the time it took Nationwide to respond to their complaints and 
dont believe it met industry deadlines. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Whilst  it didnt resolve 
the underlying  issues raised, Nationwide  did initially respond  to Mr As concerns during  a call, within 
three days of them being raised in November 2017. It paid him £75 plus £13 in call costs. Another  
complaint was made on 13 December 2017. As Nationwide wasnt able to respond quickly  it sent its 
written response on 6 February 2018 which is within  the eight  weeks allowed. The issues raised  in 
March 2018 received  a response during  the same month. I havent  found anything  to show there were 
unreasonable delays in responding to the complaints raised. But I agree there were errors made 
during the investigation into what happened and the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs A. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I agree that there were a significant number of problems  
faced by Mr and Mrs A in relation to their current account and I understand why they are so upset. But 
I have to balance that against the compensation Nationwide has already paid. Nationwide  has paid a 
total compensation figure of £925 plus £13 in call costs  to Mr and Mrs A since November 2017. 
Ref: DRN27732264Ive considered everything theyve told us about the impact of the issues theyve  raised and taken into 
account the length of time the problems went on for. I can see that the problems they faced were  very 
upsetting and meant  they had to spend a substantial amount of time trying  to resolve things with 
Nationwide. However, I think compensation totalling £925 plus £13 call costs does fairly reflect  the 
impact of all the issues raised by Mr and Mrs A. Im satisfied the settlement Nationwide has paid is fair 
in all the circumstances.  As I think Nationwide  has dealt with Mr and Mrs As complaints fairly, I dont 
intend to tell it to increase the level of compensation. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint beyond the compensation  Nationwide 
Building Society has already paid Mr and Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A and Nationwide  Building Society have until 4 September 2019 to send me anything  
further they would like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2773226