K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Target  Servicing Limited mis-handled the partial redemption  of 
their help to buy loan. They say this led to them having to pay more interest on their main 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B bought a new house using the help to buy scheme. Under the scheme,  the 
purchaser of the property  borrows a contribution  to their deposit  as well as a traditional 
mortgage. The help to buy loan is lent by a government agency and the loan is administered 
by Target.
A couple of years  after they bought their property, Mr and Mrs B re-mortgaged  and borrowed 
more money to pay off some of their help to buy loan.
They sent an application form to Target  saying they wanted to make a partial   not full  
redemption and a valuation of their property  was arranged. Based  on the valuation, Target 
sent a redemption letter to Mr and Mrs B. But the redemption figure was for the full amount 
of the loan, 20% of their propertys value,  not the 10% Mr and Mrs B wanted to pay back. 
This letter was sent in July 2018.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive the redemption  letter, though  it seems  their solicitor did. 
The re-mortgage process continued  based  on the redemption figure quoted by Target.
Mr and Mrs B say that in late September they were contacted  by their mortgage lender to 
say that there would be a shortfall  between  what was needed  and what  the new mortgage 
would be. At that point Mr and Mrs B realised that Target had sent a full redemption  figure, 
not a partial redemption.
Mr and Mrs B contacted Target,  and so did the solicitors.  Target  issued a revised  partial 
redemption quote  and started  the process  for issuing a deed of postponement. But this didnt 
happen in time for the re-mortgage to complete on time. It was delayed for a month, with the 
result that Mr and Mrs B had to make a higher mortgage payment that month because  theyd  
reverted to their lenders standard variable rate instead of moving to a new low rate. The 
extra they paid was just over £400,  and they want Target to refund that.
Target didnt agree to pay the extra mortgage payment. But it offered to refund the cost of 
the valuation,  which was £150,  and to pay £50 compensation. Our investigator said it should 
also pay the extra £400, so Target  asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Clearly Target  made a mistake here  and it accepts as much. Mr and Mrs B asked to make a 
partial redemption, and Target sent their solicitors  a quote for a full redemption. So what  I 
have to decide is what  I think is a fair way to put matters  right.
I dont think Target was solely to blame for the delay in Mr and Mrs Bs re-mortgage 
completing on time. It did send the wrong  figure to their solicitor. But the letter  it sent in July 
didnt just state  the wrong figure. It also stated  that Mr and Mrs B would  be redeeming their 
loan in full.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive  this letter.  But it was correctly addressed and while post 
does go astray, thats a comparatively rare occurrence. In any case, their solicitor did receive 
the correct redemption  figure.
Ref: DRN29829162If Mr and Mrs B had told the solicitor their plans, the solicitor would   or should  have known  
that they werent redeeming their loan in full, and would therefore need a deed of 
postponement. But the solicitor didnt  ask for a deed of postponement until after the error 
came to light in late September.  
I dont know what discussions there were between Mr and Mrs B and their solicitor. But it 
seems to me that one of two things must  have happened. Either Mr and Mrs B didnt tell their 
solicitor that they were  only redeeming part of their help to buy loan. Or they did tell the 
solicitor  and the solicitor didnt  notice that Target was asking for full redemption and that no 
deed of postponement  was being arranged.
So, as I say, I dont think it would be fair to hold Target  entirely to blame for the delay  but it 
must take some responsibility, as the delay wouldnt have  happened if it had issued the right 
redemption figure in the first place.
I dont think refunding the valuation fee is the right way forward here. Mr and Mrs B would 
always have had to pay that  delay  or not. I think what the delay cost them is not the 
valuation fee, but the additional mortgage payment that they had to pay.
However, I dont think that figure is the £400 difference between what they had to pay in 
September 2018 on their old fixed  rate and what they had to pay in October  2018 on the 
lenders SVR. If things had gone right, in October they wouldnt have paid the same old 
payment as they did in September,  theyd have had to pay their new monthly  payment a 
month sooner.
So their loss here is not the October  payment minus the September  payment, its the October  
payment minus the November payment. I dont  know what that payment was, so when  they 
respond to this provisional decision I would like Mr and Mrs B to provide a copy of their new 
mortgage offer or statement.  Mr and Mrs B were taking a lower interest  rate, but were 
borrowing more money. So the November payment may or may not be lower than the 
October payment.
If the evidence they provide  shows  that their October payment was higher than Novembers, 
that will represent a financial  loss. And if it shows that November was higher than Octobers, 
that will mean that Targets mistake hasnt in fact caused Mr and Mrs B any loss.
If Mr and Mrs B did incur a loss because their October payment was higher than their 
November payment, I think Target should pay 50% of that amount, to reflect  the fact that it is 
partially, but not wholly, to blame for what happened. And if its already refunded the valuation  
cost  which, as Ive said, I dont think it needed to do  it can offset  that amount.
Finally, the delay did cause Mr and Mrs B some trouble and upset. Target has offered £50 for 
this. But I dont think  this is enough. I think a payment of £200 would  be fair to reflect  Targets  
part in the extra inconvenience the delay caused  and the time they had to spend in resolving  
it.
In response, Mr and Mrs B didnt agree that Target  was only partly  to blame. They  said they 
definitely did not receive the July letter. But in any case, the root cause of what  went wrong  
was Targets error  in asking for the full redemption amount. Everything that happened was 
as a result  of that. As soon as they became aware, they spent a great deal of time trying  to 
put things right, and werent able to do so in time. This shows that they would have  done  the 
same if they had received the July letter. And in any case Target cant  prove it sent the letter 
 and should have sent it by registered mail. They find what  they see as my suggestion that 
they are partly to blame distressing. 
Ref: DRN29829163Mr and Mrs B also said that the valuation  fee refund was for a second valuation  they had to 
get done to have the right redemption figure  issued, because the first valuation  had expired. 
So this refund should stand. Mr and Mrs B said their November mortgage payment  was 
higher, because theyd borrowed more over a shorter term, though at a lower  interest  rate. 
They said the fair comparison was with the September payment, which was on the same  
terms as the October  payment. The new and old mortgages are too different for a fair 
comparison to be made.  
Target considered  the overall redress I proposed to be fair, but queried the effect  of the 
valuation refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again  in light of the responses to my provisional decision.  I still think 
that it would  be fair to say that Target  is only responsible for 50% of any financial loss 
caused by the delay.  The letter from Target was correctly addressed  and Ive no reason to 
think  as Mr B suggested it might  be  that its a later forgery. In any case, theres no 
dispute that their solicitor  did receive Targets letter with the incorrect figure  and the 
statement that it was for a full redemption. The solicitor was acting as Mr and Mrs Bs agent,  
and the redemption statement didnt accord  with Mr and Mrs Bs wishes   which either they 
hadnt told the solicitor  about, or they had and the solicitor didnt spot that the statement was 
wrong. I dont doubt that, as they say, if they had understood  the problem at the time 
Mr and Mrs B would have got in touch with Target to resolve  it. So while  Target is 
responsible for the problem occurring, its not solely responsible for the time it took to sort it 
out.
As for the comparison  to be made, I still think the fair comparison is between  October  and 
November, not September and October. If things had gone right,  Mr and Mrs Bs new 
mortgage would have completed  sooner and theyd have had to make  the new payment in 
October. I take the point  that the two mortgages  arent comparable. But in my view they dont 
need to be  the financial loss here is the extra money Mr and Mrs B had to pay out in 
October compared to what they would have paid out if the new mortgage  had completed  on 
time.
Mr and Mrs B have  now provided their mortgage  statements, which  show the payment they 
made in October  was £1,629.35, and in November was £1,604.21. So their financial loss is 
£25.14, of which I will direct Target  to pay 50%,  plus interest.
I take the point  that the valuation refund  was in respect of the second valuation,  which  was 
only necessary because of the first wrong  redemption statement. So I no longer think  it fair 
for that refund to be offset from the redress. And I still think £200 is fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs Bs trouble and upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B:
£12.57, plus simple annual interest  of 8% running from 1 October 2018 to the date of 
the refund;
Ref: DRN29829164£200 compensation  without offsetting  the £150  valuation refund. 
The redress  should  be paid within 28 days of the date we notify  Target that Mr and Mrs B 
have accepted my final decision. If it isnt paid within that, interest  on the paying refund will 
continue to accrue. And Target should add simple annual interest of 8% running from the 
29th day to the date payment is made.
Target may deduct  income tax from the 8% interest element of my awards, if it considers it is 
required to do so. But it should give Mr and Mrs B the necessary certificate,  if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if theyre entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2982916