K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that MBNA Limited charged  her the wrong balance  transfer  fee when it 
completed a balance transfer.  To put things right shed like it to refund the difference  
between the amount she feels she should have paid and the amount  she was charged.  
background
On 20 June 2018 Miss M applied online for a credit card with MBNA through a third party 
website. Shes explained  she did this because  she saw there was a deal where she could 
get £25 cashback if she transferred £1,000 to the account within 60 days, as well as 0% 
interest on balance  transfers  for 31 months,  and a 1.1% transfer  fee during this promotional 
period.
Miss M wasnt  eligible  for these terms, but MBNA offered her a credit card with 0% interest 
on balance transfers  for 18 months. Miss M says she checked she would still be eligible for 
the cashback and that a 1.1% transfer  fee would apply, and she saw that this was the case. 
So she opened  the credit  card account  and made a balance transfer of £1,000.
Miss M was charged a fee of 3.49%  for this balance  transfer, totalling  £34.90.  She 
complained to MBNA and asked them to refund her £23.90 difference,  as she thought they 
should only have  charged her a 1.1%  fee, which wouldve been £11. 
MBNA said they hadnt made an error, and that Miss M should  have been aware  the balance  
transfer fee for the card shed been offered was 3.49%.  So she referred her complaint  to our 
service.
Our adjudicator felt that MBNA had taken appropriate steps  to advise Miss M that the 
handling fee for balance  transfers was 3.49%  during the promotional  period. Miss M 
disagrees, so the case has been  passed to me to review.
I understand Miss M made  another  complaint  to MBNA when her account wasnt credited 
with the £25 cashback she should have received. MBNA have now paid the cashback,  and 
offered her an additional £50 compensation to apologise for the delay. As this was subject to 
a separate complaint I wont consider it any further  in my decision here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Miss M will be disappointed,  but I 
agree with our adjudicator, I dont think MBNA have made an error here. Ill explain why.
I understand Miss M initially applied for different  terms to the ones she was eventually 
offered. The card she had seen  advertised  had a promotional offer of 0% interest on 
transfers for up to 31 months, with a 1.1%  handling fee for balance  transfers  if they were 
made within 60 days of the account  being opened.  The card she was offered also had a 60 
day promotional offer, but Miss M and MBNA  have different opinions of what this offer was in 
respect of the balance  transfer fee. Miss M believes that a handling fee of 1.1% also applied 
to this offer. But MBNA say that the correct  handling fee was 3.49%.  
Ref: DRN28300102MBNA have  shown us screenshots of the full application process Miss M went through when 
she was offered this credit  card. I can clearly see the time and date stamps  on these 
screenshots matches when Miss M told us she applied for the card, so Im satisfied they are 
as Miss M saw. And I can see that on the screen explaining  the key features of the card she 
was offered it does  state that the handling  fee for balance  transfers  is 3.49%. 
I can also see that the terms and conditions attached to the credit card were clearly 
displayed as part of the application process. Section C.5 detailed  the promotional offers that 
applied when the account was first opened.  Again, I can see this states  the handling fee for 
balance transfers  was 3.49%.
MBNA have  also provided a copy of the credit  agreement  that was in the application. I can 
see that Miss M had to check a box to confirm  she had read this agreement and was 
agreeing to be bound by its terms before  her application could be approved.  Section  3.5 of 
this credit agreement said that the handling fee was 3.49%.
I appreciate Miss M says she saw something  on the application screen  that stated otherwise. 
But Ive looked  at the full application journey she went  through  with MBNA  and I cant see 
any evidence of this or that this was available on the terms she applied  for and agreed to be 
bound by. So whilst I have no reason to doubt  what Miss M has told us, I think  if she did see 
something different  it wasnt information MBNA  gave  her.
I think MBNA took reasonable steps to make it clear  that a handling fee of 3.49% would 
apply. And I think Miss M should reasonably have been aware  from the application, the 
terms and conditions, and the credit  agreement that this was the case, regardless of 
anything else she may have seen before completing  the application. Given  this, Im satisfied 
MBNA charged Miss M the correct  fee for her transfer, so I wont be asking them to do 
anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against MBNA  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2830010