K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  with the way U K Insurance Limited has dealt  with and settled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr T says a third party collided with his stationary car and admitted liability.  The third party 
said Mr T was pulling  out of an entrance gate. Mr T denies he was at fault. Hes unhappy 
with the delay in UKI dealing with his claim and that it settled the claim on a 50/50 split 
liability basis. He wants the claim shown as no fault, his no claim discount restored and £300 
he paid towards his excess refunded. 
UKI says the best offer is a 50/50 liability split as it has no evidence  Mr T was stationary. It 
doesnt have enough evidence to prove  the third party was fully at fault. But it had failed to 
contact Mr T for a five month period and his claim  wasnt  worked  in that time. It has paid him 
£50 compensation  for this.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said there are two slightly  
different versions  of what happened and no evidence to confirm  either.  In light of this UKIs 
approach has been  reasonable and he cant ask it to refund the excess, pay more 
compensation or amend  the information  recorded  about this incident.
Mr T remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. He has reiterated  his 
submissions and version of events.  And he says the other party  shouldve  had a banksman 
or someone  to guide him out. He thinks UKI has acted unethically  and taken the easy  and 
soft option that suits both parties  insurer. It previously said the other party  was to blame and 
it would  go to court. UKI hasnt done  its job correctly.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided  detailed evidence and submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Mr T has very strong views about what happened in the incident and says the other party 
was to blame and admitted this. Hes also provided  detailed evidence  and submissions 
which he says support his view.  But its not our role to decide whos  at fault for an accident. 
That is something only a court  can consider.  We can only look into whether UKI has 
conducted a reasonable  investigation into a claim, when making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy UKI is entitled  to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also 
doesnt need Mr Ts approval of any decision to admit liability,  settle a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. UKI also isnt obliged to take a case  to court  even if its mentioned 
that possibility  at any point or the policy holder would like it to do so. Its also entitled to 
consider the economics of proceeding to pursue or defend the case  and the potential  costs 
and risks of proceeding to court.
Ref: DRN23228832Overall I think  UKI investigated matters  reasonably.  It considered  the vehicles damage and 
what each party said. There werent  any independent witnesses or CCTV. It tried to get the 
other insurer to accept liability and when it wouldnt do so, concluded it didnt think it could 
successfully prove Mr T was stationary as he said or that the third party  was entirely  to 
blame. It decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.
Mr T may disagree  with UKIs interpretation of the evidence and decision to settle the claim 
on a 50/50 spilt liability basis but I dont  think its failed  to comply with the policy terms or 
exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the case  as its 
done. 
UKI has accepted  that there  was a five month delay in it dealing with the claim and 
contacting Mr T. Its already paid him £50 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable.
I understand Mr Ts frustration and strength of feeling. But taking everything  into account I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require UKI to do anything more.  Overall I dont see a 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2322883