K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  unfairly registered a default 
against him.
background
Mr W had an account with RBS with an arranged overdraft facility of £7,500.  In late 2018, 
the account exceeded its overdraft limit and RBS says it notified Mr W that he would need to 
make arrangements  to pay this. When the account  balance hadnt been  repaid, a default 
was registered  on Mr Ws credit  file, in January 2019.
Mr W is unhappy that a default  has been registered  against him. He says that had he known 
his account was overdrawn above  its limit, he would have arranged  to pay this, as he had 
done with other accounts. Mr W also said that his account was previously  in unarranged 
overdraft in late 2016, for around six months. So, in line with the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) guidelines, if RBS was going to default  the account, it should  have done so in 
late 2016.
Mr W also says that he asked  for his account to be closed around the same time, and is 
unhappy this wasnt done. RBS offered Mr W £50 for this point, but Mr W doesnt think  this 
resolves his complaint overall. He thinks that the default  should  be removed from his credit 
file completely or, failing  that, backdated to 2016.
Our investigator didnt  think RBS had acted unfairly  in recording a default  in 2019, as Mr W 
hadnt made attempts to repay his outstanding balance in late 2018. He also thought Mr W 
benefitted from the account remaining open in 2016  as he had continued to make use of the 
overdraft facility. Mr W didnt accept the outcome and so the case has come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. I know this will be disappointing  for him, so Ill explain my reasons why. 
Mr W has raised a number of points in his submissions  and whilst  I may not comment  on all 
of them,  Id like to reassure him I have considered  them all in my review  of this complaint.
Part of Mr Ws argument is that RBS should  have defaulted the account at the point he was 
in an unarranged overdraft for around  six months in 2016. And, as Mr W has noted,  the ICO 
guidelines suggest a default  may be recorded  where  someone  is in arrears for between
three to six months. RBS has provided debt management  notes  which show  that it tried to 
notify Mr W about the outstanding debt by letter in 2016. But it received notification  that 
Mr W was no longer  at the address it sent correspondence to. 
RBS has said it didnt  want to register a default  straight away  without  making sure it made 
efforts to send Mr W the default notice first. I dont think this was unreasonable,  as this 
wouldve given Mr W the opportunity to repay the debt before a default was registered  on his 
credit file. RBS managed  to locate Mr Ws correct address through tracing agents in 
December 2016,  which was approximately six months since the account  had been over the 
agreed limit. Mr W repaid the balance shortly afterwards  in January  2017. So, I cant  see 
Ref: DRN27091372that RBS has treated  Mr W unfairly  here,  and it follows  that I dont agree that the default 
should be backdated to 2016.
Around the time that Mr W paid the outstanding balance, he says he asked RBS to close  his 
account, but it didnt.  Whilst RBS offered  Mr W £50 once it had investigated this part of his 
complaint, its important to note that it didnt accept  that this happened and instead, offered 
Mr W £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Having reviewed  the information available,  whilst I 
appreciate Mr W says he asked RBS to close his account, Im afraid the information Ive 
seen doesnt support  this. And Mr W hasnt been  able to provide anything showing this 
either. So with this in mind, I find it more likely that Mr W didnt ask for the account to be 
closed. And even if he did and RBS didnt  close it, he could have  either asked again or 
chosen not to use the account. But Mr W continued  using the account after the point  he says 
he asked RBS to close it.  
Mr W has said RBS acted irresponsibly by continuing to make the overdraft facility available  
to him, as it was a difficult time for him both personally and financially. Im sorry to hear this 
was a difficult time for Mr W. Having reviewed  the account statements, theres  nothing  to 
suggest that the account was being  managed poorly, or that Mr W was in financial difficulty, 
until it fell into unarranged overdraft again  in late 2018. So given that RBS couldnt  have 
known Mr W was in financial difficulty,  I cant agree  that it acted irresponsibly for continuing 
to make the overdraft facility available to him up until this point.
With the above in mind,  I have then considered whether I think  RBS fairly applied  the default  
to Mr Ws account  in 2019, when the account  exceeded its overdraft limit in late 2018. 
Having done so, I think it did act fairly  Ill explain why. RBS has provided a sample of the 
default notice  it says it sent to Mr W. The letter outlines that there was an outstanding 
balance on the account that needed  to be repaid. I appreciate Mr W says he wasnt aware  of 
this and would have arranged to make  payment had he known. But I think  Mr W knew,  or 
ought to reasonably have known that he was above his agreed limit. And RBSs contact 
notes show that the letter  was sent to the address it held for Mr W. So I think  RBS was clear 
about the outstanding  balance, and what might happen if it wasnt  repaid. And, I havent  
seen anything that suggests  Mr W attempted to contact RBS about making repayment 
before the default was recorded.  
Overall, I dont  think RBS acted unreasonably with how it handled things in late 2016 and 
early 2017.  In reviewing  its actions  in 2018,  Im satisfied RBS did enough to notify Mr W that 
action needed  to be taken on his account,  prior to when the default was added. And I dont 
think it acted unfairly  by recording a default on Mr Ws credit file in early 2019.  Whilst I 
understand the concerns  Mr W has raised  about  how this appears  on his records,  RBS has 
a duty to report accurate information  to credit reference agencies.  As Mr W owed money 
which he hadnt repaid, I dont  think it would  be fair or reasonable to ask RBS to remove, or 
amend, the default on his credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN2709137