K822xComplaint
Mr K has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited has not handled a claim he 
raised under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  fairly.  
Background 
Mr K entered into a contract for the supply and installation of solar  panels (the system) in 
January 2014.  He says the supplier  told him he could expect savings of £300 a year.  
The cash  price of the system was £8,755. Mr K paid a deposit of £100  and K took a loan 
with Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)  for 
the remaining  £8,655. The loan was repayable  at £113.13 a month for 120 months. Interest 
of £4,825.60 would accrue on the loan if it ran to term. 
The savings Mr K says he was promised did not materialise.  The system also ceased 
working  it required  a new inverter which was dealt with via a separate complaint. The 
supplier had ceased trading, and so Mr K complained to BPF and asked for it to remove  the 
panels. 
BPF looked into Mr Ks complaint and said it would uphold  it. It completed a calculation  to 
show how much  Mr K would benefit  from the system over the loan term and how much he 
would pay for them.  Because  Mr K repaid his loan early, the estimated benefits the system 
would produce  were greater than what  he paid.  
Mr K was unhappy with BPFs outcome and so asked this service to investigate.  During the 
course of our investigation it emerged  Mr K had refinanced his BPF loan. He borrowed 
£8,500 from another bank (Bank B), repayable over 60 months in instalments of £158.27 a 
month. The interest rate applied by Bank B was 4.54%, and the total payable if the loan ran 
to term was £9,496.20.  
Our investigator asked  BPF to revise  its offer to reflect the ongoing cost of the system to Mr 
K via the loan from Bank B. BPF agreed, however  Mr K did not accept the offer. He said it 
was unfair  as it was less than the system had cost him and did not recognise that none of 
the promises made by the supplier had been fulfilled. Mr K also said BPFs calculation did 
not take into account the interest  incurred on the loan from Bank  B. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has been passed to me to consider afresh.
Prior to considering  whether the offer from BPF was fair I spoke to Mr K about  whether the 
inverter on his system had been  fixed.  He explained  that this had now been resolved  by 
BPF.
I contacted BPF and asked it whether the offer it had provided to this service took into 
account the period that Mr Ks system  wasnt working due to the faulty inverter. It explained 
that it had paid Mr K £330 for this period and that it would increase this by an additional 
£197.55 to ensure that it fully reflected the Mr Ks loss.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23137112Mr K says that he was told the system would be entirely self-financing.  BPF has accepted  
that the benefits of the system were misrepresented to Mr K and as a result this decision will 
deal with what I consider  to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ive considered whether it would be reasonable to put Mr K back  in the position he would 
have been in if thered been no misrepresentation. However, here I dont think it would be 
fair or proportionate to require the removal of the system from his home.  Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome here is to put Mr K in a position where  the system  is cost neutral over the 
original term of the loan from BPF, meaning that Mr K isnt disadvantaged by the 
misrepresentation. By allowing  Mr K to keep the system, Im satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the loan has 
finished).
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the system.  This methodology is based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr Ks system.
When calculating the estimated future  benefits  of Mr Ks system, BPF has set out that it will 
use a number of assumptions.  These  include the self-consumption rate, electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
By making  the system  cost neutral, Mr Ks monthly payments on his loans wouldve been 
lower. This means that hes paid more each month  than he should have done. As Mr K has 
been deprived of the monthly  overpayments, I would expect BPF to add 8% simple  interest  
from the date an overpayment was made to the date of settlement. 
Mr K chose to refinance his loan to mitigate  the costs of the installation. I consider his action 
in this regard to have been reasonable and it is fair that BPF considers the loan from Bank B 
when determining the redress payable. 
BPF has estimated Mr Ks system will generate £9,167.51 in benefits over the 10 years  its 
loan covered. This means  the payments on the BPF loan shouldve been  £75.56  per month.  
Mr K made eight payments of £113.13,  a total of £905.04, to BPF before settling the loan 
with funds from Bank B. For the system to be cost neutral Mr K shouldve  paid £604.48. Mr K 
overpaid by £37.57 each  month, and so BPF says he should receive a refund  of £300.56 
plus compensatory interest.  
The loan from Bank B was £8,500.  Mr K used £8,000 of this to reduce the balance of his 
loan with BPF. So, 94% of the loan from Bank  B financed the system. This means of the 
£158.27 a month Mr K paid Bank B £148.96 related  to the system.  
Ref: DRN23137113BPF has adjusted the remainder of the estimated benefits (£8,563.03) over the term of the 
loan from Bank B (60 months). It calculates Mr K shouldve paid £142.72 for the part of the 
loan from Bank B relating  to the system. Mr K paid £148.96 each  month for the system. 
Therefore, he overpaid by £6.24  a month.  Or a total of £374.40. 
BPFs offer is to pay Mr K the overpayments made on its loan and the loan from Bank B, 
plus compensatory interest  of 8% on each  over payment amount made (less income tax). 
Ive also considered the issue Mr K has raised about the warranty  he was provided with the 
system. BPF has agreed that as long as Mr K can provide it with a copy  of his warranty, and 
it can be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract, it will honour the warranty. This 
doesnt guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mr K experiences any system 
issues within the original  warrantee period, hed be entitled to raise a claim under the 
warranty and BPF will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
Mr K may be disappointed  with this sum. However,  having examined BPFs calculations  I am 
satisfied they are fair and ensure he suffers no financial loss as a result of the suppliers 
misrepresentation that the system would be self-financing. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ks complaint should  be upheld and that the remedy offered by 
BPF is reasonable.  In full and final settlement of this complaint, I require Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  to:
(a)allow Mr K to keep the solar  panel system,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr K from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of its loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. 
(c)adjust the remainder of the benefits over the term of the loan from Bank B and 
compensate Mr K for any overpayments made. 
(d)where possible, Clydesdale Financial Services Limited should use Mr Ks electricity 
bills and FIT statements to do this; and
(e)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement.
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr K how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs. 
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313711