K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy when they changed their mortgage in 1993.  The plan 
was amended in 2004. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.   
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H only. Mrs H wasnt covered by the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. Having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain  why.
Nationwide shouldve made it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve  got 
Mr and Mrs Hs agreement to buy it. Mr and Mrs H say it wasnt made clear to them  that the 
PPI was optional.  
Looking at the point of sale documentation  I can see that on the mortgage application form 
completed in 1993 Mr and Mrs H ticked to Yes  confirm  that they wanted to buy the PPI. 
They couldve said no if they didnt want to buy the PPI policy. They were then provided 
with information  about the policy and they completed separate  PPI application forms in 1993 
and 2004. So I think Nationwide  made  Mr and Mrs H aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. I dont think using the phrase strongly recommends on the sales literature is 
the same  a personal  recommendation  to start the policy  after having considered their 
individual insurance needs. 
Nationwide shouldve provided clear information  to Mr and Mrs H to allow  them to decide if 
they wanted to buy the policy. Mr and Mrs H say this didnt happen. And it is possible the 
information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. 
But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.
Ref: DRN24668532And Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial commitment.  If Mr H 
couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the 
mortgage was secured  on their home,  Mr and Mrs H couldve potentially  lost their property  if 
they fell into financial  difficulties. 
The PPI policy could  contribute to their mortgage  repayments for up to two years  if Mr H 
couldnt work due to illness or unemployment. This is longer than Mr H would receive from 
his employer if he was unable to work due to illness. And they may not have wanted, or been 
able to, use their savings to repay their mortgage.   
So based  on what I know about their circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve been 
useful to them. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  them buying it. And I 
dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out due to anything that Nationwide mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2466853