K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has unfairly rejected a claim she made 
for damaged solar panels.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in August. In that I said I was intending  to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint,  as I didnt think Allianz  had treated  Mrs C fairly. A copy of my 
provisional findings giving details of what happened  is attached and forms part of this 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has accepted my provisional decision.
Allianz has also accepted it, but says it cant remove all records of the second  claim Mrs C 
made because it needs  an audit trail. It says it has marked  this entry  in the central database 
of records as administrative error. I think thats  a reasonable  compromise.  The intention is 
to prevent the second claim from impacting on Mrs Cs ability  to get insurance going  forward  
or its cost. I think this entry would achieve that. The first claim and its associated costs  will 
be shown, but that reflects  the actual position,  and is fair.
Allianz has written to Mrs C to progress the claim, so this should  bring  things to a close  in 
due course.
Given what both parties  have said theres  no reason  for me to change my provisional  
findings.
Ref: DRN28451262my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Allianz Insurance Plc to:
meet Mrs Cs first claim (for clarity the one from June 2018)
amend the records of the second  (November) claim to show  an administrative error 
made by Allianz
pay Mrs C £250 for the inconvenience  its caused
reimburse Mrs C any additional energy costs shed had since  making the second 
claim, if she provides  evidence of the extra costs
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28451263Copy of provisional  decision August 2020.
complaint
Mrs C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has unfairly rejected a claim she made for 
damaged solar panels.
background
In June 2018  Mrs C had her normal service visit for her solar panels. The engineer reported some 
damage to the installation and thought it might have been caused by lightning. Mrs C contacted  
Allianz to see if she could make a claim. Allianz sent an engineer out to look at the damage,  and he 
said it couldnt  have been lightning  damage because the solar  panels  were still working   albeit not as 
well as they should have  been. He thought  a lightning  strike would have caused more extensive 
damage, and suggested it was more  likely the panels had been damaged by high winds or debris 
hitting the panels.
Allianz said it wouldnt  meet the claim,  and Mrs C appeared to have accepted this.
In November 2018 Mrs C found glass from the solar tubes on the ground  and again  she contacted 
Allianz to ask that it consider covering this damage. Allianz said that as Mrs C hadnt had the original 
damage repaired, it wouldnt meet this second claim.
Mrs C complained, saying she thought the first decision  in June 2018  had been incorrect, and her 
solar panels  had been  damaged by lightning then. She thought that if that claim had been fairly  met, 
the second incident wouldnt have occurred.
Allianz reviewed the decision from June  2018 but still didnt think  the damage was shown to be 
caused by lightning. Nor did it think there had been high enough wind speeds in either  May or 
November 2018 to have  caused damage to panels that werent already deteriorating  or in the case  
of November 2018, already  damaged.
Mrs C brought her complaint  to us, but our investigator didnt think  Allianz had done much wrong. She 
didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld.
Mrs C, represented by Ms T, remains  unhappy  about this, and says that, although  the panels were  
about 15 years old, they should have  a lifespan of 25-30 years, so there was no reason  why they 
should have deteriorated because of wear and tear. She remains convinced  there was lightning  
damage in May 2018.
Ive been asked  to decide this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending  to uphold this decision and Ill explain why.
It might help if I explain  that Mrs C appears to have a solar  panel system that is made up of glass 
tubes (generally 20 to 30) which are sealed (the solar collectors). In a very simplified summary, the 
tubes heat up in sunlight and the energy is transferred  to Mrs Cs water supply to produce hot water.  
Inside Mrs Cs home is a solar controller which is wired  to the pump on the hot water tank. The 
controller  as youd expect   switches the pump on and off dependent on the input from the collector.
In mid 2018 Mrs C told Allianz that a regular  service on her solar panels showed some damage. Her 
engineer thought it might  be lightning damage to the solar collectors  but didnt say when this might 
Ref: DRN28451264have happened. When Mrs C approached Allianz to make a claim for this damage it sent its own 
engineer out to look at the damage. I should say at this point  that both engineers seem  to have the 
same experience  in that they both work in the solar panel business.
Allianz engineer said the damage was definitely not caused by lightning  if it had been, hed expect 
to have seen more  extensive damage such as burn out on the system   but in fact the system  was 
still working. He thought  the damage to the tubes could have been caused by high winds  or debris  
falling on the panels.  Those two causes of damage would likely fall under either  storm or accidental  
damage, both of which are included in Mrs Cs policy.
I think  generally that an insurer is entitled to rely on the opinion of the experts it commissions to look 
at damage. So Allianz could rely on what its engineer  said when deciding whether it could fairly say it 
wasnt going to meet Mrs Cs claim. I think, to a certain extent, Allianzs  response was fair  in that it 
doesnt seem  to be lightning that caused the damage in mid June 2018. Indeed, if it had been 
lightning damage, Id expect to see that Mrs Cs electrical  equipment in general had been affected.  
It doesnt  look as though Mrs Cs solar panels were  damaged  by a storm  there werent  any storm 
conditions in the month or so before  Mrs C made her claim.
Ive also considered whether  the damage  was caused accidentally, as the engineers description of 
what he thought might have happened (debris hitting the tubes) sounds like accidental damage. Our 
investigator didnt initially consider this potential cause of damage, so weve made some further 
enquiries.
Accidental damage isnt defined  in the policy  terms and conditions, but its generally accepted that its 
something that happens suddenly and unexpectedly. Debris falling on the tubes would  fit that 
description. And this would also explain why Mrs Cs system continued to work, albeit at a lower level.
We asked  Allianz  if it had considered whether  the damage was caused accidentally. Allianz  says its 
engineer didnt think  there  was a valid cause of damage  but cant  comment further because  the 
initial claim was so long ago. However, I think the comments made  by Allianz engineer in mid 2018 
carry more weight than those made very recently  in part because thats when the evidence was 
actually seen  by the engineer.
I currently think the tubes were most likely damaged  accidentally, although we dont know exactly 
when. I accept that wed normally  expect a claim for accidental damage to be made  very shortly after 
the damage occurred. But here it appears  Mrs Cs system still worked,  albeit  not as well. And, given 
Mrs C is elderly,  its understandable that she didnt examine the solar  panels  on a regular basis and 
make a claim sooner  than she did.
I currently think Allianz should have met the claim Mrs C made  in June 2018.  If it had done that, then I 
think its fair to assume Mrs C would have had the repairs done.  Then Allianz  would have been able to 
fairly say if the current  claim  should be met, rather than relying on the fact that no repairs were  carried 
out in mid 2018 as a reason  to not meet the current claim.
Im intending  to ask Allianz to carry out any necessary repairs or replace Mrs Cs solar  panels  if thats 
the only option. Thats what I think  should have happened in mid 2018  and if that had happened the 
current claim in late 2018 might not have been made. So Im also intending to ask Allianz to remove 
the second claim  from its records  of claim,  and any central database it might  have recorded the claim 
on. That means  Mrs C wont be affected  by the timing  of the second claim  going forwards.  
As Allianz has also unnecessarily delayed  the repairs Im going to ask it to pay Mrs C some 
compensation for the inconvenience shes had, and I think £250 is fair. Im also inclined to ask Allianz  
to pay an amount equivalent  to any extra energy  costs  Mrs Cs had since the date of the second 
claim, as shes been without  the contribution  the solar panels would normally make to her energy use. 
Mrs C will need to send us some  evidence  that shes had higher bills before I can ask Allianz  to pay 
this.
Ref: DRN28451265my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and order Allianz Insurance Plc to meet Mrs Cs first claim (for 
clarity the one from June  2018), delete  records of the second (November) claim and pay her £250 for 
the inconvenience  its caused.  It should also reimburse Mrs C any additional energy  costs shed  had 
since making the second claim.
Ref: DRN2845126