K821x#15Complaint
Mr L says Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about an instalment loan that H&T provided to Mr L in May 2018. Our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  with 
his loan. H&T didnt  agree with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was passed  
to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
done so, I think  that H&T should reasonably have seen  that Mr L was unlikely to have been 
able to make  his payments in a sustainable  manner when it provided  this loan. I say this 
because the credit check H&T carried out showed  Mr L had opened in excess  of 20 new 
credit accounts in the period leading  up to this loan being taken.  
In these circumstances, I think H&T ought to have to get a better  understanding of Mr Ls 
actual financial circumstances before lending to him, as there was a realistic possibility that 
Mr L already had much more debt than he was able to afford.
I think that if H&T had probed  into Mr Ls circumstances further,  as it wouldve been 
proportionate to do, it would have seen that Mr L was borrowing from a number of different 
short-term lenders in a futile  attempt to make ends  meet and meet  his commitments to 
Ref: DRN20920722existing creditors. And, in my view,  this would more likely  than not would have shown H&T 
that Mr L was unlikely to be able to repay  this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. So overall Im satisfied that proportionate checks would more likely  than 
not have shown H&T that Mr T was unlikely to be able to sustainably  repay this loan.   
Mr L had to, or is being expected to, pay interest and charges on a loan that H&T shouldnt  
have provided  him with. So I think that he lost out and H&T should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  H&T needs to do
remove all interest and charges applied to Mr Ls loan from the outset. The payments 
Mr L should then be deducted from the £750  originally lent. If the payments made are 
more than £750 any extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments, should there be any, from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
any adverse information recorded as a result  of this loan should be removed from   
Mr Ls credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give   
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Id also remind H&T of its obligation to exercise  forbearance should  an outstanding balance  
remain after all adjustments  have been made and it be the case that Mr L is experiencing 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint. Harvey & Thompson  Limited  
should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092072