K820x#14complaint
Mr B says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed in IT support. There is some  discrepancy between who his 
employer was set out in the questionnaire  and on the application form when  he applied for 
the PPI. But I dont think it matters as I think the roles were  similar. Mr B has said he was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any savings  he could use to repay his credit card 
should he be unable  to work.  Mr B said he would have received death in service benefit and 
was entitled to redundancy pay. Mr B has said he was in good health at the time of the sale 
although he mentioned hed had chicken pox in 1978 when he was a child.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment as well as life cover  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 3% of Mr Bs credit  card balance  
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost 68p per £100  of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
MBNA has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account  closed  in March 2007.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
MBNA failed to meet the sales  standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means MBNA should  have  
told Mr B about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means MBNA should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN29794742The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
MBNA, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN29794743The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like MBNA  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account  
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
MBNA was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If MBNA  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether MBNA gave  Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
MBNA, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN29794744did Mr B know  he had a choice?
MBNA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
MBNA has provided a copy of the application  form Mr B completed  when he applied  for his 
credit card and the PPI through the post.  As it was a postal application Mr B would have 
likely completed the application in his own time and at his own pace.  On it, Mr B has 
completed his details and theres a section about  PPI. The box Yes has been ticked. Next 
to the Yes box theres an equally prominent  box No which Mr B could have chosen  if he 
hadnt wanted to take out the PPI. Mr B has signed the form and dated it. As he was taking 
on a new financial commitment, I think its likely he would have read the form he was signing 
and on balance would have realised he was choosing to take out the PPI.
I also think the PPI would have appeared as a separate entry on his credit  card statements 
and if he wanted  to question the cover he could have done so at any time. The evidence 
doesnt show Mr B did this.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did MBNA  provide advice?
MBNA says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr B said on his questionnaire to this 
service that he applied for the PPI over the internet. He didnt say whether it was an advised 
sale or not. Its understandable if he cant remember exactly what  happened given the sale 
happened nearly nineteen years  ago. Looking at what happened  when MBNA  sold Mr B the 
PPI, Im not persuaded  that it provided advice.  As I have explained this application was 
completed by post and I dont think its likely  Mr B spoke to anyone about the PPI.
This means  MBNA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr B. Instead,  it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr B to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
MBNA has provided us with Mr Bs application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says he wouldve more  likely received, 
including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Mr Bs.
Looking at the information provided to Mr B at the time,  I dont think MBNA gave Mr B the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against unemployment, accident and sickness  and life cover.  It also 
informed Mr B the policy cost 68p per £100 of the statement balance and it was designed  to 
protect his ability  to make repayments to the MBNA  credit card in the event  he was unable  to 
work due to accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment.
Ref: DRN29794745The information provided would have given Mr B a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was MBNAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Bs attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded MBNA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr B, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim  
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that MBNA  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think MBNA gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that MBNA  ought to have done either.
what effect did MBNAs shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that MBNA didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr B. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had MBNA done things properly. 
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
Ref: DRN29794746As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application. But, I accept that MBNA didnt make clear the on-going cost 
information. So while Mr B didnt know some things, the ultimate  position in the event  of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related condition  whether diagnosed or not which  Mr B knew  about, or should 
have known about at the start date or which hed seen or arranged to see a doctor  
about during the 12 months  immediately  before  the start date of the policy;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be totally 
unable to carry out the duties of his normal work, and not doing any other work 
including temporary work  which  in the insurers view he is or may reasonably  become 
qualified for in view of his training education  and ability.
 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. Whilst he told us about chicken pox 
he had when he was a child this is not something  that would have likely been an ongoing 
medical condition.  So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN29794747I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking out the policy,  Mr B, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job but 
also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would do. And I accept it may have given 
him pause for thought   although  given Mr Bs circumstances and the limited other means  
he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt  working,  on balance, I still think  he would have 
been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and it looks like he didnt have any means of meeting his 
credit card repayments if he was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness. He told us he 
would receive death  in service benefit, but this would only be paid out in the unfortunate 
event of death and did not cover the same thing as PPI. And the policy would have enabled 
him to use any redundancy pay he got for other useful and important expenses if he lost his 
job. So overall,  I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding his employment benefits. And in those circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that he would have taken  out the policy in any event.   
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN29794748proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude MBNA  should pay Mr B compensation,  as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks MBNA  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
MBNAs statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why MBNA failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  MBNA gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find MBNA negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr B and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that MBNA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN29794749My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2979474