K821x#15complaint
Mr M, represented by a claims management  company (CMC),  complains that Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr M received  25 loans from Sunny between October 
2015 and November 2016.  
Mr M says that at the time of the loans he was in spiral of debt meaning he had to borrow 
again to make his repayments. He says that proper affordability checks  werent  carried  out 
before the loans  were provided  and that the loans meant his financial situation deteriorated 
further.
Sunny says that before the loans were  provided  creditworthiness and affordability checks 
were carried  out. It says based on the information  it gathered it was responsible  to provide 
the loans to Mr M.
Our adjudicator didnt  think hed not seen  enough  to say it was unfair  that loans one to five 
were provided. However he thought that by the time of loan six Mr Ms overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested he had become  persistently reliant on short-term loans. He therefore  
thought that this complaint should be upheld in regard to loans six to 25.
Sunny accepted our adjudicators view. It said Mr M hadnt repaid more  than he had 
borrowing and so no refund was required.  It said that it would write off the outstanding 
balance if Mr M accepted the decision.
Mr M didnt  accept the decision. Therefore  this complaint has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income  and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
Ref: DRN23103062the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments  were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I have looked  through  the information gathered before the first four loans were  provided and 
I think this was sufficient  given the size of the loans and repayments compared  to Mr Ms 
income. Based on the information  gathered the loans  appeared affordable and so I agree 
with out adjudicator that there isnt enough  to say these loans shouldnt have been provided.
By the time loan five was provided, I think that further checks  should  have been carried  out. 
Mr M had taken out five loans in close succession  and I think it would have been reasonable 
to expect Sunny to have carried out further  checks to ensure  the loan was affordable.  
However based on the information I have seen I am unable  to say whether better  checks 
would have shown  the loan shouldnt  have been provided. Therefore I agree that there isnt 
enough to say this loan shouldnt have been  provided to Mr M.
By the time loan six was provided, I agree that Mr Ms pattern of borrowing was such  that it 
suggested he had become persistently reliant of short term borrowing. Mr M had taken out 
six loans in less than two months  and the sixth loan was for a much  larger  amount than the 
previous loans. Although Mr Ms seventh  loan was for a lower amount, the following loans 
didnt decrease  significantly in amount and didnt suggest that Mr Ms dependency on the 
loans had changed. Because of this I dont think loans six to 25 should have been 
considered sustainably affordable.
Overall I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  six to 25. Sunny agreed to uphold  loans six 
to 25 and carried out a calculation to reflect this. It found the amount repaid was less than 
the amount borrowed and offered  to write  off the outstanding balance after the refunds had 
been applied.  I find this reasonable. 
Ref: DRN23103063my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  six to 25. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on loans six to 20 and loans 22 and 
23;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest from loans 21, 24 and 25 and ensure all payments 
towards these loans are used  to reduce the principal amount;
the number  of loans taken from loan six means  any information recorded about  them  
is adverse. So all entries about  loans six to 25 should be removed from Mr Ms credit 
file.
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) offered to write off the outstanding 
balance after the refund had been applied to reduce  the amount. Sunny should determine if 
this offer still stands  and take any relevant action. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken 
off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends  to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr M owes,  it 
must do this after tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2310306