K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt  treated her fairly in its response to her 
financial situation and mortgage arrears.
background
The monthly repayments on Miss Fs Santander  mortgage are in arrears.  In April 2018  she 
became unable to work owing to illness. She says she informed Santander that she wouldnt 
be able to make her monthly mortgage  repayments  of about £400  as she didnt receive sick 
pay. She said she could  pay about £200  and did so.
She says that as soon as she went back to work she started making  the monthly repayments 
with an additional  £100 per month to clear  the arrears. Nevertheless Santander was 
threatening court proceedings for possession. Shes  been co-operating with Santander and 
its solicitors but is finding it difficult to get through to anyone and is being passed  back  and 
forth between Santander and its solicitors. Santander isnt offering any help or solution.
Santander said there was a history of arrears going back to 2008 and it had shown 
considerable forbearance. The current overdue balance was more than 16 times the monthly  
mortgage payment.  One of the triggers for referring  to litigation was arrears  amounting  to 
more than three times the monthly  mortgage payment.
Santander said a file note dated 25 January  2018 recorded that a warrant  of possession  was 
to be executed as Miss F had broken the current payment arrangement.  This was the ninth 
warrant and there were arrears of about  16 months.  However, Miss F had made the January 
payment, albeit late, and the warrant was cancelled.
However no payment  was received  in April 2018.  Owing to Miss F being in breach of the 
court order  and the very high level of arrears further  litigation action had been commenced. 
But this was now on hold for the duration  of the investigation by this service.
Our adjudicator thought Santander had acted fairly and didnt recommend Miss Fs 
complaint be upheld. She said Miss Fs mortgage account had been  in arrears for some  time 
before the illness in April 2018. Santander had agreed numerous payment arrangements 
with her to bring  the account up to date.
The adjudicator said that up to January 2018  there  had been nine possession  warrants  and 
the current payment  arrangement for the outstanding arrears was also broken, with arrears 
of some 16 months. Litigation had been  a last resort and Santander hadnt acted 
unreasonably. It had shown Miss F considerable forbearance.
Miss F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. She said she hadnt 
had any response  to the way shed been  dealt  with, in court  and on the phone,  as she was 
unable to get copies of these things. One of the evictions had been thrown out by the judge 
owing to bullying  and all costs were removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25318592I can see from the court documents  that the order for possession was made  on 4 June 2013. 
The most recent events  shown in the documents provided are:
29 May 2018
court order  giving permission to enforce  the order for possession;
1 June 2018 
letter from Santanders solicitors to Miss F noted that the arrears  were then just over £6,000;
8 June 2018
court order:  noting  the high level of arrears  the court is satisfied that the terms of the 
suspended possession order have been  breached  and [Santander] is granted  permission to 
issue a warrant for possession forthwith .
Miss F says she wrote to Santander on 24 April 2018 complaining that she had received no 
response to various  calls made to Santander  and its solicitors.  She says the calls were  made 
from work as they could  be recorded and she was awaiting  the recordings. However 
Santander denies receiving any contact from Miss F and says its solicitors  have no record  
either. 
No call recordings have been  supplied to this service and the last information received  is that 
at 13 November 2018 the arrears were just over £7,500. None of the court  orders supplied 
show a possession warrant being refused owing to bullying  by Santander.
Having reviewed all the evidence Im not persuaded that Santander has acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Miss F.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2531859