K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI)  didnt  cancel her motor insurance policy 
when she cancelled her direct debit and tried to cancel the policy  online. She wants it to 
withdraw its cancellation charge. 
background
Miss Ks car was scrapped and she cancelled the direct debit for her policy.  UKI emailed her 
about this and Miss K emailed back that shed cancelled the policy. But this wasnt  
progressed by UKI and a further charge was incurred for time on cover. UKI said Miss K had 
to phone it or write to it to cancel  her policy. It offered to backdate the cancellation to the 
date the car was scrapped if Miss K provided  evidence of this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought the 
policy said that Miss K had to phone or write  to UKI to cancel her policy, not just cancel  her 
direct debit. She thought Miss K had replied to its emailed newsletter.  But this went  to an 
undeliverable address  and Miss K would have had a response saying this. UKI confirmed 
that it hadnt received any instruction from Miss K to cancel her policy. She thought UKIs 
offer to backdate the cancellation was fair and reasonable. 
Miss K said shed made  two attempts to cancel  the policy. She asked  for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss K feels frustrated by what  she sees as a lack of customer service  
and UKIs  red tape.  She said her complaints  not about the money, but about the principle.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that UKI explains how to cancel  a policy on page 27 of the policy booklet:
You can cancel this policy at any time by telling us either over the phone  or in 
writing. Cancelling  the direct debit  instruction  does  not mean you have cancelled the 
policy.
This was repeated  on its website. Miss K said she cancelled her policy in three ways. She 
said she cancelled her direct debit and recalled that she may have tried to cancel her policy 
online. She replied  to an emailed newsletter from UKI. And then she said she returned a 
cancelled direct debit  mandate to advise UKI. 
But the policy terms and conditions say that Miss K must call or write to UKI to cancel her 
policy. I think its clear  on the policy document and on UKIs website that cancelling the direct 
debit doesnt mean  that the policy would be cancelled. 
Ref: DRN23936862UKI has explained that Miss K couldnt  have cancelled her policy online. If she was using 
webchat she would have been prompted to speak to an advisor. Ive not seen any evidence  
that she did this. 
I can see that Miss K replied to an emailed newsletter  from UKI saying  that shed scrapped 
her car and cancelled her policy.  But there  was an instruction on the newsletter not to reply  
to it but to use other contact means. I can also see that Miss K would have received a non-
delivery notice when she replied to the email. 
When Miss Ks direct debit cancelled, UKI sent her another direct debit mandate. Miss K 
said she sent this back with a note saying  her car had been scrapped. But I cant  see from 
UKIs file that UKI received this. 
I think UKI explained reasonably clearly what Miss K needed to do to cancel her policy. I 
cant see that Miss K followed these  instructions.  So I think  UKI wasnt aware that Miss K 
wanted to cancel her policy.  So the policy ran until UKI cancelled  it for non-payment. It 
applied a charge for the time cover was provided. So I cant say that UKI acted incorrectly.  
UKI offered to backdate  the cancellation of Miss Ks policy to the date her car was scrapped 
if she provided evidence  of this. I can see that this might be difficult for Miss K to do as she 
was moving house  at the time. But I think UKIs  offer is fair and reasonable and I expect UKI 
to honour this if Miss K provides the needed  evidence. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2393686