K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Unum Ltds decision to terminate his claim under  his employers 
group income protection policy.
background
Mr H was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
Unum. The policy would  pay benefit in the event that Mr H was unable to perform his 
occupation because  of illness or injury.
In October  2014, Mr H stopped working  because  of anxiety and depression.  He made a 
claim under his employers policy. Unum  accepted  the claim and began  paying benefit. In 
June 2015, Unum terminated the claim because it was satisfied that Mr H was able to return 
to work on a full-time basis.
In January 2016, Mr H stopped working  for a second  time due to anxiety and depression.  In 
June 2016, he resumed full-time working.
In September  2016, Mr H stopped working for a third time due to anxiety and depression. In 
March 2017, he resumed full-time working.
Mr H made  a linked  claim under the policy for his second and third period of absence  but 
Unum declined both claims. It considered that Mr H was simply suffering from workplace 
stress and wasnt satisfied that he was medically prevented  from performing his occupation.
Mr H appealed against Unums decision but it wouldnt change  its position. Mr H therefore 
referred his complaint to us.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be not upheld. She was satisfied  
that Unum had acted  fairly.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings.  While  he acknowledged  that he frequently  
referred to workplace issues in discussions with his GP, he thought too much weight had 
been placed on this. He pointed to other  medical evidence, including  that from the talking 
therapy service to which hed been  referred, which he believed  showed hed been suffering 
from a debilitating  medical condition which prevented  him from working.  
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy requires that, for benefit to be paid, Mr H needs to be unable by reason  of illness  
or injury to perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation.
Mr H has a long history  of anxiety and depression. In January 2016, he visited  his GP and 
reported being anxious and stressed.  He said he had a highly stressful  job and there  was a 
long discussion about his difficulties at work and home. His GP signed him off for twelve 
Ref: DRN21042342days. Following that period, he was certified as may be fit for work. He continued to see his 
GP on at least a monthly basis and work issues  were regularly discussed. In March 2016, he 
reported that he was working  nearly  normal working  hours from home. In April 2016,  he 
reported that hed been struggling to work  because his girlfriend had been unwell but in May 
2016 he once  again reported that hed been able to manage some work. At the start of June  
2016, he said he was back  to work virtually full-time.
Mr Hs GP subsequently wrote to confirm that, in her opinion,  Mr H had suffered a relapse of 
his underlying anxiety with depression.
Mr H also referred  himself  to a talking therapy service. He underwent  an assessment in 
February 2019 which found that he was suffering from moderately  severe  low mood  and 
moderate anxiety.  The service provided  regular  telephone support for Mr H and regularly 
monitored his low mood and anxiety. In July 2016,  by which  time Mr H had returned to work,  
his low mood had improved so that it was rated moderate but his anxiety  was largely 
unchanged.
Unums company medical officer (CMO) considered  that, while Mr H may have suffered from 
a recurrence of depressive symptoms, his absence  was due to situational stressors,  namely  
difficulties he was facing  at work and home.  He improved to the extent that he was able to 
work almost normal hours from home  within two months. This was achieved without any 
changes to his medication and with the help only of the talking therapy service. The CMO 
noted the mental health assessments carried out by the talking therapy service  but pointed  
out that these  scores  were based  on self-administered  questionnaires  and said these 
couldnt be relied on alone  to diagnose  a depressive illness or anxiety disorder; a full mental 
state assessment  would also be required  and Mr H hadnt undergone this. The CMO  
considered there was insufficient evidence to show that Mr H was medically prevented  from 
performing his occupation during  this time.
I consider this period of absence is borderline  but I am inclined to agree with the CMO. Mr H 
was feeling stressed  and anxious at his situation  but he was nonetheless able to work 
almost normal  hours from home  some  two months  in to his five month period of absence. I 
dont find that he has presented compelling medical  evidence to support  that he was 
suffering a medical limitation to his functioning  to the extent that he was unable to work.   
In September  2016, Mr H returned to his GP complaining  of work-related pressure with 
deadlines. His GP certified him as unfit to work  due to anxiety  with depression  and 
recommended that he again contact the talking therapy service. Mr H continued  to speak to 
his GP on a regular basis and she continued to sign him off work,  noting that he had poor 
concentration and felt anxious about work.  Mr H was assessed by the talking therapy service  
in October 2016  and was found to be suffering  from severe  low mood  and moderate  anxiety. 
He began a new course of talking therapy in November 2016. He began working from home  
in January 2017 and was back to full-time working  in March 2017  by which time his low 
mood rating had improved  to mild and his anxiety score had also improved, albeit it was 
still in the moderate category.
Unums CMO thought  the evidence in support of this period of absence was minimal.  Most  of 
the consultations with the GP were  over the telephone and there was no discussion of 
Mr Hs level of functioning.  The CMO  repeated  his concerns over the limited reliance which 
could be placed  on the self-reported assessment scores.
Ref: DRN21042343Again, I tend to agree  with the CMO. I dont  think Mr H has shown that he was so restricted 
by his condition  that he was unable  to perform his occupation during this period  of absence.
Mr H considered that his two absences were for the same reason as his earlier  claim. He 
has questioned  how Unum could have accepted his earlier claim and yet not agree to pay 
benefit for these further periods of absence. However, Unums CMO considers the earlier  
episode to be more  intense in its impact  on Mr H, which  consequently demanded a more 
intense response in terms of his treatment. I think there are qualitative differences  between 
the earlier episode  and Mr Hs subsequent  relapses. I dont therefore  find that because 
Unum accepted the earlier  claim it is bound to accept the subsequent claims.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2104234