K822xcomplaint
Mr K, Mrs K1, Mrs K2 and Mrs K3 complain that a mistake made by Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited  led to information on their credit  file being  wrong.  This meant  they couldnt 
re-mortgage before interest rates went up and they wasted money on fees.
background 
There are four complainants in this case.  To keep things simple,  Ill refer to them  jointly as 
the borrowers. 
 
The borrowers have  an interest only buy to let mortgage with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited  (Kensington). The mortgage was taken out with a previous lender in 
2003 and transferred to Kensington in 2016. The borrowers borrowed  around £127,000 for a 
term of 15 years ending in about October 2018. They made  overpayments of significantly 
more than the contractual monthly payments that were due.
A mistake by Kensington in 2017  led to inaccurate  information about Mr K being included  in 
a credit agency report. The borrowers complained to Kensington that applications  to 
re-mortgage with other  lenders were refused because of this. Kensington apologised for its 
mistake and offered  the borrowers  some compensation. Kensington increased its offer of 
compensation after the borrowers referred  their complaint to this service. Our investigator  
thought this was a fair way of resolving things. But the borrowers  remain unhappy so their 
complaints been  referred  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In July, August  and September 2017,  Kensingtons mortgage system wrongly interpreted the 
overpayments the borrowers were  making as an arrangement  to pay, suggesting they were 
having difficulties  in paying the mortgage. And this information was passed to a credit 
reference agency and recorded  on Mr Ks credit file. The agencys  report then showed an 
arrangement to pay was in place, although it also showed correctly there werent  any arrears 
on the account.
 
Kensington apologised for its mistake and offered the borrowers some compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the incorrect report had caused. It took steps to have the record  
put straight and said it would look at the losses the borrowers suffered as a result of being 
declined a new mortgage if they sent Kensington supporting evidence. Im not aware  of the 
borrowers providing any supporting evidence to Kensington.
Kensington increased its offer of compensation for distress  and inconvenience  after the 
borrowers came to this service. I think this was the right thing for Kensington to do given the 
concern the agency report will have caused  the borrowers. The borrowers  argue they should 
also be compensated for losing out on re-mortgaging at lower interest rates than those  
available later on. And they want to be reimbursed  for money theyve spent on a property 
valuation and mortgage fees.  
Although the credit  report flagged the arrangement to pay, it also showed Mr K had no 
arrears which  lenders wouldve seen on reviewing Mr Ks financial position as part of any 
Ref: DRN25122322application for a new mortgage. Even  if the report wasnt read carefully by the lenders so this 
was clear to them,  I dont think the report  on its own shows the borrowers  were  refused a 
mortgage because  of the information it contained. And theres  no direct evidence from any of 
the other lenders that the report was the reason for their refusal to lend to the borrowers.
I think its likely that many factors  will have influenced decisions other  lenders  made  about  
lending to the borrowers. And I think its unlikely those other lenders will provide full 
information about why they refused to lend to the borrowers as they arent obliged to. This 
may explain why the borrowers havent  been  able to provide any evidence  about that. 
Without clear evidence the credit report was the reason why other  lenders refused to lend I 
dont think theres any basis to say Kensingtons mistake led to the losses  the borrowers 
complain about. So I dont uphold that part of their complaint.
Bearing all of the circumstances in mind,  I think its fair and reasonable to uphold the 
borrowers complaint  in part. I think Kensington should pay the borrowers  the compensation 
of £125 each its offered which I thinks fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Kensingtons mistake  caused them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr K, Mrs K1, Mrs K2 and Mrs K3s complaint  in part and I 
direct Kensington Mortgage Company Limited  to pay each of them £125 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K, Mrs K1, 
Mrs K2 and Mrs K3 to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2512232