K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the service he received  from Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) in relation to 
his bank account.
background 
Mr L says he believes  Lloyds gave  his bank details to a third party  business  that Ill call 
Business A as a result  of which he received pension annuity payments intended for a 
deceased relative. So, he says he wants an explanation for whats happened  and 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hes been caused.  
Lloyds said it isnt the banks policy to provide third party companies  with new account  
details when a consumer passes away. But it acknowledged it hadnt  given  Mr L good  
service when it discussed the matter with him, so it paid him £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ls complaint shouldnt be upheld.  He said he couldnt  find any 
bank error  by Lloyds.  He also said if Mr L believed thered been  a data breach he could refer 
the matter to the Information Commissioners Office.  
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He questioned how Business  A could 
have got his bank details  unless Lloyds had provided them  without his consent and he said 
he wanted to find out what had happened.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Mr L complained to Business A about this matter and it said it had no record  of 
receiving his deceased relatives death certificate,  so it continued making monthly  annuity  
payments. It said on 6 January 2016 it received notification from Lloyds requesting a change  
to the account  into which  the payments were made. So, it made  this change and continued 
to pay the annuity each  month until February  2018, when it was informed of Mr Ls relatives 
death.
I also see Mr L then complained to Lloyds about the matter and it said it hadnt given details 
of his account to Business A. And it said when  Mr Ls relative  passed  away it wouldnt 
contact any third party companies who made credits into his account. 
This service makes  decisions on the balance of probabilities, in other words on the basis  of 
whats most likely  to have happened. Based on the available  evidence  it isnt clear  who 
initiated the transfer of the annuity payments to Mr Ls account. So, I cant  conclude its most 
likely this situation arose due to an error by Lloyds  as Mr Ls bank. And for these reasons, I 
cant fairly and reasonably  uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN21097412I note Mr L has also suggested  what happened  involved wrongful disclosure  of his personal 
data. But as our adjudicator pointed out, it isnt the role of this service to investigate possible 
breaches of data protection law, thats a matter for the Information Commissioners  Office,  
whose contact details  the adjudicator has given to Mr L. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ls complaint  against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2109741