K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds)  has 
offered to settle  their complaint about two mis-sold  Business  Loan  Repayment Insurance 
policies, (that in this decision are referred  to as payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies)  
taken out alongside two loans.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a business loan (ending  6685)  in November 2000 and at the same 
time purchased a PPI policy. This was paid for by adding the premium  on to the amount they 
borrowed. In February  2002 Mr and Mrs J refinanced this first loan with another loan (ending 
8490) and again with this loan took out a PPI policy, once more  adding the cost of the policy 
to what they borrowed. 
The second  loan ran until January 2004 when it was also settled early. With both PPI 
policies a partial rebate was paid when  the loan was settled early because  of the early 
cancellation of the PPI. 
Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint that both policies were mis-sold  and offered  
compensation. Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with the compensation  amount offered as they 
said the compensatory interest calculated by Lloyds was wrong. When  Lloyds didnt  agree  
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had offered was fair. Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds agreed  to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint that both the PPI policies were mis-sold. 
So in this decision I am not looking  at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at 
what is fair compensation to settle the complaint. 
The role of this service is to consider what is fair and reasonable when considering  the 
issues relating to a complaint. We look at the evidence provided  by both sides and 
determine what is fair in all the circumstances. When  it comes to considering amounts of 
compensation it is not our role to undertake  detailed  calculations for the either party.  We look 
at the approach that is taken to reach  a fair amount of compensation when all the facts 
available have been taken into account. 
Businesses have over a number of years developed methods of calculating compensation 
for mis-sold  PPI single  premium policies. This takes the approach that all the costs paid by 
the consumer  should be refunded and compensatory  interest should be paid on any 
amounts the consumer  was out of pocket. This compensatory interest  is paid from the date 
the consumer  is first out of pocket until the PPI costs have been  refunded.  But compensatory  
interest is only paid on amounts that the consumer has actually  repaid  to the business for 
the cost of PPI.
Ref: DRN20016052The approach taken by Lloyds in its calculation has been accepted by this service  as being 
fair, providing that the specific information  available on a case is used. I have looked  at the 
calculations undertaken by Lloyds  and can see it has used the approach  I would expect. 
What this means in this case  is the calculation works out the total costs  for Loan 1 that were 
actually paid for PPI whilst the loan was active and then calculates 8% simple  interest  on the 
costs. This simple interest  is worked  out on every payment made, from the date it was made,  
to the date of settlement. 
The calculation also takes into account the rebate  paid to Mr and Mrs J when the first loan 
was settled and any amount  that was carried forward into the second loan on refinancing.  
With the second loan Lloyds has calculated  how much  was paid each month  in PPI 
premiums and interest for the second PPI policy and also on the amount of the PPI cost from 
the first loan that was carried forward. 
From the date of every payment, when Mr and Mrs J were  out of pocket for that amount, it 
has worked out compensatory interest to the date of settlement. Lloyds has also taken into 
account a rebate paid to Mr and Mrs J on early settlement for the PPI policy and also the 
amount paid, that was not rebated,  as part of the settlement  figure.
I am also satisfied, having looked at the calculations from Lloyds that the figures it has used 
in its calculations are correct and fair. 
I know Mr and Mrs J feel Lloyds calculations are wrong and that the calculations they have 
themselves provided  are mathematically  correct with no errors. Mr and Mrs J say as their 
calculations are correct  they must be the ones  used to ascertain  the correct  compensation 
due. 
I am not going  to mathematically analyse the figures  Mr and Mrs J have provided.  But I can 
see that the approach they have  taken is not the same as that Lloyds uses  and I do not 
accept that the way Mr and Mrs J has calculated the compensatory  interest is necessarily  
fair.
For example, with loan one they appear to have taken the total days  this loan was open, 
which is 460 days from 10 /11/2000 to 15/2/2002. Then they have calculated 8% simple 
interest per annum interest on the total amount of the PPI premium  (£11,102.40) for this 
period, giving a figure of £1,119.37. They have also calculated how much  they think the loan 
interest was each month for the PPI and then worked out 8% compensatory  interest on 
these monthly amounts.  In total this gives a figure of £1,173.44 in compensatory interest for 
this period. 
The problem here is that this calculation  is based on Mr and Mrs J being out of pocket for the 
full £11,102.40 cost of the PPI premium for the period this loan was active.  That is not the 
case. They were  only out of pocket for the amount of the PPI premium and interest  that they 
actually repaid each month as part of the loan monthly repayment. 
I also note their calculation makes the assumption  that the same amounts would have been 
paid each month for the loan if no PPI had been  included. That is not the case  as if they had 
borrowed less, without  the PPI, the monthly repayments would have been less. So to put 
them back  as far as possible in the situation  they would have been without the PPI, when 
Ref: DRN20016053calculating the loan costs this would  mean  using the monthly repayments as they would 
have been for borrowing a lower  amount.
Whilst Mr and Mrs Js mathematical calculations may produce accurate figures based on the 
figures input into the calculation,  this is only fair compensation  if the figures assumed and 
input are accurate  and fair. And I dont think what that is the case  in what  they have  done  
here.
I am satisfied that the calculations undertaken by Lloyds, that have been provided to 
Mr and Mrs J, are fair. And that the compensation offered and paid by Lloyds is also 
therefore fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  So I am not upholding this complaint. 
 
my final decision
I think how Lloyds Bank  Plc has calculated  the compensation  due to Mr and Mrs J for two 
mis-sold PPI policies is fair and I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2001605