K820x#14complaint
Mr T acquired a used car in September 2017, by means of a 60 month hire purchase 
agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as MotoNovo Finance). He complains that 
administrative charges  were applied to his agreement, of which  he was not made  aware at 
the point of supply. He wants these  charges removed.
 
background
Mr T complained to MotoNovo in October  2018. It responded in December 2018, saying:
It had reviewed the documents provided to Mr T both before and at the time he 
signed his hire purchase agreement
Within these documents,  administration fees were clearly  detailed
As a result, it was unable to uphold Mr Ts complaint
Mr T then referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator did not think  it should be upheld, for 
the same  reasons as MotoNovo. Mr T disagreed with our adjudicator. And so this complaint 
was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Mr T told us that he first became aware of two administrative charges (totalling just under  
£350) when he received his first annual  statement of account in October 2018. The 
statement clearly sets out details of his hire purchase agreement.  In particular, it shows that 
the total amount to be paid by Mr T (a little over £10,700) includes these administrative 
charges.
I think that Mr T would  have serious cause to complain,  if the administrative charges had 
been added  after (and in addition to) the total amount  that he been advised was payable 
under his agreement. But the amount in question  was clearly set out on the first and last 
pages of the three-page  pre-contract  document provided to him by MotoNovo, and:
The actual amounts of these charges were  listed on page one, along  with the total 
amount to be paid
That the total amount included administration fees was clearly explained on page 
three, and the actual  total amount to be paid repeated
In addition, the same information displayed on page  one of the pre-contract document  (about 
administrative charges  and the total amount to be paid) was repeated  on page one of the 
three-page hire purchase agreement, singed  (electronically) by Mr T.
I cannot be certain that Mr T fully appreciated, at the point of supply that the amount he was 
singing up to repay included administrative charges. But I find it is much  more likely than not, 
that Mr T did understand the total repayment  required under  his agreement. This was of first 
order importance, because it was the legally  binding financial commitment that he was 
making. 
Ref: DRN20363372Also, on the balance  of probabilities, I find that Mr T did know (to the extent this information 
was important to him, and/or relevant to his decision  to sign up) that the total repayment 
required under  his agreement included administrative  charges. There  is no evidence  to 
suggest that he was being  shielded in any way from this information. On the contrary,  he 
was provided with reasonably clear and precise  information. 
And so I find that I have  come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2036337