K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Cabot Credit  Management  Group Limited (Cabot) are chasing  her for 
a debt she doesnt owe.
background
In February 2005  Mrs K took out a personal loan with a business Ill call Z. Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  was also included and, with interest, the total amount  payable  
was £10,343.40. Tesco defaulted the account and the debt was sold to Cabot who sent a 
Notice of Assignment  (NOA) to Mrs K on 14 December 2016. They said the debt Mrs K 
owed them was £3792.64. 
But Mrs K said shed  paid Tesco. She was concerned that Cabot  made demands for 
payment before receiving relevant information  from Z about the loan.
Cabot didnt agree. They  received information from Z that persuaded them the debt they 
were pursuing from Mrs K was correct and they explained  that the NOA had explained they 
were the new owners of the debt and they had accurately stated what  that debt was. So they 
didnt think they needed to take any further  action.
But Mrs K disagreed and she referred her complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  provided  
a detailed breakdown of the loan and the repayments for Mrs K. He explained  that:
the original loan was for £10343.40 this included the PPI policy and interest. The first 
payment was made in 2005
the PPI policy  paid some of the instalments from May 2006 into 2007
the balance  at the end of the PPI claim was £6,654.25 
thereafter Mrs K received two refunds of interest  from the PPI policy  which further 
reduced the balance to £6,144.35
further repayments reduced the balance and a final credit for refunded  interest left 
the final balance  at £3,792.64
this was the debt that Z sold to Cabot
He was therefore satisfied that the debt was correct and that Mrs K remained liable for it.
But Mrs K was still dissatisfied. She said the letter shed received from Z, before she 
received the NOA, had said her balance was now paid off and she asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs K but I agree with the adjudicators  view.  Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN21464082Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the account information that the adjudicator set out and that Ive summarised  
above. I agree that the balance of the account  transferred from Z to Cabot is correct and that 
Mrs K therefore remains liable for it.
I dont accept Mrs Ks suggestion  that the debt was paid off before Cabot bought it. When  Z 
said that the loan was paid off it meant  that the debt had been sold to Cabot. Whilst Mrs K 
owed nothing to Z she remained liable for the debt Cabot  now managed and which  it 
accurately advised  her of in the NOA.
So overall, I dont  think Cabot have done  anything wrong. Theyve purchased  the debt from 
Z that Mrs K owed and to which shes liable and I dont think they need  to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2146408