K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the short term loan she took out with Gain  Credit  LLC trading as 
Drafty. Miss S says that the loan was unaffordable  and left her in a worse financial situation  
than before she took it. She says she is struggling to repay the loan. 
background
Miss S took out one loan on 31 January 2018  and she borrowed £870. This was an open  
ended credit arrangement  and there  was no fixed repayment timeframe. Miss S needed to 
make a monthly minimum repayment  of 2% of the capital balance  plus any interest  accrued.  
I understand Miss S made five monthly  repayments of £67 but she has been unable  to repay 
the remainder of the loan. 
Drafty has looked at Miss S complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld.  It said that it did 
appropriate checks before  approving the loan. And these checks  showed that the loan was 
affordable. It said it believed it had behaved responsibly and dealt with Miss S fairly. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Miss S and Drafty said.  He thought Miss S complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He thought that Drafty had made proportionate checks  before lending. 
So he thought that Draftys  decision to lend was reasonable.  
Miss S didnt agree with our adjudicator:  
she provided information that she says showed at the time she borrowed from Drafty 
that she had other short term lending and she was borrowing in an unsustainable 
manner
she thought  Drafty  shouldve made  better checks, including a credit check. If it had 
done this it wouldve  seen she had financial problems and not lent to her 
So as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S complaint. Ill explain why.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending and the lending shouldnt adversely impact a consumers financial situation.  
The guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory  checks.  But they are clear that 
any checks needed to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different 
things. This could include how much was being  lent, the size of the repayments  and what  the 
lender found out about the consumer. 
Ref: DRN27568782So Ive firstly looked at whether Drafty performed proportionate checks. If I think  that the 
checks were proportionate then it usually wouldve been reasonable for it to lend. 
Drafty says it asked Miss S for details of her income and expenditure before lending. It says 
that it also asked  for a report from a credit reference agency and used the information it 
obtained to assess  if the Lending was affordable for Miss S. It hasnt shown me the 
information it obtained from the credit  reference  agency. And based  on what it saw it thought 
it reasonable to lend to Miss S.
why I think Draftys checks were  proportionate
Ive seen a record  of the information Miss S provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss S said she had a monthly income  of £1,745  and she had regular monthly  
outgoings of £1,148. This left her with a monthly disposable income of £597. And so the 
potential loan repayments wouldve appeared affordable to Drafty. 
Miss S has said that just before taking out the Drafty loan she had taken out some other 
short and longer term credit with other  providers. And I dont dispute  that she mayve done 
this. But it wouldve taken  some time before these transactions appeared on a credit report. 
And in any event I cant be certain that it wouldve been enough for Drafty to say it shouldnt 
have approved this one loan.   
And I havent seen  any further information  that shows  its likely Drafty was made aware of 
any financial  problems Miss S mightve been  having.  Or anything  that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further.  So I think it was reasonable for Drafty to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think Draftys assessment for this loan was 
proportionate. I think Draftys decision to lend was reasonable and Im not upholding Miss S 
complaint about  this loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2756878