K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms I says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Ms I took out in 1998. It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Is case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Is complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Ms I says 
the PPI wasnt discussed.  
FICL has provided a copy of Ms Is application form. The form has a section for the PPI and 
applicants have to tick a box in this section  if they wish to take out the policy. The box has 
been ticked on Ms Is form and shes signed in agreement  to the store  card account. Ms I 
wouldve had the opportunity to review and query anything on the application she wasnt 
sure about  before she signed it. 
So, on balance I think FICL made  it clear  that Ms I didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms I so it didnt  have  to check  if it was suitable for her. But 
it did have to make sure Ms I got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms I about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Ms I says she was entitled  to employee benefits. But policy  wouldve paid out alongside any 
benefits she had. Ms I didnt have  any other  means  such  as savings  to help her make  
her repayments if she was too unwell to work or became unemployed. 
Ive thought about Ms Is comments about her husband being able to help. Whilst I dont 
doubt that he wouldve wanted to help, peoples circumstances  change. So I dont  think  this 
help can be guaranteed and I think the PPI would have  been useful for her if something went 
Ref: DRN23422282wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont  think Ms I has lost out due to anything FICL mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342228