K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL),  
as the insurer, should accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card which Mrs H took out in 
1997. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Hs case. Having done  so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs H has said she has no recollection of PPI being discussed. Shes said if it had 
been discussed she would not have taken it.
FICL has provided a copy of the card application Mrs H signed for her store  card. Theres  
a section titled Payment and Purchase  Protection which also details what  the cover is 
for. I can see there is an option  to tick to take PPI and I can see it has been ticked in 
Mrs Hs application  which indicates  she wanted  the cover. And there is nothing here to 
indicate that she had to tick in this section  if Mrs H didnt want PPI she didnt have to 
tick to take it. 
Mrs H has said PPI wasnt explained.  I dont know what was discussed at the time but as 
Mrs H was agreeing to additional credit, I would have expected her to have read the 
form and raised any questions she had at the time before signing in agreement  with it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs H knew at the 
time that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand 
why she might not recall  this now, as the sale took place over 20 years  ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt need to check  that it was suitable, 
given her circumstances at the time. But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough 
information to decide whether she wanted  to take it. Although I dont know what  was said 
to her then, I think its likely that the information she received  about  the PPI could have 
been better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed her mind  
about taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN29057532Mrs H appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs H says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient employee sick pay at 
the time.  However,  for no more than £1.00 per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance  the 
PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Hs outstanding monthly balance, until she returned 
to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition to 
her sick pay and longer  than it would have lasted. So I think  she would have valued the 
extra security which the policy  gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont  uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2905753