K822xcomplaint
Mrs O and Mr W complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled and 
settled a claim they made under  their home  insurance for storm damage.  
background 
Mrs O and Mr W have  an insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) under which  
storm damage is covered.  In July 2018,  during stormy and rainy  weather, they say the sash 
window in their attic broke and fell out and rain flooded the floor. They  also say damage was 
caused to the upper  glass panels of that window.
Mrs O and Mr W photographed the damage  they say the storm had caused  and contacted 
RSA who nominated a company, which Ill refer to as V throughout this decision, to manage 
this claim and assess the damage  caused.  
V appointed  a scaffolding company to attend Mrs O and Mr Ws property.  This company 
erected scaffolding in Mrs O and Mr Ws neighbours garden, without their permission. This 
scaffolding caused  damage to the property of both Mrs O and Mr W and their neighbour.
After the scaffolding was erected, work was undertaken to replace the timber sash, glass  
within the window  frame and window lock. But RSA declined to repair the upper section of 
the attic window. It said this was because V didnt  think that damage was weather related. 
Instead, it thought  there were a number  of plausible explanations as to how those glass  
panes had become damaged, such as wear and tear, thermal fracturing or a stress  fracture.
But Mrs O and Mr W disagreed. They felt the upper section  of the window should be 
replaced because  they say the glass was damaged in the storm. They also werent happy 
with the quality of the repair to their sash window.  They say the timber  frame doesnt lock or 
close properly and isnt water tight. 
When Mrs O and Mr W complained to RSA about what happened  it agreed the level of 
service V had provided had been disappointing. V had already compensated Mrs O and Mr 
W £50 in relation to the issues caused by the scaffolding company it had appointed. But 
RSA paid them a further £100 to recognise the shortfall in customer service theyd 
experienced. It also liaised with Mrs O and Mr W to address the concerns theyd raised  
about the quality of repairs to their sash window. But RSA maintained  its position  that the 
damage caused to the upper section of the sash window wasnt weather related. So it didnt 
think it had made a mistake in declining to cover that part of Mrs O and Mr Ws claim. 
Mrs O and Mr W were dissatisfied  with RSAs response to their complaint. So they referred it 
to our service. Our investigator looked  into what had happened and didnt uphold the 
complaint about  the two additional  panes  of glass. She thought the compensation already  
paid about the problems  caused by the badly erected scaffolding  was fair. But she thought 
RSA should pay compensation to Mrs O and Mr W to recognise the trouble and upset  they 
had been caused when  raising concerns about  the repair to their sash window. 
Our investigator recommended that RSA pay an additional £100 to Mrs O and Mr W, which 
would bring the total compensation payment to £250. RSA agreed to do this. But Mrs O and 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. So, their complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a decision.
Ref: DRN25248732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mrs O and Mr W experienced here. I can appreciate  
they were caused  distress  and inconvenience by what happened. There  are three parts  to 
the complaint  that Mrs O and Mr W have  brought to our service.  So, Ill focus on each issue 
separately. 
Damage caused  by the scaffolding company
The first part of Mrs O and Mr Ws complaint is about the damage the scaffolding company  
caused when  erecting  the scaffolding. Im pleased to note that the damage has now been 
repaired. I acknowledge how frustrating and upsetting this would have been  for Mrs O and 
Mr W and I can see that RSA paid an additional  £100 in compensation as an apology for 
what happened. I think it was right for RSA to recognise that the payment V had made didnt 
go far enough and that an additional  payment was needed here.  
Ive carefully considered  whether the additional  payment  RSA made  adequately  recognises 
the extent of the distress Mrs O and Mr W were  caused. The scaffolding in question was 
erected in their neighbours garden without their permission. This is bound  to have led to 
difficult conversations between Mrs O and Mr W and their neighbour  added to which  
damage was caused to both properties.  
That said Im persuaded that these factors are reflected  in the additional  payment RSA made  
here. It follows  that Im satisfied the overall total of £150 fairly  recognises the trouble and 
upset that was caused in relation to this part of Mrs O and Mr Ws complaint.
Decision to decline the claim for damage  to the upper section  of the attic window
Mrs O and Mr W say the damage to these panes  of glass  occurred at the same  time as the 
damage to the sash window  and was due to the storm. They dispute that the damage was 
caused by wear and tear and say human  activity didnt cause it. But, while I accept their 
evidence that these panes  of glass are rarely opened and arent easily accessible, this 
doesnt mean the damage hasnt been caused  by wear and tear. Ill explain  why.
V offered a number of alternative causes as to how the glass  panes  could have become 
damaged  such as wear  and tear, thermal fracturing or a stress fracture.  V said the cracks 
in the upper section of the attic window would only become damaged if the sash  window was 
slammed upwards. And it also pointed  out that the cracks were in the same place either side 
of the middle pane, which ought reasonably to have  been also damaged if the cause of the 
damage was due to a storm. This supports Vs opinion that the damage to the upper section 
of the attic window was not caused by adverse weather.
For me to uphold this part of Mrs O and Mr Ws complaint, Id have to be satisfied on 
balance that the damage  to the upper  section  of the attic window was caused by a storm. 
And, taking  everything  into account,  Im not persuaded the damage to these panes  of glass 
is consistent with storm damage. Instead,  I think it is most likely that any damage  occurred 
due to non weather related causes  such as those put forward by V. And, because  of this, I 
cant fairly tell RSA it should  replace  this glass.
Ref: DRN25248733Having thought about how RSA communicated its decision to decline  Mrs O and Mr Ws 
claim for damage to these panes of glass  I think  it fairly and candidly made them aware  of 
the other possible causes for the damage.  It also told them  they may be able to pursue a 
claim under their policy under a different insurance  peril, which I think is reasonable.
Quality of the repair  work  undertaken  to the sash window
The final part of Mrs O and Mr Ws complaint  is about the quality of the repair  work  that was 
undertaken to their sash window. 
I can see that, on 23 September 2018,  Mrs O and Mr W made RSA aware of their concerns 
regarding the quality of the repair to their window. Based  on what  Ive seen I think it logged  
their concerns promptly. Despite doing so though, I understand that this issue  is still yet to 
be resolved over a year later. 
While Im persuaded that RSA is trying to resolve  this problem, I dont think  its fair or 
reasonable that the window still hasnt been  properly repaired.  And I can understand the 
trouble and upset  this must be causing Mrs O and Mr W. Theyve spent  a considerable 
amount of time trying  to get this resolved. And, like our investigator has said,  if the window 
had been repaired  properly in the first instance  Mrs O and Mr W wouldnt have needed to 
chase, or communicate  with, RSA about  this problem.  
 
Our investigator recommended RSA pay £100 to recognise the trouble  and upset Mrs O and 
Mr W were caused  here. Im satisfied  that amount is a reasonable amount, which fairly 
recognises the distress  and inconvenience  they were  caused. Its is in line with our approach 
in similar  scenarios. So, I wont  be asking  RSA to increase that amount.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this decision in part. Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should 
pay Mrs O and Mr W £100 compensation to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2524873