K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company  UK Limited (Catlin) has paid only half 
of her claim  under the insurance  policy that covered her horse.
My references to Catlin include its agents.  
background
In September  2017 Mrs Ds horse  became lame. In January 2018  she made a claim to Catlin 
for permanent incapacity (loss of use). Catlin said that a diagnosis  was needed to see 
whether the cause of the lameness was treatable,  and, if not, was permanent.  The horses 
lameness unfortunately became worse. 
A dispute arose because Mrs Ds vet hadnt obtained diagnostic (MRI) images of the horses 
hoof to diagnose the suspected cause of the lameness.  Mrs D said that if shed known this 
was a requirement then shed  never have taken  out the policy, as she lives several hours 
drive from the nearest  MRI facility. She said Catlin should have made its requirements clear 
earlier. It wasnt fair for her to transport her horse such a long distance for a test which  might  
not confirm a diagnosis.
In an attempt to resolve  the dispute Catlin paid Mrs D 50% of the permanent incapacity 
benefit under the policy. Having checked with this service that it wouldnt prejudice her 
complaint, Mrs D made the difficult decision to put the horse  to sleep.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She ultimately concluded that Catlins payment of 
50% of the policy benefit was a fair settlement. Mrs D had shown the lameness was 
permanent, but she hadnt been  able to show the cause of the lameness or that it was 
untreatable  as required under the policys terms. Mrs D didnt agree with the adjudicators  
findings. She said:
Shed  followed  all the conditions in the policy documents. The policy doesnt mention 
a requirement that lameness requires diagnostic  images. Its not reasonable for her 
as a consumer  to provide them as a matter  of course. The insurer should spell out 
exactly what is required at the earliest opportunity. This was a welfare issue for her 
horse, and it wasnt reasonable to expect a seriously lame  horse  to travel such  a long 
way (around four hours each way). The policy documents  led her to believe that what  
was required was professional veterinary advice.  
In January 2018 Catlin  asked for a proven  diagnosis. But it didnt set out exactly what  
it required. Catlin asked  for a further veterinary examination  but it wasnt  until late 
April 2018 that it asked for images. She offered to send a video of the horse and for 
Catlins vet to examine  the horse,  but Catlin ignored  her offer.  It continued to ask for 
a diagnostic image, and though it didnt specify what it meant she assumed it meant 
an MRI.  
Catlin says different treatment might  have resulted in the horse getting better, and 
that the time period  for the treatment had passed.  It said the horse seemed to need 
an MRI to have a proven diagnosis. But it didnt ask for this until late April 2018 or 
contact its own vet until then. So the time for other treatment had passed  and she 
didnt have the opportunity to ask for an alternative treatment or second vets opinion.  
In June 2018 Catlins own vet agreed (just four weeks after the first diagnostic  
images had been requested)  that it was unlikely the horse would get better. So the 
time period  had already  passed  by then.
Ref: DRN21226092Mrs D followed  the requirements  of the policy.  She wasnt made aware at the start of 
the claims process that an image  was required, or that following her vets 
professional advice might not be enough to ensure  a pay out under the policy.  Shed 
lost the chance to treat the horse differently,  and its inherently unfair and morally  
wrong for Catlin not to pay the claim  in full under a policy  where its collected her 
premiums for exactly this situation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Catlin has treated Mrs D fairly  by making  a payment of 50% of the policys  permanent 
incapacity benefit. Ill explain why. 
The starting point  is the policy.  Mrs D had cover  for permanent incapacity (loss of use).  
Under this cover:
Catlin would pay a claim  for the horses lameness which resulted in permanent 
incapacity to fulfil the class of use stated in the policy schedule. Where the horse was 
slaughtered for economic reasons the policy would pay 100% of the lesser of the 
current market value  (as defined) or the sum insured  in the policy schedule. 
To make a successful  claim  the policyholder had to show  that the symptoms  of 
lameness first occurred and first manifested during the period of insurance and in the 
opinion of both the policyholders and Catlins veterinary surgeons  resulted in 
permanent incapacity during the period of insurance or within twelve  calendar  
months of such occurrence and manifestation.  
A condition of the permanent incapacity  cover  was that the policyholder  must seek 
and follow all veterinary surgeons  advice and treatment, irrespective of whether or 
not they have  the veterinary fee insurance cover, prior to the permanent incapacity 
claim being made. 
Mrs D argues that Catlin should have set out the requirement for diagnostic  (MRI) images in 
the policy document. If it had done so then shed not have taken  out the policy.  I see her 
point but I dont consider Catlin reasonably had to set out all the possible veterinary 
evidence it might require  for any illness, injury,  lameness, disease  or physical incapacity 
insured under the policy. The vets evidence would  depend on the type of medical issue  the 
horse was suffering from, and couldnt  reasonably be set out in full in the policys terms. 
Mrs D made  the claim in January 2018. She argues that Catlin should have done more  to 
explain its policy requirements at this stage. If it had done so then she says shed have  had 
the chance to take look for alternative treatment or a second  vets opinion. 
The claim form indicated that there  was a likely  deep digital  flexor  tear within the horses  
hoof capsule.  It said the vet had carried out flexion tests, but no other diagnostic tests.  At the 
point of claim the vet said there was no permanent incapacity at that stage. 
Catlins responded to set out the policy terms. It said that for a successful permanent 
incapacity claim it would need a confirmed  diagnosis for the lameness and to know  whether 
or not the cause was untreatable and would  therefore be likely  to be permanent.  
Ref: DRN21226093So I think Catlin did explain what Mrs D would  need  to do for a successful claim. Her vet set 
out the likely  cause of the lameness, but there wasnt  a confirmed diagnosis. 
It was for Mrs D to prove her claim. I think Catlin  was entitled to ask for an MRI to confirm 
whether the suspected diagnosis was accurate  and, if so, the type of tear or lesion that the 
horse had. Its vet has explained that different types of lesions might have different 
outcomes, with some more likely  than others  to be successfully treated. I dont think Catlins 
response to the claim meant Mrs D lost the chance to take a second  vets opinion. She was 
aware the horse was lame and hadnt improved either with the recommended treatment or 
paddock rest. She offered  to send a video of her horse and for Catlins  vet to examine the 
horse. But neither  of these routes  would  have confirmed the suspected  diagnosis  of the 
deep digital  flexor tear, or the type of tear. 
I accept Mrs D followed her vets advice, as required in the policy. Catlin doesnt dispute this. 
I also think it was reasonable for Mrs Ds vet to know  what was required to confirm a 
diagnosis. 
But in any event its not clear to me that Mrs D would have taken different action even if 
Catlin had specified,  in January 2018  when the claim was submitted, that it needed an MRI 
to confirm the diagnosis. She didnt want her lame  horse to travel to an MRI facility. 
I appreciate her reasons for that. But I also think Catlin took a reasonable approach when it 
paid Mrs D 50% of the policys permanent incapacity  benefit. I think it was a pragmatic and 
reasonable settlement given the horse  was lame,  and, even if treatment might have been 
possible, was now unlikely to result in a reversal of its condition.  So I dont require Catlin to 
make any further payment  to Mrs D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2122609