K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that she couldnt complete  a transaction with Santander UK Plc as she did 
not have a mobile phone signal and Santander  UK Plc didnt offer an alternative method of 
completion.  
background
Miss R wanted to make a payment  from her Santander account.  This required an OTP (a 
One Time Passcode  a code that is sent to a mobile phone number registered to the 
account in order  to check that a transaction is a genuine one that the real customer is trying 
to make) to be used for security reasons. 
Unfortunately Miss R doesnt  have proper mobile phone  reception where she lives and so 
couldnt receive the OTP by text. She called on her landline and tried to see if there was any 
other way that the transaction could be authorised, but was told that there wasnt. As a 
result, she wasnt able to do what she wanted  to do and complained to Santander. 
Santander said that they have security measures in place to protect  customers like Miss R. 
Although they sympathised with her position,  they did not feel that the lack of mobile phone 
signal was something that they could do anything about.  
 
Our investigator felt that what happened  wasnt Santanders fault,  and that it was not 
unreasonable for them to not have  an alternative way of making  the payment. 
Miss R disagreed as she thought that it was not her fault that she didnt have a phone  signal 
and therefore  Santander should make provision for people in her position to have an 
alternative way of passing security checks.  She felt that this was unfair. She was also 
concerned that Santander had given her different  reasons  as to why an OTP was required.  
And so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
What I need to decide here is whether Santander were acting reasonably in insisting that an 
OTP is sent by text message and not making alternative arrangements for people who dont 
have mobile phone signal.   
 
Ive listened to the call that Miss R made and it seems to me that Santander  were  
sympathetic to Miss R about the position  that she was in. I can see why Miss R was 
frustrated by this, especially as she had previously told Santander that she often didnt have  
a mobile phone signal, but the requirement to have security measures in place to prevent 
fraud is for the benefit of all customers and I dont  think Santander were wrong to insist  on 
that. 
The OTP is not something that Santander themselves had, so there was nothing  that they 
could do when they were on the phone to Miss R.
I appreciate that there will be people  who cant  access  an OTP number, whether because 
they dont have a phone  or because they dont have a signal. But its not for us to tell 
Ref: DRN27236252Santander how to run their business  unless their decision means that a customer is treated 
unfairly.
Here, there were  other ways to do the transfer (by a cheque for example), even if they were  
not immediate.  Because  of that, I dont think Santanders position  of requiring an OTP to be 
entered when  using  this payment method  is unreasonable  or unfair to Miss R.  
I can see that Santander gave Miss R different  information at different times as to who 
required the OTP and stopped the payment. I can also see that although Santander said that 
they would  contact her, they did not in fact do so until later. 
Whilst I imagine  that both these things  must  have been very frustrating for her, Im satisfied 
that in the circumstances  it is fair and reasonable to not make an award  for this.
Miss R has also suggested to our investigator  that the product was mis-sold.  But I can only 
consider the complaint that Santander  has responded to and that she has referred to our 
service. Its for Miss R to decide if she wishes to raise a new complaint about the mis-sale.
I know that Miss R will be disappointed by this, but I dont uphold her complaint. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2723625