K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains Red Sands Insurance  Company  (Europe) Limited  turned down a claim on
his mechanical breakdown insurance  policy.
background
Mr Ps car started making a crunching noise coming  from the gears, so he arranged for it to
be inspected by a garage.  He was told the clutch and gear box needed replacing so he 
contacted Red Sands to make a claim.
Red Sands  inspected Mr Ps car and had two engineers reports completed,  one on the
clutch and one on the gearbox. The engineers said the damage  caused was due to wear
and tear because  of driving style. Red Sands then turned down Mr Ps claim because of this.
Mr P disagreed and had another  engineer inspect his car. He also complained  to             
Red Sands.
In their final response Red Sands said there was no evidence  of any sudden  or unexpected
mechanical failure to the differential  or clutch assembly. They  said all damage was a direct
result of wear and tear.
Mr P didnt agree and brought his complaint here,  he said Red Sands engineer said the
gearbox failed  due to his driving style. He also said his policy  covered him for wear and tear,
so he thought his claim  should be paid. Mr P also provided another  report  on the clutch
which said the clutch didnt show any signs  of misuse or abuse. Mr P said if the clutch hadnt
been misused then neither could the gearbox.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 January 2020 where I said: Mr Ps 
policy covers him for the sudden mechanical  failure  of covered parts  including  those
which fail due to wear and tear. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy  define  breakdown
as the actual and sudden mechanical  failure of any PART(s), causing a sudden  stoppage of
its function and which necessitate repair or replacement to resume  those functions.
The parts which have failed on Mr Ps car according to the engineers reports and the repair
invoice are its clutch and the crown  wheel and pinion. Because  of this the engineers  and
garage agree Mr Ps car needs a new clutch and gear box to function  properly again.
Red Sands  agree the parts which have failed are covered by the policy  but said they havent
suffered a sudden mechanical failure due to power driving techniques. As the parts  have
stopped functioning and need replacing before theyll  function  properly again, Im satisfied
they meet the definition of sudden  mechanical  failure as defined in the policy.  Ive therefore
looked at the wear  and tear and abuse  reasons Red Sands have given for why the claim has
been declined.
Gearbox
Red Sands  said theyve turned down Mr Ps claim for the gearbox because of a combination
of general wear and tear and driving style. Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ps policy and it
says it covers him for wear and tear to the gearbox.
The policy terms go on to say breakdown or damage arising from abuse  isnt covered but
doesnt define what abuse is. Red Sands has used the ordinary everyday meaning of abuse
Ref: DRN25867522is the use of something in a way that is wrong or harmful. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable interpretation, so Ive looked at whether Im satisfied this is whats  happened
here.
Both reports on the gearbox  agree  the gearbox  has had forced gear selection. Red Sands
report puts this down to power  driving techniques and Mr Ps report thinks its likely  to be a
result of deterioration and loss of case hardening. While neither report  agrees on the likely
cause of the forced gear selection,  if I accept Red Sands report, Im still not persuaded its
fair and reasonable to decline the claim.
I say this because  Mr Ps car is a high-performance sports car, and Im not persuaded that
power driving techniques would be classified as abuse for this particular car. In addition,
none of the reports say the car has been abused. The report  Mr P had done  on the clutch
also specifically said the clutch hadnt  been  misused  or abused.  I think its unlikely the
gearbox would have been abused  but not the clutch.  Because  of this Im not satisfied its fair
and reasonable for Red Sands to decline Mr Ps claim for the gearbox.
Clutch
While Mr Ps policy provides cover for wear and tear, it specifically excludes Burnt or 
wornout clutch parts  and the build  up of carbon deposits. The engineers report arranged  by
Red Sands  on the clutch says the Tangential strap retaining rivet was displaced, it goes on
to say Apart from the displacement on the Tangential  strap retaining rivet the clutch
components were in a serviceable condition with the wear  approaching the point that the
clutch components would require replacement as a result of routine maintenance rather  than
a material failure.
Mr Ps engineers report focuses mainly  on the gearbox and doesnt give a recommendation
on the reason  for the clutch failing.  The clutch report Mr P provided focuses mainly on
whether the clutch  showed signs of misuse. From  looking  at all the reports Im satisfied
Red Sands  decision  to decline Mr Ps claim for the clutch for wear  and tear is fair and
reasonable.
As Red Sands turned down Mr Ps claim he said hes paid for the repairs  himself.  The terms
and conditions limit the amount paid on a claim to £7,000. From  the repair costs Mr Ps sent
in I can see the cost to replace the gearbox exceeds the policy  limit. As the policy limits the
amount Red Sands has to pay, Im satisfied Red Sands dont  have to pay more  than the
policy limit. But as the claim amount is higher than the policy  limit Red Sands should deduct
the excess from the total claim  amount  before the limit is applied.  As Mr Ps been without the
money Red Sands do need to add 8% simple interest per year to the amount  it pays  Mr P to
compensate him for not having the money.
Both Red Sands and Mr P responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Red Sands  
also asked for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25867523Both Red Sands and Mr P responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Red Sands  
also asked for a final decision. As both parties  accepted my provisional decision I see no 
reason to depart from it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint. I 
require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr Ps gearbox  claim, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions. As the claim  amount is higher  than the policy limit 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should apply any excess to the total claim 
amount before applying the policy limit. It should also add 8% simple interest per year to the 
amount it pays,  calculated  from the day Mr P paid for the repairs until the date it makes 
payment.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Red Sands Insurance  Company (Europe)  Limited considers that their required by HM Revenue  &
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much theyve  taken off. They   
should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2586752