K821x#15complaint
Ms J is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure)  has declined a claim she made for 
subsidence under  her home insurance policy.
background
Ms J made a claim to esure after she noticed cracking to her conservatory, garage, and in 
the main house.  esures surveyor (S) inspected the cracking and arranged  for site 
investigations to be carried out to look at the subsoil and foundation depth near the 
damaged areas.
esure accepted the damage  to the conservatory  had been caused by subsidence. But it said 
this was a result of defective foundations and not covered by the policy.  Esure  said there  
was some cracking to the main house, but this wasnt  caused by subsidence. And it said, in 
line with the policy wording, that as the garage  was detached, without subsidence damage to 
the main house  (including the conservatory), it couldnt consider a claim for subsidence to 
the garage alone.
Ms J complained to esure. It maintained the cause  of subsidence was shallow foundations 
and this wasnt covered  by the policy. Ms J referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said esure had acted unfairly when declining the 
claim. He said the policy term esure were relying on only applied  where  the foundation didnt 
meet building regulations at the time it was built.  He thought esure  had accepted that the 
conservatory wasnt subject to building regulations. So, he didnt think it was fair to rely on 
this policy  term. He asked  esure  to deal with the claim for the conservatory. Because this 
would mean  covering a claim to the main house,  he also asked esure  to reconsider the claim 
for the garage.
Ms J accepted what our investigator said but esure didnt. It agreed  the conservatory  wasnt  
subject to building regulations. But it thought the regulations in general should  have been 
considered as good practice and taken  into account  by the builder  when laying the 
foundation for the conservatory.  esure didnt think the policy term required building 
regulations to apply  to the particular structure  suffering damage. It said building  regulations 
were being  used by esure as the standard by which to judge  the adequacy of the foundation 
 even if building regulations didnt  actually apply to the foundation in question.
Ms Js complaint was passed on to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with our investigator that esure  
was unfair  to decline the claim so Ill be upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
esure accepted the conservatory  was suffering  from subsidence as a result  of clay 
shrinkage. But it declined  the claim because of a policy term. That term says:
we will not pay for loss or damage to your buildings caused by  inadequate foundations 
which did not meet the building regulations which were in force, at the time the foundations 
were constructed
Ref: DRN22302922esure has shown through the site investigations  that the foundation extends to 530mm  below 
the conservatory. Just below  the foundation, live roots were found. I understand those roots 
are thought to be causing the clay shrinkage  problem. esure said that if the foundation had 
been laid deeper, at least a metre, the roots wouldnt be causing the problem. I accept  what  
esure said on this point.
The policy term is specific that the standard by which  the adequacy of a foundation is to be 
judged is building  regulations  and those that applied at the time the foundation was laid.
esure told Ms J her claim was declined because the present  building  regulations  required a 
foundation to be at least a metre  deep and to take into account  the soil conditions and 
presence of nearby vegetation. Although it also said actual foundation depths arent 
specified in the regulations.
Ms J has said her conservatory was built 11 or 12 years ago. So, its the regulations which  
applied then, not presently, that are relevant to the policy term. Ive looked at the policy  
terms and I cant see any reference  to specific foundation depths. But even if particular 
depths were referred  to, I dont think that would  make a difference  here.
esure accept  the conservatory wasnt subject to building regulations.  But it said the policy 
term above doesnt require the conservatory  to be subject to the regulations to apply. 
Effectively esures saying  that the regulations represent good building practice regardless of 
whether the regulations actually apply  to the structure.
I understand the point esure  is making. In general,  regulations that apply to a similar  size and 
type of structure  as a conservatory may offer reasonable guidance  for good building  practice 
of the conservatory,  even  if theres no regulatory  requirement to comply  with that guidance.
But I think the most important factor here is what the policy says. It doesnt mention  general 
good building practice. Nor does it leave it open  to judgement what it means for the 
foundation to be inadequate. It relies specifically on building regulations  to decide if the 
foundation is inadequate. The regulations  themselves contain a number  of exemptions,  
including conservatories.  As the policy term relies  specifically  on building regulations to 
decide whether  a foundation is inadequate, I dont think esure  has acted fairly when it relied 
on the policy term to decline Ms Js claim.
When esure told Ms J it was declining her claim it also mentioned standards applied  by 
builders of certain new homes. Ms Js conservatory and garage werent subject to these 
standards when  they were built. So, the builder had no obligation to take those standards  
into account. And the policy  term esure  is seeking  to rely on specifically mentions building  
regulations, rather than certain  new home  building standards. For these reasons I dont think  
the new home standards are relevant  here.
I dont think it would  be fair for esure  to rely on the policy term to decline the claim for the 
conservatory. To put things right, I think esure  should now deal with the claim.
I think its accepted  that the conservatory is part of the main house. Now that esure is dealing 
with a subsidence claim for the main house, it should also consider the claim for the garage.
Ref: DRN22302923Ss opinion  was that the cracking to the main  house wasnt caused  by subsidence. I havent 
seen any other expert opinion about  it, so I think esure acted reasonably when  it declined  to 
deal with this part of the claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
deal with the subsidence claim for the conservatory;
consider the subsidence claim for the garage.
Both subject  to the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020. 
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2230292