K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about her mortgage  with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. She says 
that the balance of her account isnt correct, that shes been over-charged  by being refused 
a new interest rate since 2010, and that Halifax wont accept  payments  from her bank 
account abroad.
background
Mrs B has had her mortgage with Halifax for many  years. She complained to us some years 
ago about the balance.  Another ombudsman issued a final decision in 2016, in which  he said 
that he had seen no evidence that Halifax had mis-calculated the balance. He said that if 
Mrs B produced an independent  audit which suggested otherwise the matter could be 
reconsidered, but based on the evidence available to him, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs B complains now that the balance wrong. She considers that its at least £57,000 higher 
than it should  be, based on the interest shes actually  been charged. She also thinks that 
shes been overcharged interest   because shes been on the standard variable  rate (SVR) 
of between 4% and 5% since 2010. If Halifax had given her a lower interest rate since then, 
she would  have paid less. And she also complains  that it wouldnt accept payment from her 
bank account  in the country in which she lives some of the time.
Our investigator said we couldnt look again  at the issue the previous ombudsman had 
considered in the absence of the evidence he had said would  be necessary. He didnt think 
Halifax had acted unfairly in keeping the mortgage on the SVR. And while he noted there 
had been some delay in applying Mrs Bs payment from abroad, it had credited her account 
within a few days so there  was no material  loss.
Mrs B didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B has been  concerned about her mortgage  account for some time.  Ive 
very carefully considered everything  that shes said. But, as the previous ombudsman  
explained, I dont  think theres evidence that anything has gone wrong.
Mrs B says that Halifax hasnt added  payments  made by the Department of Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to her mortgage. But I can see DWP payments on the mortgage  
statements, so Im satisfied Halifax has taken them into account. Mrs B hasnt identified any 
specific individual payments she believes have been missed.
Mrs B has also pointed  out that her balance is now around £330,000, although she only 
borrowed £270,000  (I have rounded these figures for ease).
Shes provided a recent email from her accountant. In that email, he makes the same point. 
He notes that her mortgage is in arrears, and the current  arrears  balance is around £38,000 
 meaning, he says, that theres an unexplained  discrepancy of £17,000.
Ref: DRN29612542But Im not persuaded there  is a discrepancy.  Where a mortgage is in arrears  as Halifaxs 
statements show this mortgage has been, for many years  thats because the monthly 
payments havent  been made  as expected.  The missed monthly payments form the arrears 
balance. But the consequence of missing  payments  isnt just the missed  payments 
themselves; they also mean that interest  that should  have been  paid off in that month hasnt 
been. And that in turn means  that the balance  is higher the next month   and more interest 
is charged than would otherwise be. That interest builds up  compounds   over time and 
where there  are large arrears the additional  interest can be substantial.
In addition, Halifax  like most lenders  charges fees for managing arrears, and so do its 
solicitors if it takes repossession action, though Halifax  has refunded some fees in this case.
As the previous ombudsman explained, were not an auditing service  and cant  carry out a 
detailed audit of Mrs Bs mortgage.  But Ive looked at the statements and transaction  history  
Halifax has issued, and I havent seen anything that leads me to believe the balance  is 
incorrect. I dont think the difference between the arrears  balance and the increase in the 
main balance is evidence  that it has.
The previous  ombudsman has explained  that if Mrs B is able to provide a detailed audit that 
supports the errors she believes there  to have been, matters can be looked at again. But Im 
afraid I dont think the recent email shes sent from her accountant amounts to that evidence.  
As he explains in his email, hes not an expert  in how mortgages work  and hasnt  looked  at 
the full history of the account. And he hasnt audited the account. I dont think his brief 
comments amount to the evidence the previous ombudsman said would be necessary, and 
like him Ive seen nothing to suggest  that the balance  of the account has been  
mis-calculated.
Mrs B also says that shes been treated  unfairly and over-charged interest because  shes  
been kept on the SVR since her previous interest  rate expired in 2010.
Halifax has explained thats because shes not been  eligible for a new interest  rate since  
then. Mrs B was in arrears at the time. Shes explained  that was because she was caring for 
her parents  at the time, and Halifax was aware of the situation.  I can see that it agreed to 
capitalise her arrears  at the time. But the month after the capitalisation, the mortgage went 
straight back into arrears, and its been in arrears pretty  much  ever since.
According to Halifaxs policy,  a borrower in arrears is generally  not eligible  for a new interest  
rate. I dont think that means Mrs B was treated unfairly. While she was in arrears, there was 
a higher risk that her mortgage might have to end early  either  because  she sold the 
property, or because Halifax would have to repossess it. Fortunately, that didnt happen here 
 but it was a significant risk at the time. And if it did happen while the mortgage  was on 
fixed interest rate, an early repayment charge would be added  to the outstanding balance. 
So Halifax  wanted  the arrears paid off before it would  agree to a new rate, and I dont think  
that was unreasonable.
Its also important to note that the term of the mortgage ended  in 2015  (this is an interest 
only mortgage) and Mrs B was required to repay  the capital  at that point. In fact, she wasnt  
able to do so, and she and Halifax have been in discussion  about a way forward ever since. 
Once the term has ended, Halifax wouldnt generally  offer a new interest rate because  it 
expects the mortgage to be repaid imminently and a new rate would mean  an early 
repayment charge  being added to the balance. Again, I dont  think  this was unreasonable,  
and didnt result in unfairness  to Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN29612543For all those reasons, therefore,  I dont  think its unreasonable that Mrs B has been  on the 
SVR since 2010,  and I dont think shes been over-charged  interest as a result.
Finally, Ive looked at what happened with the payment  made from abroad.  I can see it took 
a couple of days to reach the mortgage  account  but it did do so. So I dont think  Mrs B has 
suffered any loss as a result of this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2961254