K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy he cant use The Co-operative Bank Plcs new mobile banking application. 
background
In December 2018 Co-op introduced a new mobile  banking application (app).  Mr H hasnt 
been able to use it. 
When he complained  to Co-op  they confirmed that his mobile phone  doesnt have the 
system requirements needed to support it. Mr H says he was told that an option  to solve  this 
would be for him to upgrade his mobile phone. He thinks its unfair that people who dont 
upgrade their mobile phone regularly cant access the new mobile banking app. He feels Co-
op should have  carried out further  research before they introduced it, and taken steps  to 
ensure all customers would be able to access it. 
Mr H is also unhappy with the way Co-op dealt with his complaint. He feels he wasnt given 
the opportunity  to fully formulate it after missing a telephone call from them.
 
Our adjudicator noted that the terms and conditions for Mr Hs account said that the bank 
might make changes to its online or mobile  banking services from time to time. And he said 
that a business is entitled  to make changes  to its systems, and explained our service  
wouldnt look to interfere  where a business has made a commercial decision. He also felt 
Co-op had taken reasonable steps to explain the changes to customers in good time. And 
that there  were alternative ways Mr H could access his accounts. 
Mr H still feels  that Co-op dismissed  his complaint  and didnt give him the chance to explain 
it fully. Our adjudicator  saw that Co-op had sent him a detailed  response explaining why they 
werent upholding the complaint, and letting him know he could refer to our service.  So he 
didnt recommend this aspect of his complaint should be upheld either. Mr H disagrees, so 
the case has been passed  to me to review.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr H used Co-ops previous mobile banking app and was happy with it. So I can understand 
why hes so frustrated  that he cant use their new app, and doesnt have access  to this 
service anymore. And I understand he feels strongly  about the matter on behalf  of any other  
customers who might be in a similar position  to himself. 
It isnt the role of this service to tell the bank what services - such  as mobile banking  - it 
should offer to its customers, or how it should make  these available to them.  This is a 
commercial decision for the Co-op to make. And as our adjudicator explained, we wouldnt 
look to interfere with this. So whilst I appreciate  Mr H will be disappointed, I cant  ask Co-op 
to make any changes to their mobile banking app.
Its my role to consider whether the Co-op treated Mr H, as an individual,  fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances  of this complaint. And, overall, Im satisfied that they did, for 
the same  reasons our adjudicator set out. Let me explain why.
Ref: DRN29496562Co-ops terms and conditions for their online and mobile banking  service state that they 
might make changes to the operating  system these services work with at any time. And they 
explain that some features may not be available on all platforms  or operating systems. Co-
op doesnt guarantee their customers access to a mobile banking app. So I cant  say they 
are treating  Mr H unfairly because he cant use it on his mobile  phone.
I can see that Co-op took steps to start telling customers about their new app several 
months ahead  of its release. They told customers that not all mobile  phone  operating  
systems would support  the new app. And they gave guidance to help customers identify 
whether or not they had a compatible device. So Im satisfied Mr H was given reasonable 
notice of the changes the Co-op were  making to their mobile  banking  app, and what this 
might mean for him. 
Ive also considered that although Mr H cant use the new mobile banking app, he can still 
access his accounts  on his mobile phone  if he wishes. Co-op explained that customers  who 
cant use their new app can still use online banking to access  their accounts  on desktops, 
mobiles and tablets. And I can see this guidance  is set out on their website. I appreciate that 
this isnt as convenient for Mr H as being  able to use the mobile banking app like he could  
before. But he does still have the ability to use his mobile phone  to make banking  
transactions. 
Mr H is unhappy he didnt  get the opportunity to discuss  his complaint further with Co-op 
before they sent him a final response letter. But in looking at whats  happened  here,  I havent 
seen anything that makes  me think Co-op have  treated Mr H unfairly, or that I feel would 
have changed  the outcome to his complaint.  
I understand why Mr H is frustrated. But the final response letter  did invite  him to ring Co-op 
if there was anything he hadnt  told them about  his complaint, or if he had any questions  
about the outcome. It also told him he could  refer to our service if he wasnt  happy with 
Co-ops response. So whilst Co-op  could have tried a bit harder to speak to Mr H about his 
complaint before they sent him a final response letter,  I dont think they acted  unreasonably  
here. And I dont feel they dismissed his concerns. 
Mr H was given the chance to formulate  his complaint to us in full. I can see hes asked 
questions about  the research Co-op did before they introduced the new app, but this isnt 
information Id expect them to share with him. I appreciate Mr H feels  Co-op should have 
consulted customers before introducing the app, and would have preferred that they delayed  
its release until they could  find a way to make  it accessible for all  but again there was no 
requirement for them to do this. So whilst  I know Mr H be disappointed, I havent found that 
Co-op made  a mistake or treated him unfairly  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2949656