K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will not refund some  disputed
transactions from two accounts. The first account  was a joint account  the second  in
Mrs Ms name alone. Both complaints are dealt with in this decision.
They are helped in this complaint by Mr G  but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as if
made by Mr M directly.
background
Mr M says that between May 2014  and July 2016 all debits (bar one) carried out on Mrs Ms
account and their joint account  with RBS were carried out without  their knowledge and
authority.
He says his daughter was looking after their finances for most  of this time  but by this he
doesnt mean she had been given access to these accounts. What he says is that she was
looking after Mrs M at the time who had suffered  a nervous breakdown and that he was
working long hours. She had been given access to an account  with another  bank   L  but
that was limited to withdrawing a certain amount of cash each week  to buy food.
Mr M says his daughter  was able to intercept all cards, PINs and statements for the two
RBS accounts  and this allowed her to use the accounts as she pleased. She was able to
intercept the post because until October 2014,  Mrs M was also working  so no one was at
their home for most of the day.
Mr Ms neighbour had told him that their daughter would  come to the house and check the
post box before seeing to their dog. Then  she would leave.
Two significant credits  were made  to the account in August 2015 and November 2015  just
over £35,000 and just over £32,000  respectively.
The one transaction which Mrs M is accepting she made  was a withdrawal in November
2015 for £8000. She says she failed to notice the reduced balance or any suspicious
transactions at that time.
Having opened  the accounts  in early 2014,  Mr M says he raised the issue about not having
received the card and PINs with his daughter  although its not clear  when this was. He
says every time he did this, she would  say she would chase the bank  but clearly never did.
It was only in the summer of 2016 when  she went missing from her home that Mr and Mrs M
became suspicious.  They  went to confront her but realised she had left. At her home they
said they found letters addressed to them from RBS and their cards for the relevant
accounts.
The matter  was reported to the police and their daughter  was arrested and interviewed.
However, no charges  followed. Mr M says she has not been in touch with her family  since.
When Mr M complained to RBS it did not uphold his complaint   so he came to this service.
Our investigator did not think she could ask RBS to do anymore. She (the investigator)  felt
that Mr and Mrs M had authorised these payments but denied doing  so. She highlighted the
inconsistencies in the evidence she had seen.
But Mr and Mrs M were  not happy with the response and asked for an ombudsmans
Ref: DRN26034522decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  - and having done so, I have arrived at
the same  outcome as the investigator but for slightly different reasons. This decision
explains why that is.  Both  RBS and Mr and Mrs M have had the opportunity  to respond.   
RBS made  no further submissions - but Mr M did.  I have  taken  these into account when 
making a final decision   but unfortunately,  they do not change the outcome.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account.
Mr M says neither he nor his wife were aware  that their daughter  was accessing the account
over this two-year period   but I dont think that can be right for a number of reasons. I think
its more likely than not that they gave their daughter access  to the account  perhaps in
limited circumstances   and she went on to use it for her own purposes.
Ive relied on the following in making  this finding:
- I think it is unlikely  Mr and Mrs M would allow the account to have been open for two
years and not question  the lack of cards, PIN or statements throughout that period.
RBS has also provided the returned  slip from the card on Mrs Ms account
suggesting the card had been received. I dont think the daughter would have sent
this back if she was trying to disguise her use/access to the account. Also, Mr M told
the fraud investigator  from RBS that he knew the card and PIN were on their way but
every time he raised the issue with his daughter,  she would delay chasing RBS. This
is in contrast to his evidence to this service  that he did not order  cards or PINs for
the accounts;
- The account opening  documents have the daughters email address  as the contact
email address for both Mr and Mrs M  so I think she might  have been  more involved
in the setting up and running  of the account than is being suggested;
- Its clear  from some  of the transactions on the account  that Mr and Mrs M were
benefitting from them i.e car insurance payments in the name of Mr M and rental
payments for a tenancy  in the name of Mr and Mrs M;
- online banking had been set up on the accounts  although RBS cannot  say when
that was. In order to do this, the person setting it up would have needed access to
personal and secure information which only Mr and Mrs M would have access to;
- Mr M says he had given his daughter access to an account held with L  including
the card and PIN. I think this demonstrates  their reliance and willingness to share
secure information with her;
Ref: DRN26034523- in the evidence from RBS staff at their local branch,  its clear  Mrs M went in on more
than the one occasion suggested to make  withdrawals. They also say Mrs M would
phone the branch to transfer  funds  between the accounts. On their evidence,  once
security had been passed,  the phone would be given to the daughter to continue  with
the transaction.  This  service does not have  these calls  but its evidence  from RBS which I 
have placed some weight on;
Its possible Mr and Mrs M may not have physically  made all the transactions themselves -
but that doesnt mean that RBS is liable to refund them.  If they gave their daughter authority
to use their accounts, or handed over their payment instruments (card and PIN or online
banking information), and she used these  as an extension of her authority, then the bank is
entitled to treat the account activity as being authorised and therefore entitled to debit
Mr and Mrs Ms account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2603452