K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains C D Fairfield Capital Limited  imposed unfair  charges  when  it was seeking
to negotiate an arrangement with her creditors. She wants the charges refunded.
background
Miss M tells us she found herself in a situation of negative  equity - when the proceeds from 
the sale of her home would not meet the outstanding mortgage liability. She says she hired 
CDF to try to negotiate a settlement of the shortfall  with the creditor who Ill call P. Miss M 
says she had to pay £800 in upfront fees and agreed to pay £3,000 success fee. But she 
says CDF charged her £3,000 - which she says she felt pressured  into paying  - even though 
it didnt reach a settlement with P.
CDF told us Miss M had agreed in phone  calls at the start of April 2016 to pay the fee if CDF 
progressed with negotiations on the basis of a lump sum settlement of £15,000 or less. It 
said the lender  had agreed to such a settlement  and had agreed for a 12 week  extension  to 
allow for receipt of the funds.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 October  2018 in which  I indicated  my 
intention to uphold  the complaint.
Since then Miss M has acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but has not 
provided any additional comment or evidence. CDF has replied at length emphasising its 
disagreement with my provisional view and raising some additional points for my 
consideration. But its not provided any additional evidence. Ive considered  the 
representations made  but Im not minded to change my provisional decision. Ill deal with the 
additional points  raised in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss M has been through a very upsetting experience and Im sorry she 
encountered such unfortunate circumstances.  I also accept that at the time the repossession  
and negotiations about potential settlements  were  going on shed have been experiencing 
considerable worry and stress. So I can see why she felt under pressure to do whatever she 
thought was needed to reach an affordable settlement.
CDF has challenged  my assessment of what it describes as Miss Ms state of mind  and 
mental health and feels  what it describes as unqualified judgments have been  made  
without evidence and have prejudiced the outcome of the complaint.
Id like to make clear that any observations regarding the effect  upon  Miss M of the 
circumstances in which she found  herself   are based both on what  she has told us and
reasonable inferences to be drawn from the facts. Anyone faced with losing  their home and 
facing substantial debt is likely to feel stress.  Thats not saying it was caused by CDF - its 
simply acknowledging the situation.  
Any expression of concern  and empathy is merely  a normal response to an individual in 
difficulty and has no bearing  or influence on the outcome of the complaint.
Ref: DRN27650012Id point out that CDF was allowed very generous  time limit extensions when its complaint 
handler became  ill - to ensure its ability to present its case  would not be prejudiced by this 
unforeseen occurrence.
Ive seen evidence  of a large amount of contact by CDF with various parties.  And theres no 
doubt negotiations were  going on - and various options for settlement were  canvassed.  So I 
do not doubt CDF put a good  deal of work into this case.
Theres also been reference by both parties  and the investigator to the terms and conditions  
which applied to the agreement. So its important I explain my role. This service  offers  an 
informal resolution service and decisions are based  on what  an ombudsman   thinks  is fair 
and reasonable.  Thats  a different standard to that which a court would apply. And so its not 
for me to say if the terms and conditions form a legally valid contract. Nor - assuming there is 
a contract - is it for me to decide if either party has complied with its obligations under that 
contract. But I do take account of the law - so Im entitled to consider the agreement in 
reaching the outcome I feel is correct.
The key to this complaint  seems to me to revolve  around events which  took place from the 1 
April 2016 and several weeks thereafter. At that time CDF had made  an offer to P. Through 
its solicitors, P had replied  and in summary  said it would only accept a lump sum payment of 
£10,000. It said this was a final offer.
For the avoidance of doubt I am advised  that this is our Clients  final position and I am 
therefore not in a position to negotiate any counter proposals.
CDF informed Miss M who made it clear she could not raise this sum.
In its response CDF seemingly infers  I should disregard this evidence.
This may contribute  to the wrong  opinion that negotiations of this type with a lender would 
not be possible and a settlement could not have been reached  beyond that point.
And it seeks to support  this contention by referring to the lender later agreeing to an 
extension of the time period for repayment.
The fact remains that the lenders position remained unchanged as to the sum repayable. 
And Miss M had made clear she couldnt raise this sum. Ive seen no evidence that CDF had 
any reasonable grounds for believing a short  extension  would alter this fact. 
There was further  contact on 4 April between CDF and Miss M - in which CDF said it thought 
it could still reach a settlement with P. An email of 4 April concludes:
On this basis the completion fee of £3,000  will be due upon reaching a settlement.
On 8 April CDF received  further confirmation in a phone call that P would not accept other  
than the £10,000 lump  sum.
Ref: DRN27650013I can see during the next few weeks a further  sequence of emails was exchanged  between 
CDF and Miss M. These dont seem  to have progressed the matter any further.  And whilst 
the lender did offer to accept the £10,000  in two tranches  (£3,000  and the balance in 12 
weeks) Miss M repeated she could not raise this sum. Consideration was also given to an 
Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA) - which would have involved a further  fee being 
payable - but this was not pursued.
It was during this period that further  reference  was made to the need for Miss M to pay the 
£3,000 fee - and Miss M confirmed this had been paid on 1 June 2016. It seems shortly  after 
this that contact between CDF and Miss M ceased.
Whilst its clear  negotiations took place and proposals were  made  - at no stage can it be said 
any agreement was reached which might properly be described as other than potential. 
Theres certainly no evidence of a final settlement and P has confirmed no settlement  
occurred.
Ive considered the terms and conditions and the relevant part of these reads:
The balance of the professional fee is payable immediately upon a) the conclusion of the 
services in full or b) a debt settlement  being agreed  with the relevant creditor,  lender or 
supervisor/insolvency practitioner (as applicable), whichever is earlier,  PROVIDED  THAT 
where we are unable  to bring the Services to a successful conclusion (other  than for reasons 
due to your fault or omission or withdrawal or breach of the terms),  We shall bear our own 
costs for this tranche alone .
It seems  to me this creates two circumstances  when the fee would  become  payable. But as 
b) relates  to a debt settlement being agreed I dont think it applies here. No such  settlement 
was agreed - as opposed to a proposal  as to the basis  on which a settlement might follow.  
CDF argues  its entitled to charge the fee as it had concluded its services. Its solicitor  
referred me to clause  4 of the agreement and in particular it said:
The definition of services  includes, at 4.33:
"negotiating with your creditors  in relation  to a potential debt settlement."
And it went on:
It is clear  from consideration of this sub clause,  and taking into account clause 4 as a whole, 
that the "conclusion  of services In full" (as identified above) does not require a debt 
settlement to have  been "concluded" or "accepted" by the complainant.
I dont disagree with the view that a fee may be payable even where there isnt a successful 
outcome. But that depends upon  the existence  of one of the exceptions listed.  In summary I 
think this would require  CDF to show there was some fault or other  unreasonable  conduct by 
Miss M which caused what would otherwise have been a successful conclusion  to fail.
Ive not seen any evidence of this - and as far as I can see Miss M made clear throughout 
the constraints  which her financial  position placed  upon her capacity to agree to any 
proposed settlement.
Ref: DRN27650014So I do not accept  that simply entering  into negotiations - and putting forward  a proposal 
(regardless of the ability of the client to meet the terms) meets  the requirement. Were it so, 
there would be no point in that part of the terms under  which the business says it will bear its 
own costs. They could  never come about.
On 4 April CDF emailed Miss M I believe we can reach a settlement with P. I cant see any 
reasonable basis for such a claim - as P had set out its position in unequivocal  terms in its 
rejection of the earlier offer. And it seems to me CDF encouraged Miss M to allow  it to 
pursue negotiations even  though it was aware she could not raise £10,000 as required.  
Given her situation I can see why Miss M would be willing to try almost  anything - however 
improbable the likelihood  of success.  And I think CDF would have been aware  of this. 
Unsurprisingly the further negotiations failed to produce a settlement.
Im of the view that Miss M reasonably believed that shed not be required to pay any extra  
fees - apart from the initial £800 - unless a final settlement  was concluded. And whilst CDF 
has suggested she agreed to pay the fee if it continued with negotiations from April - 
irrespective of a successful conclusion - I dont agree. The email  of 4 April to which  Ive 
referred earlier and contains the fee demand is clearly conditional upon reaching  a 
settlement.
Its not apparent  why Miss M would  need  to agree to anything  in addition to the original  
agreement. The evidence Ive seen shows those later negotiations were no more than a 
continuation of the original process - and were based on the same  contingencies.
In summary,  I do not think the conditions requiring Miss M to make  the final payment were 
fulfilled. No settlement  was made  and services  were concluded without a successful 
outcome. CDF has failed  to demonstrate  this was due to any fault on Miss Ms part
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  
Im ordering  CD Fairfield  Capital Limited to refund Miss Ms payment of £3,000  together with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement.
As Miss M is currently subject to an IVA this is payable to the relevant Insolvency  
Practitioner. In order to ensure Miss M is not identified Ive provided these details separately:
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2765001