K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the refurbishment  charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance, asked him to pay on return  of his lease car.
background 
Mr M took receipt of a new car in October  2016.  He financed the deal through a two year 
hire agreement with VWFS. 
When he handed the car back at the end of the term the car was inspected and VWFS sent 
him a bill. They said the following work  was required to return  it to the contractual  condition:
area repair charge
front bumper unsatisfactory repair £18.00
rear bumper scratched £55.20
LHR door unsatisfactory repair £138.00
RHR door second dent per vehicle £138.00
LHR quarter panel unsatisfactory repair £110.40
RHF wing scratched £21.00
Mr M disputed the charges and he was disappointed the report had been completed in his 
absence and he hadnt had the opportunity  to challenge the findings. He said hed had the 
repairs completed before he returned  the car and he was disappointed  VWFS  didnt accept 
theyd been sufficient.
VWFS didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint so he referred it to this service and our investigator  
provided his opinion. He reviewed the photographs in the inspection  report  and compared  
them to the industry  guidelines on what should  be considered fair wear and tear that he 
explained were  provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He 
thought the damage in each case was clearly shown to be excessive and was therefore 
chargeable. But he didnt think the photographs showed the scratch  on the wing to be in 
excess of the 25mm stipulated by the BVRLA guidance. So he thought VWFS  should  
remove this charge.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He could  not see the rippling that the investigator 
said was present in some  of the repairs and he still insisted  there  was no evidence  to 
support the charges VWFS  were making.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr M so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN22665152board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The terms of Mr Ms finance agreement allowed VWFS charge him for any refurbishment 
work required to bring the car back  to a good  standard. 
The BVRLA set the industry guidelines about what should be considered fair wear  and tear 
when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease periods. So Ive reviewed the damage to 
the car that is evidenced in the inspection photographs. Our investigator  correctly set out the 
standards for each area of damage. In all cases I agree with his view that the damage  would 
be considered  beyond normal wear and tear and should be chargeable.  However, I dont 
think the scratch on the wing is greater than 25mm  so I dont think VWFS should  charge for 
that.
The BVRLA guidance suggests  it is better that the consumer is present when the inspection 
takes place but theres no requirement for that and I dont think it would therefore be fair to 
suggest VWFS did anything wrong  when they inspected the car in Mr Ms absence.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to refund or remove (if its already been paid) the charge for 
the scratch to the wing of £21.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2266515