K820x#14complaint
Mr B1, Mrs J, Mrs F and Mr B2 as executors of the late Mr B complain that Nationwide  
Building Society allowed a third party, other  than the executors and representatives  of the 
late Mr B, to register  his death. It also told them that the third party had control  of the 
account.
background
The executors visited  Nationwide  to register the late Mr Bs death and to withdraw the 
money from his account. Whilst  there they found out that a third party had already registered 
the death and they say they were told that this third party now had control of the account. 
They couldnt withdraw the money and close the account. They think Nationwide  was wrong 
to allow  the third party to take control  of the account.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  He accepted that it must have 
been quite upsetting for the executors  to learn that someone had already registered the late 
Mr Bs death  with the Nationwide. He thought they might have been given wrong  or 
confusing information  when they visited the branch but he was satisfied that the third party 
did not have any control  over the account.  
The executors responded to say, in summary, that they remain  concerned  that Nationwide  
provided the third party with information  about the account. It has also caused the family 
considerable upset and stress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A few days  after the death of the late Mr B the executors of his estate  visited  Nationwide  to 
close his account  and to provide the death  certificate and other documents. I understand 
fully the upset and shock they felt when Nationwide told them that the death  had already  
been registered. 
I have looked  carefully  at the process  Nationwide has in place when it is notified of the death 
of one of its customers and what happened in the late Mr Bs case. Nationwide  will only 
register the death once it has been provided  with a copy of the original death certificate. This 
can be done by anyone who knew the deceased.  It will then update the account to 
safeguard it so that no activity can take place  on it until it has seen either the Grant  of 
Probate or Letters of Administration.  It also stops any marketing material being sent out.
When the executors  went to notify Nationwide about  Mr Bs death  they found  out that this 
had already been done by a third party. Im satisfied that this person was known to the 
deceased and Nationwide  didnt make any mistake  by recording the details or updating the 
account. 
I consider that the third party also told Nationwide that he was the Personal  Representative  
and that he would be applying for Grant of Probate.  At that stage, I dont think  Nationwide 
had any reason to doubt what it was told. It followed its normal  process of writing  to him to 
set out the next steps and saying that it would  need to see the original  sealed  Grant  of 
Probate before it could  close  the account.  I know the executors feel that the third partys  
Ref: DRN26833292reason for doing this was to cause stress on the family and that he might  have  committed a 
fraudulent act. But this is a matter between the parties concerned and not one in which  it 
was appropriate  for the bank to become involved.
I accept that Nationwide sent details  of the balance  of the account  at the date of death to the 
third party. It says it did this to aid in the application of probate  as it believed that the third 
party was the late Mr Bs representative. I dont consider the estate has suffered a loss 
because of this but if the executors have any concerns about a potential data breach, this is 
a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)  and not one I can examine.
The executors have been consistent in saying that Nationwide  led them to believe that the 
third party had control of the account. Although I cant say exactly what was said at the 
meeting I dont doubt their recollection. But Im satisfied that Nationwide had put a block  on 
the account so that no activity could take place until probate  had been  obtained.  This meant  
that neither the true executors nor the third party had control or could operate the account at 
that time.  
The executors have said that they expected to be able to close  the account when they first 
visited Nationwide. Even though they had a copy of the death certificate and a copy of the 
late Mr Bs will, despite the situation  with the third party, I find they wouldnt have been able 
to do this. As Ive explained above, nothing  could be withdrawn and the account could not be 
closed until Nationwide  had seen the original  sealed  probate, which  they didnt have at that 
time.
I appreciate the executors strength of feeling about  this matter and I know they feel 
aggrieved at how the account has been  handled, causing them upset and distress, for which 
they feel they should be awarded some compensation. As the investigator has explained, we 
cant generally order banks to pay compensation to someone acting  as an executor, for any 
upset or inconvenience the executors themselves  have suffered. That is because,  strictly 
speaking, complaints such as the executors have made about their own time and 
inconvenience fall outside our scope,  because the late Mr B was the banks customer.  So 
there is no basis for me to order Nationwide to pay them compensation. 
I realise that the executors  have spent some time and effort pursuing this complaint against 
Nationwide, and that this is very important to them. However, Im afraid that, for the reasons 
set out above,  Im not able to uphold their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr B1, Mrs J, Mrs F and Mr B2 as executors of the estate of the late Mr B, to accept or reject 
my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683329