K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds unhappy with the time its taken for Calpe  Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) to 
investigate and settle his claim on his motor  insurance policy.  He says it hasnt kept him 
updated or given  him clear answers about  whats happening. Mr D says the delays have 
caused him severe anxiety and distress. 
Any reference to Calpe  includes its agents.  
background
Mr D took out a motor  insurance policy with Calpe in December 2017 to cover his car. Whilst 
there were no monthly premiums for him to pay, if he made  a claim on the policy  for anything 
other than the windscreen, he would need to pay a high excess  of £3,000.
In March 2018 Mr D says he advertised  his car for sale online. He says, the same day, he 
received a call from someone interested in viewing the car. The viewing was arranged  for 
the following  day  6 March 2018.  Mr D told Calpe  the person  who went to see his car stole  
his key by snatching it out of his hand  when he was walking back home. And although Mr D 
tried to chase after them,  he was unsuccessful and they drove  off in his car.
Mr Ds explained he called the police to report the incident shortly  afterwards and was given 
a crime reference  number. And he contacted  Calpe the following day to make a claim. Calpe 
arranged an interview  with Mr D to discuss the incident and get further documentation. From 
then until January 2020, it was investigating the claim.
As part of its investigations, Calpe said it needed the police report from the time Mr D told 
them about  the incident. Initially,  it asked  Mr D to get it himself but later requested it after 
being instructed  that was the normal process.  The report wasnt received until January 2020. 
Mr D was in regular contact with Calpe to find out what  was happening with his claim and to 
move things along. And in February  2019  he complained to our service  as he thought  Calpe 
should decide his claim without the police report. Our investigator  didnt  uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint. He thought Calpe was entitled  to wait for the report and had kept Mr D updated 
while it was waiting. 
After the investigators  assessment, Calpe told us the police report  had been received  and it 
gave us a copy.  The report said Mr D told the police  the car was stolen when he handed the 
car key to the person  viewing it after they said they wanted to take it for a test drive.  He said 
he was just about to get into the passenger seat when the person drove off. As Mr D had 
given a different  version of events to Calpe, it declined his claim and pointed  to the policy  
terms excluding any loss caused by deception.  As the case hadnt been  resolved, it was 
passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2020.  I explained  I didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld or Calpe had acted unreasonably in summary  because:
It said it needed the police report to corroborate what  Mr D had said had happened  
during the theft  to ensure the loss didnt fall within in the exclusions of the policy. 
Ref: DRN28855602I accepted insurers  need to investigate  their claims but I thought it had taken a very 
long time for the police report to be obtained. And I didnt  think  it was fair or 
necessary for investigations to go on endlessly.
I could see Mr D regularly contacted Calpe  but I thought  this was to find out why 
the report hadnt been received and why the claim hadnt been decided  without it.
I thought about  the police report  and specifically that it highlighted inconsistencies 
in what Mr D had said. And I didnt think things wouldve gone on for as long as they 
did if hed given  an accurate account of what had happened when he made  his claim.
responses to my provisional  findings
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Calpe 
said it accepted  the provisional decision and didnt have any further comments to make. 
Mr D didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change  my conclusions set 
out in my provisional  decision. So for the same  reasons set out above  and in my provisional 
decision, I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2885560