K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society has rejected a number of direct  
debit payment requests.
background
Mr and Mrs A say they switched their account to Nationwide in 2018 but it has been rejecting 
direct debit requests  for payments from a number of different companies and organisations. 
Mr A says hes spent hours  of his professional time trying to sort matters out and would like 
a substantial amount  of compensation. He also says his reputation  has suffered as well as 
his credit score.
Nationwide says its looked into whats happened  and has explained why the direct debits 
were rejected. It says incorrect  references  were used by some companies  or incorrect 
details. And in the case of one company I will call M says the problem was caused  by its 
system problems. Nationwide accepts it didnt immediately look into one of Mr As direct  
debit issues and has paid £75 compensation for that.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us but our investigator didnt think  Nationwide  had 
made a mistake in rejecting the direct debit payments. He thought Nationwides  records  
provided evidence  that the mistake was with the various merchants as the references or 
account details  didnt appear  to match.
Mr and Mrs A dont  accept that view and say their previous bank did not reject payments in 
this way and say that the various merchants all blame Nationwide. They wish to be 
compensated for what has happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed by my decision 
and I appreciate how long they have been waiting  for an ombudsmans  decision.
I accept that a large number of Mr and Mrs As direct  debits  were  rejected by Nationwide.  
But I have looked  at Nationwides records and I cant see any evidence  that it made  a 
mistake. Im satisfied that Nationwide has looked into the rejected  direct debits and provided 
an explanation  for the reasons they were rejected.  And has explained that either  the 
merchant has provided an incorrect reference or details or in the case of one, an attempt  
was made  to claim a payment before it should have. Im also satisfied that Nationwide fairly  
asked its relevant departments to make sure that its systems  or IT were  not at fault and that 
enquiry found  there were no such problems.
So on balance I have  not seen any evidence that suggests that Nationwide  caused the 
problems or that it acted  unfairly by rejecting the direct debits. I accept that due to the large 
number of rejections  Nationwide ought to have looked carefully  into what  had happened to 
make sure it wasnt  responsible. But for the reasons  I have explained Im satisfied 
Nationwide did carry out those checks.  Mr and Mrs A havent told me that the problems have 
continued which I think suggests on balance that Nationwide wasnt responsible  for what 
took place.
Ref: DRN23245822There is no doubt that Nationwide didnt deal with part of this complaint as it should  but I can 
see that its apologised and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of £75 
compensation. I appreciate thats  not the main  part of this complaint in any event.
Overall as I cant be sure that Nationwide  was responsible for the rejected direct  debits  I 
cant fairly ask it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate  
that Mr and Mrs A will remain  disappointed  by my decision and will have  unanswered 
questions about  why the direct debits failed. But I think that brings  an end to what  we in 
trying to sort out this complaint informally can do. I should also make clear to Mr and Mrs A 
that we would not award compensation based  on someones professional time in any event, 
as that person would  not be acting  in a professional capacity when bringing  a complaint in 
these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2324582