K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr A are unhappy with the quality of the work carried out by esure Insurance  
Limited when repairing  their damaged driveway.
background
Mrs and Mr As block paved driveway suffered a partial collapse which esure  accepted was 
covered by their home insurance  policy. The damage was to a manhole cover  which  needed 
replacing along with the bricks  around it. 
From the outset there  were problems with the repair. The new bricks werent a good  match  
for the existing bricks and the man hole was raised above the level of the driveway.  A further 
repair rectified the problem of the raised  cover but I understand  that at some point a tyre was 
damaged by the raised area before it was rectified.  I believe that esure paid for the damaged  
tyre. But it remained the case that the bricks were not a good match and Mrs and Mr A were 
unhappy with the appearance.  
They were  also unhappy at the difficulties  theyd experienced in communicating  with esure 
and its agents.  They were particularly unhappy  that they were  expected  to arrange and 
manage the visits of the repair company and felt that the work  was disorganised and 
confused, including a visit by one agent to carry out an oil clean-up when there were no oil 
spillages.
The problems with the repair and communication were accepted  by esure  who made two 
offers of compensation totalling £500.  It offered to arrange one more visit from the agent to 
carry out a process  to age the new bricks. It felt that the problems with the bricks  
appearance were no more than the difference in age between the new and old and that it 
wasnt possible to achieve a better  match without  some form of cosmetic  treatment which  it 
was prepared to arrange. As an alternative  esure offered a payment  of £200 to allow  Mrs 
and Mr A to arrange the work  themselves.
Mrs and Mr A were  so unhappy with the previous work of the agent  that they declined the 
offer of another  visit and accepted the £200.
I understand that at one point Mrs and Mr A argued  that the whole driveway  should  be 
replaced with the new bricks but esure felt that wasnt appropriate and not covered by the 
policy. 
The complaint came to this service and the adjudicator felt that esure had made appropriate  
offers to settle  the claim  and didnt need  to do anything more. Mrs and Mr A have argued 
that they are entitled to more compensation than has been offered. They explained the 
distress theyd felt and the inconvenience  experienced  by what  they felt was the poor service  
offered by esure  and its agents  and the remaining issues with the appearance of the 
repaired area of driveway. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicators view on this 
dispute. I think that what esure has already  paid is sufficient compensation for the problems 
with this claim.
Ref: DRN20844722I will confirm immediately that I agree with esure  that a claim of this type is properly dealt 
with by the repair of the damaged area rather than the replacement of the whole driveway. 
To require  more would  be to go beyond the cover  provided by an indemnity insurance  policy. 
I also believe that the finish to the driveway  is of an appropriate quality to be acceptable. It is 
a natural consequence of a repair of this type that there will not be a perfect match between 
new and old bricks. Ive considered the photographs  provided and I recognise  that the repair 
remains visible and is notably different  in wet weather. But I dont believe that the difference 
is enough to make the repair  inadequate.  
I also note that esure made an offer to age the bricks and Mrs and Mr A declined the offer 
but accepted a £200 payment instead.  While I understand  that they were unhappy with the 
previous work of the company Im not satisfied that made esures offer inappropriate. In fact 
the main concern with this agent was that it had wrongly instructed a company to attend to 
clean an oil spill when there  wasnt one. That had been a misunderstanding and I note that 
Mrs and Mr A were  later upset when this led to a disagreement during a telephone 
conversation. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the agent  couldnt have done a 
proper job of ageing  the bricks and so removing or reducing the problem. And Mrs and Mr A 
accepted an alternative offer of a cash payment.
On the issue of poor service and the appropriate  level of compensation there are a number 
of factors to consider.  Since the adjudicators view, Mrs A has told us that she cares  for her 
sister and that the routines were disrupted due to this work. I cant require compensation be 
paid for problems experienced by someone  other  than the insured. But Mrs A mentions the 
stress that she herself experienced because of the disruption to her sisters care.  Weve  also 
been told about the amounts of time that Mrs A felt that she and her husband needed  to stay 
at the home to meet and then to observe the repair work. Clearly  some of those visits were  
unsuccessful due to the initial problem with the raised manhole cover and then the later 
issue of the visit for the non-existent oil spill. Mrs and Mr A were also unhappy  at having to 
deal direct with agents of esure and felt that this was stressful  and inconvenient.
I think that its important to remember that any insurance claim such  as this involves the 
inconvenience of having repairs carried out. I would expect  the insurer to compensate only 
for the additional  and avoidable  problems that are caused by it or its agents. And when I 
consider the entirety of this claim I think that the amounts paid in compensation already  are 
at least as high as any award  which  I would have made myself. This was a claim for a 
relatively small repair to an outside  space.  It didnt require the policy  holders to live in and 
endure a damaged property, such as would be the case  with an internal repair.  And agents 
were able to attend  without needing  access to the property meaning that Mrs and Mr A didnt 
need to be in attendance  at all times.  Ultimately  this was a repair  which took several  weeks  
to conclude and while it needed too much effort on the part of the policy holders to chase 
and challenge  progress Im not satisfied that it needed  the levels of disruption to daily life 
that Mrs and Mr A suggest.  
Im not satisfied that esure or its agents  failings  were  such as to justify any more payments 
than already offered. That includes £500 compensation for poor service, a £200  payment 
that Mrs and Mr A chose instead of a further  repair, and a £25 payment for a damaged tyre.
If esure  has yet to make any of those payments then it should do so immediately. Beyond 
that I dont  require it to do any more to conclude this claim and dispute.     
Ref: DRN20844723my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2084472