K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about the cost of her pet insurance policy with Allianz Insurance Plc. She
says its too expensive for the level of cover  it offered.
Background
In my provisional decision of 12 May 2020 I set out why I didnt think  Mrs Ws complaint
should be upheld.  A copy  of the provisional decision  is attached and forms part of this final
decision. I invited  both parties  to provide any further  information they wanted  me to consider
before I reached my final decision. Neither  Mrs W or Allianz had any further to add.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments already sent to us to decide
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any
new evidence, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision, for
the same  reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN29339102Copy of Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mrs W is unhappy  about  the cost of her pet insurance  policy with Allianz Insurance Plc. She
says its too expensive  for the level of cover it offered.
Background
In 2012 Mrs W took out a pet insurance  policy, with a maximum benefit  level of £4,000 per policy year 
for her dog. The policy was underwritten by Allianz.
In 2018 Mrs W says she was surprised  to learn that her dogs policy still had a maximum benefit  level 
of £4,000. She says that she had asked Allianz several  years ago to increase the maximum benefit  
level to £7,000  per policy year and is unhappy they didnt  action this. She thinks  that she has still 
been paying for the higher  level of cover but that her policy wasnt amended to reflect this.
One of the main reasons  Mrs W believes  Allianz have made  a mistake is because  her mothers policy  
was less expensive. From the information given to us by Mrs W the maximum benefit level of her 
mothers policy was £7,000 per policy year. Mrs W says she cant understand why she was paying 
more for a lower  level of cover - as their dogs are a very similar age, same breed  and living at the 
same address. She says this cant be right and is unfair.
Mrs W is also unhappy  with the level of service  she has been  provided with by Allianz since
raising her complaint. And says they have been insensitive following the sad passing of her
dog.
Allianz say they have  no record of Mrs W requesting  an increase in the level of cover  on her
dogs policy and that Mrs Ws premium has been calculated correctly  for the risk presented
to them.
But they agree Mrs Ws experience of their level of service in response to her complaint
could have been better and offered to pay her £125 in recognition of this. Mrs W did not want  to 
accept this and asked Allianz not to send  the money.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz have  provided us with all the calls they have a record of for Mrs W. In a call from May 2017,  
when Mrs W rang to set up a different policy  for her other dog, she did ask about  increasing  the level 
of cover on her existing policy. But she was told as the policy wasnt up for renewal  at that time,  so 
shed need to call back to do this. There is no record she called back  to do this. Mrs W thinks Allianz 
havent provided  all the calls she made to them.
When I have conflicting information, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  what  
I think  is most likely  to have happened  taking into account  all the information provided and all that 
has been said. I dont doubt its Mrs Ws honest recollection
that she asked for the cover  to be amended. But I have to take account  of the fact she herself  has not 
been clear  about when she says she did this. She mentioned that she increased it four to five years 
ago when she first complained. But I can see from the call in 2017 that it was still set at £4,000 and 
Mrs W was aware  of that at the time. And I have no reason to think Allianz are withholding calls from 
us. So I think its unlikely that she called back in June 2017  when her dogs policy was due for 
renewal and increased the benefit level.
Ref: DRN29339103In our assessment we pointed to the fact that Allianz sent Mrs W her renewal documents  each year 
and these contained the benefit level of her policy. So wed have expected her to have reviewed 
these and if it had not been what she was expecting raised it with Allianz sooner  than she did. But I do 
think its possible Mrs W didnt  get the 2018 renewal documents because from the information  we 
have, it looks like shed moved address. I cant
see that Mrs W told Allianz this at the time.
The fact that Mrs Ws policy was under a different address  may also go some way to explain the cost 
difference between Mrs W and her mothers policy.  Allianz have  confirmed this was one of the factors 
that affected the price.  They have also pointed to the fact that they update their prices regularly  and 
as Mrs W and her mothers  policies were sold at different  times and under a different address,  they 
wouldnt have had the same  premium despite the similarities  in their dogs.  I hope this helps Mrs W 
understand the price  difference.
Allianz have  also confirmed to me what they meant  by technical issue  in their final response letter 
and miscalculation when Mrs W called them (following her payments decreasing). They  say their 
systems had not reflected the change of Mrs Ws address in the premium price, so this was then 
manually corrected  which explains the new, lower, premium. Although the change would normally 
take affect from the next renewal date. Allianz  say they backdated this to her June 2018 renewal, as a 
gesture of goodwill.  I dont think it was a quick attempt  by Allianz to cover their tracks   as Mrs W 
suggests. But I can understand  why it was confusing for her, as the reason for the reduction in price  
wasnt made clear at the time.
Its important to explain  that businesses are entitled  to decide how much to charge  for the insurance  
cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business what  its insurance  should cost.  I 
would be, in effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. 
So I cant say the cost of Mrs Ws policy was too high or she should have been charged less for the 
policy.
While I know Mrs W thinks her policy was too expensive for the level of cover it provided, I havent  
seen any evidence to suggest Allianz  were charging her for a higher level of cover than she was 
receiving. And I dont think she has been treated any differently to how Allianz would have treated any 
other policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say they have singled her out and treated her 
unfairly compared  to their other  customers.
I can see Allianz have recognised their level of service  in response to Mrs Ws complaint could have 
been better. And that they say they have taken on the feedback to learn  from it. I think their offer of 
£125 is fair.
I know it will be disappointing to Mrs W, but having carefully reviewed  everything,  I dont think she has 
lost out from anything  Allianz has done wrong, and I wont be asking them  to
do anything more.
My provisional decision
Im not currently thinking  of upholding  Mrs Ws complaint.
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 26 May 2020. I will then consider  any 
responses I receive and issue  my final decision.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2933910