K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a loan. 
background
In March 2000, Mr B took out a loan for £8000 with Nationwide. At the same time, he was 
sold a single premium  PPI policy. As this was a single premium,  he had to borrow  an extra 
£1048.47 on top of his loan to pay for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr B disagreed with that view. So the matter has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B, but I havent  upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that this policy was sold to Mr B over the telephone. I havent been  given a 
copy of that call recording, which isnt surprising given that the PPI was sold 18 years ago. 
Businesses arent required to keep  call recordings indefinitely. Ive looked at what  Mr B 
remembers about the sale. But I cant say that his recollection is accurate. Thats  because  in 
his PPI questionnaire,  although he gave us the account number of the loan, he made  
reference to a different financial product. So to help me decide whats  likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at the paperwork thats available  from the time. 
I can see from the loan agreement that PPI was described fairly prominently as optional  
credit insurance. So I think its likely  the person who sold this to Mr B would have likely 
presented the PPI in the same way. From the paperwork, I think its clear that the PPI wasnt 
a condition of the mortgage. 
I think Nationwide probably suggested that Mr B take PPI out. But I dont think  it advised him 
to do so. I say this because I havent  seen anything to suggest  that Nationwides 
recommendation was tailored to Mr Bs personal circumstances. Even  so, it still had to give 
him enough information about the PPI so he could decide for himself whether it was a good 
fit for his needs. 
I think its entirely possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mr B everything  it should have done 
about the cover. So the question for me now is whether hed still have taken the policy  if 
Nationwide had told him everything  it should  have done. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the policy,  Mr Bs loan repayments would have 
been covered  for up to 12 months  if hed lost his job or if he was unwell. He told us that hed 
have got 30 days  sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work. So I think the PPI would  
have paid out for quite a lot longer than his sick pay. 
Ref: DRN23982812Mr B told us that his family would have been able to help out if he was out of work. And I 
dont doubt it would  have been the intention of those family members to help if Mr B was in 
financial difficulty. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that help would 
have been available as and when  Mr B needed  it. 
Mr B told us he was in good health  when this policy  was sold. So I dont think hed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  seen 
anything unusual about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped him from 
making a successful claim if he needed to. 
As this was a single premium policy, Ive checked  whether Mr B would  have got a 
proportionate refund if he cancelled the PPI early. This is important because for some  
policies, only a small portion of the premium would  be refunded  in those circumstances.  But I 
can see that Mr B would have had a pro rata refund. So that means if he cancelled the policy 
half way through,  he would  have got half of his premium back. 
With all of this in mind, I think PPI could have  been  helpful to Mr B if he found  himself out of 
work. I appreciate he doesnt now remember, but I think he probably  knew  he didnt  have to 
take PPI out if he didnt  want  to. Overall, I dont think Mr B would have  acted differently if 
hed been given more or better  information  about the PPI. I think hed have still taken this 
policy out. 
As I said,  I am sorry to disappoint Mr B. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I havent 
upheld the complaint. 
my final decision
I havent upheld  this complaint, so I dont need  to tell Nationwide Building Society to take any 
further action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2398281