K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Metro Bank PLC mistakenly took money from his bank account with 
them.
background
Mr T says that in November 2018, Metro Bank took a payment of £918.60  from his account 
in error.  He says Metro  Bank werent entitled  to take the money. This left him overdrawn. 
And he was given no warning the money  would  be taken.
In August  2018,  a payment of £918.60  was made  to a car rental company from Mr Ts 
account. This was an error on the part of the car rental company. 
They had processed the payment to cover  damage  to a rental vehicle whilst it had been in 
Mr Ts possession. The accident  which caused  the damage was the fault of a third party. 
Their insurer has paid for the damage. 
When he returned the car, Mr T rightly didnt accept  liability. The rental company 
nonetheless processed the payment to charge him for the damage  which they admit was 
an error.
Mr T asked  Metro  Bank to carry out a chargeback for the payment given that he hadnt 
authorised it. They  agreed  to look into it. And they say they gave Mr T a temporary refund to 
cover the payment. Mr T says he never had a temporary refund.
After Metro Bank took out £918.60  from his account  in November 2018, Mr T made a 
complaint to them.
They didnt uphold  the complaint and explained  they were taking back the temporary  refund. 
This was on the basis that the car rental company  had repaid back into Mr Ts account the 
money they originally  took in August 2018.
Mr T wasnt happy with this because he says he never  got the temporary refund in the first 
place. He complained to us and our investigator looked into it. She thought  Metro  Bank  had 
done nothing wrong.
Mr T disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some sympathy with Mr T because I think this is a complicated  matter and its not 
easy to follow where  this money has gone  and when. However, Im not going  to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can only look at whether Metro Bank have acted fairly and reasonably in this case. Its not 
for me to comment on the car rental  companys actions.
Ref: DRN25346812The car rental company made the original mistake  of charging Mr T for the damage to the 
car. Once  that had happened  and given that the car rental  company refunded Mr Ts 
payment after Metro Bank had requested a chargeback  the money should have gone out 
of Mr Ts account twice and come  into his account twice  leaving him at the end of it all in 
the same  financial position  hed started in. 
There is a small  caveat  to this in that the first payment to the car rental company included  a 
small amount that Mr T did legitimately owe them as well as the charges for the damage  he 
didnt owe them. But thats not important in terms of determining whats  happened here.
The first payment out was the original  payment to the car rental company. The first payment 
in was Metro Banks temporary refund whilst  they investigated the possibility of a 
chargeback. The second payment in was the car rental companys refund to Mr T. And the 
second payment  out was Metro Bank reversing their temporary  refund   because Mr T had 
his money back from the car rental company.
Mr T has sent us copies of his on-line bank statement  for August 2018. This shows  two 
payments out and one payment in of £918.60. 
Its been explained to him that one of these payments out is in fact the re-debit (the claiming 
back of the temporary  refund) by Metro Bank, which actually happened in November. Metro 
Bank have  explained that the on-line  statement  essentially moves this payment back  to the 
date of the original  transaction  to which it relates.
Understandably, Mr T has noted  that there are two payments out and one payment in. And 
hes assumed he is therefore  losing out to the tune of £918.60.
Metro Bank  have sent us copies of Mr Ts bank statements.  They  refer to these as the 
official statements  as opposed  to the on-line  statements Mr T has provided.
Metro Banks statements  list the various  payments in date order,  by the date they were 
actually transacted.  So, the re-debit shows as being  in November (although it does  have the 
date in August  associated  with it).
Although the official and on-line statements  display  the information in different ways, the 
key fact here  and this doesnt  show on Mr Ts on-line statement for August only  is that 
the refund  from the car rental company clearly shows  as having been credited to Mr Ts 
account in September 2018.
So, the official statements show two payments out  the original charge from the car rental 
company in early  August  and Metro Banks re-debit  in November - and two payments in  
the temporary refund from Metro Bank in late August and the refund from the car rental 
company in September.
Mr Ts on-line statements  show three of those payments (two out, one in) as being  in early 
August  the original erroneous charge, the temporary refund from Metro Bank and the re-
debit from Metro Bank. Mr T sent us copies of his statements for August only. If he had 
looked further, hed have  seen the refund from the car rental company  dated 20 
September 2018.
Ref: DRN25346813So, Im satisfied Mr Ts account is not now short by £918.60. The money has been paid out 
twice and in twice. And Im satisfied Metro Bank were entitled to re-debit the account in 
November 2018  - this being the second  payment out.
Mr T was also unhappy Metro Bank didnt tell him they were  going to take the money from 
his account in November. It appears they did write to him. Mr T said he didnt  get the letter,  
but it was correctly addressed and I cant hold Metro  Bank  responsible if the letter  went 
astray in the post.
Mr T has told us that he keeps a very close eye on his account  to ensure he doesnt go 
overdrawn. So, given  the refund from the car rental company effectively made him around 
£900 better off than he should have been, its surprising he wasnt expecting Metro  Bank to 
claim back the temporary refund theyd credited to him in late August.  whether they told 
him they were about to do so or not.
Mr T says the unexpected  debit caused him to go into overdraft. And hes concerned that his 
statements will show  a history of him being overdrawn which  may affect  his credit rating.
I can see Mr T went into overdraft at the point the money was taken from his account  in 
November. However, he was back in credit  the same day. 
He hadnt been overdrawn before that point   at least not as far back as July 2018  which  is 
when the statements sent to us by Metro Bank start.  And he hasnt been overdrawn again 
after the day the re-debit was taken  in November. 
So, I cant see that Mr Ts suffered any loss or detriment as a result  of the re-debit - or that 
theres any potential  that he might  do so in future. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2534681