K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a second charge secured  loan Mrs and Mr M have. It was originally 
taken out with Firstplus Financial Group  Plc, but was later transferred to a new lender Ill call 
E. Mrs and Mr M are unhappy that Firstplus added legal costs  arising  from court action in 
2013 and 2014 to the loan balance when  the court didnt order that to happen.  
They found  this out in 2018 when they obtained a redemption statement in anticipation of 
selling their property.  They ended up aborting the sale, leaving them with non-refundable 
costs of £1,500  to their selling agent
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
rounding some the figures involved,  and using my own words. No discourtesys  intended  by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal  service  we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs and Mr M when my 
decision is published.
Mrs and Mr M took the loan out with Firstplus in 2006; it was for £100,000 plus interest  at a 
variable rate, then 9.06% (9.4% APR).  Mrs M was Miss D at the time, for simplicitys sake, 
Ill refer to her throughout as Mrs M. The loan fell into arrears, and in 2013, Firstplus took 
Mrs and Mr M to court. As part of their defence, Mrs and Mr M argued that the clause  
allowing Firstplus to vary the interest  rate was unfair. 
The court agreed  with them and in October 2013,  issued an interim order requiring Firstplus 
to recalculate the loan as if it had been  on a fixed rate of 9.06% since inception. It was also 
ordered that the case would come back to court for the judge to decide  if a possession  order  
would still be warranted following recalculation, and that a decision on legal costs would be 
made at the later hearing.
The follow up hearing was in early 2014, and a suspended possession order  (SPO) was 
granted. However, contrary  to what the October 2013 order  had stated would  happen, the 
SPO didnt include an order  as to costs. Over the next few years, Mrs and Mr M worked hard 
to keep to the terms of the SPO, but it was a struggle for them,  and there were times when 
Firstplus came close to enforcing the SPO. That meant continued work for Firstplus 
solicitors, and additional costs beyond those  that had already existed at the time of the SPO.
In early 2018, Mrs and Mr M, having decided to sell their home, requested a redemption 
figure. The statement  they received, which came from E, included  a figure for legal costs of 
around £36,500. Mrs and Mr M aborted the sale of their home, leaving them with a 
non-refundable bill of £1,500 due for payment to their estate agent, and complained  that the 
legal fees shouldnt have been charged  to them by virtue of the court decisions in 2013 and 
2014.
Ref: DRN24704312Firstplus didnt uphold  the complaint, and when it came to us, nor did the investigator to 
whom it was assigned. Mrs and Mr M have asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us. Ill explain the relevance of that next.
Whilst theyve been pursuing this complaint, Mrs and Mr M have also made a subject access 
request (SAR). They arent  happy  with how thats been handled, but Im not dealing with that 
here. It doesnt affect my consideration of the complaint about the legal costs, so if 
Mrs and Mr M wish to pursue a complaint about  how the SAR has been  handled,  the 
Information Commissioners Office  seems the more appropriate forum.
Firstplus and E are separate businesses, and whilst E is the business to which 
Mrs and Mr M currently owe money,  the legal fees theyre saying shouldnt have been 
debited, with very few exceptions, flow from when the loan was with Firstplus. The solicitors 
only began  invoicing E rather  than Firstplus in the spring of 2016.
So theres no doubt, this is a complaint against Firstplus, not against E. If they wish to, 
Mrs and Mr M can raise  a separate  complaint against E about how its administered the loan 
since the transfer, and refer it to us afterwards if need be.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Where theres a dispute 
about the evidence, including whether all of the relevant evidence  has been provided,  its for 
me to decide  if I have  everything I need to determine the case  fairly. Here,  Im satisfied I can 
do so on the basis  of what I have in front of me.
The crux of the complaint before me is the addition by Firstplus of legal fees to the debt now 
owed to E. The starting point here is that the underlying contract allows for that to happen. A 
court can order something different, but if the court says nothing, the contract  prevails, and 
that, in my view, is where Mrs and Mr Ms complaint has to fail. The 2013 court order  may 
have said costs would be decided at the next hearing, but for whatever reason, they werent. 
I dont know why the court chose not to make a costs order  at the follow-up hearing, and its 
not my place  to second-guess what decision the court would have  made if it had addressed 
the legal  costs. The only way for that question to be answered is if Mrs and Mr M went  back 
to the court  that issued  the SPO and asked for costs  to be revisited  and a ruling  made 
retrospectively. 
Ref: DRN24704313The January  2014 SPO  makes no comment whatsoever on who should pay Firstplus legal 
costs; as I explained earlier, that means  the underlying contract provision  prevails. I would 
add that the contract also allows for interest to accrue on the costs  whilst they remain on the 
loan balance. Firstplus  says it hasnt done that, but for completeness,  I find that it could 
reasonably have done so.
Mrs M has said she believes the term in the contract  allowing for legal costs to be added to 
the loan balance makes the relationship unfair,  in much the same way that court decided 
was the case  with the term allowing  the rate to be varied. Im afraid that too, is something 
that the court is best placed to decide.  
When youre as close to a difficult situation  as Mrs and Mr M have been for so long here,  its 
a natural subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue  with vigour.  But I have 
a different remit. I have  to be objective,  and impartial, and sometimes  that means stepping 
back from the fine detail  and taking an overview.  It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers  to every specific question that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M, to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2470431