K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in 1999. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover  Mr V for accident,  sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs V disagree with the adjudicators  
view and so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs V say they didnt know they had PPI, so it was added without their knowledge or 
consent. Ive seen some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. There is a mortgage  
application summary. This states: Mortgage Repayments Insurance YES.  In addition to the 
mortgage application, there  was a separate application form for the PPI. This provided a 
summary of the benefits and exclusions of the policy. It also detailed the benefit amount and 
shows the cost as being £6.06 per month.  Mr V has signed the form. The fact that the policy 
was set up just to cover Mr V also suggests that there was some discussion about the 
couples needs.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Vs 
memory of events has faded. From the evidence Ive seen,  Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs V 
would have known  that they were taking out PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, 
knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing  so.
BoS advised Mr and Mrs V to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending  it to them,  it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs.  And from what I know of their circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for them.
I can see from the mortgage application details  that Mr V was by far the main wage earner. 
So it makes  sense that the policy  was set up just to cover him. Mr V says he would have 
received indefinite sick pay and has provided  a letter from his employer as evidence  of this. 
However the letter says that any sick pay will be regularly assessed,  so full continuing sick 
pay was not guaranteed. The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and for 
up to 24 months for accident and sickness (as well as providing cover for unemployment).  
Mr and Mrs V say that they had some savings. But having the policy  would have allowed 
them to retain these or use them  to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult 
time. Overall I think that Mr and Mrs V had a need  for the policy and could have benefitted  
from it, so it was a suitable  recommendation by BoS.
Ref: DRN28889142As Ive already  mentioned,  the cost and benefit  amount of the policy  was set out in the PPI 
application form, as well as a summary of the main  features of the policy.  Its possible that 
BoS could have provided more information  about  the policy, particularly about the things that 
it didnt cover. But Mr V wasnt  affected  by any of those things. As I think that Mr and Mrs V 
had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would 
have caused them to change their minds.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mr and Mrs V took out their mortgage  in 1999. From the information BoS has provided, Mr 
and Mrs V took out a further  advance  in 2006.  BoS has told us the entire mortgage became 
regulated at that point. Based on what we have seen and what we know  about how BoS 
arranged this further borrowing, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage  did become 
regulated.
As Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered 
by the Consumer Credit  Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So BoS 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs V paid for the PPI they had with 
their mortgage.
Ref: DRN28889143my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2888914