K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Pinnacle  Insurance  Plc has increased her pet insurance policy  
premium.
background
Mrs M has had pet insurance since her dog was a puppy. In 2015 the insurer for her policy  
changed to Pinnacle.
In 2018 the policy premium  doubled from £67 a month to £134  a month. Mrs M complained. 
Pinnacle said it appreciated  the increase was unwelcome. It said that the policy premium 
had increased  for a number of factors, including the dogs  breed and age, where it lived, and 
the increasing cost of veterinary fees.  
Mrs M came to us. She said shed not made a claim in the previous  policy  year, mainly to 
avoid the premium increasing. She said it wasnt fair that she was paying for increasing vets 
fees. She felt trapped as Pinnacle knew she wouldnt be able to get cover  elsewhere for her 
dogs pre-existing conditions. 
Our adjudicator looked into the price  increase for the 2018 policy  renewal.  She said Pinnacle 
had been entitled to increase the premium based on the various factors  it had mentioned  to 
Mrs M. In particular,  our adjudicator said the increase was due to the dog getting older and 
the overall cost of claims. 
Mrs M was very unhappy with our adjudicators view. She said we were allowing the 
greedy insurance companies to get away with increasing the premiums without considering 
the individual policyholders and their pets. She cant now afford the premium, which has 
increased again to £170  a month for the 2019  policy year.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms strength of feeling in this matter  is clear. Shes also very unhappy with the further 
premium increase in 2019. But weve explained shed need to make  a separate  complaint to 
Pinnacle about the 2019 increase. 
My decision  is confined  to the 2018  premium increase. Ive carefully reviewed all the 
evidence. Having done so I dont uphold  this complaint, and Ill explain my reasons.  
Its not my role to tell an insurer what price it should charge for the risks it covers. I also dont 
decide what factors it should take into account when it assesses those risks. I look at what  
factors an insurer has taken into account when increasing the policy  premium and whether 
theyve been applied in the same way to all its policy holders.  I can then decide if an insurer 
has treated a customer fairly. 
I appreciate Mrs Ms concerns, given the increase  in her premium. I can see she has a policy 
that renews annually,  and it provides  cover  up to a stated maximum for each condition.
Ref: DRN23198962Pinnacle has shown  us how its calculated Mrs Ms premium. One factor in the increased 
price is her dogs age. Insurance for pets, including  dogs, tends to get more expensive  as 
pets age. Dogs  have relatively short  lifespans,  so every year the dog becomes older means 
quite a significant change in risk assessment. 
Pinnacle has shown  us that its also increased  Mrs Ms premium because  of the increasing 
cost of claims, as veterinary costs increase. I appreciate Mrs Ms point that she didnt make 
a claim in the 2017 policy year, and she doesnt  think its fair that she has to pay because 
others have claimed  or prices have  increased. But Pinnacle can still take into account  
previous claims and also the increasing  cost of claims generally. I dont think  Pinnacle acted 
unreasonably in taking these factors into account.  I understand Mrs M considers that the 
amount by which the premium increased  is excessive. But as Ive explained its not for me to 
tell Pinnacle what  price it should  charge  for the risks it covers. 
Having looked  into the complaint Im satisfied  that Pinnacle has treated Mrs M in the same  
way as it has treated  any other policyholder in her situation. I dont think its treated  her 
unfairly.
Mrs M has explained she cant now afford the monthly premium,  and that she wont  be able 
to get cover  elsewhere  for her dogs pre-existing conditions.  I do see her point, but I think  
Pinnacle was able to increase the premium in the 2018 policy year.  So I dont uphold her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2319896