K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has worked out how 
much he owes  on his loan.
background
Mr P took out a very sizeable loan with RBS in April 2012. Hes been  paying that off ever 
since. He told us that RBS had written  to him in late 2017 to tell him that it was making a 
refund for interest on his loan that it shouldnt have charged him. 
RBS said that it shouldve been  sending  him some  documents  about his loan, and it hadnt 
been doing that as often as it was supposed to, so it wasnt  allowed to charge him interest 
for a period.  But Mr P said that RBS didnt tell him what these  missing  documents were,  and 
he still didnt think hed received them. He did get two sets of documents,  he said that they 
didnt show the loan balance. A third set did contain the balance of his loan. 
Mr P also said that if RBS wasnt allowed to charge interest on his loan while it was non-
compliant with the rules about issuing  documents, then he thought  the balance on his loan 
should be much less than it was. He said that RBS was just adding  back the interest that it 
had refunded to him, every three months.  So he was still paying interest on that interest. 
RBS said that it was supposed to send its customers  regular  statements for their loans, and 
it had failed to do this properly for Mr P. It had sent a statement in 2013,  and then not again 
for some time after that. As RBS had accepted that it wasnt  allowed to charge interest  
during any period when it wasnt sending accurate annual account statements, it made a 
refund of interest  to Mr P, for the period  between  24 April 2014  and 31 December 2017. It 
had charged him £8,699.91 in interest  during this time, which it shouldnt have. So it paid this 
back. It paid that money into his current account  (NB. not his loan account).
RBS didnt think it had made a mistake in calculating Mr Ps interest  refund, or in paying that 
money into his current account  instead  of using it to reduce his loan. It said if he had wanted  
to use the money  to pay off his loan, he couldve done that himself  once hed got the refund. 
But it did think it had made a mistake by charging  him an arrangement fee for his loan, and 
adding that to the loan amount.  So it had refunded that fee, and the interest Mr P had been 
charged on it. That worked out at just over £2,000. And it had used that payment to reduce 
Mr Ps loan.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that RBS hadnt  done a very good job 
of explaining  to Mr P what it was doing,  but she didnt  think  it had actually made any 
mistakes in what it had paid him back. She set out what RBS had told our service.  
RBS told us that it had paid £8,699.91 into Mr Ps current  account, which was interest it had 
charged during  the period  when it wasnt sending statements. She said that was made up of 
interest actually charged between 24 April 2014 and 5 December 2017,  which  RBS told us 
was £8,300.86. It then estimated an extra month of interest, at £399.05.  That was an 
overestimate. RBS knew  it was overestimating, but it wanted to be sure that Mr P had 
definitely received  all the refund he was entitled  to, and not less. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ps loan wasnt in arrears.  He was up to date with his 
payments. RBS was giving him back money it shouldnt  have  charged  him. So she thought 
Ref: DRN25945302that RBS had done the right thing  by paying this money back into his current  account, and 
letting him decide  for himself what to spend it on. 
Our investigator said that Mr P had also complained about a fee he was charged, which had 
been added  to his loan.  RBS upheld that complaint. It had increased his loan by this amount, 
and charged interest on it, so our investigator thought that RBS did the right thing  when it 
reduced his loan again, by that amount. 
Mr P didnt agree with that. He said he was just paying the interest again, because it was still 
being charged every three months. He sent us some documents  from RBS which  he said 
showed that he had still been  charged interest  during the time that RBS was non-compliant. 
He said that RBS had just added the interest back onto his account.
Our investigator said she didnt think that this was what RBS was doing. She said the loan 
showed that interest had already been debited from his loan account. That had happened, 
during a period when RBS wasnt entitled  to charge for this borrowing. RBS hadnt gone  into 
Mr Ps loan and retrospectively removed the interest charges. That would mean  that the 
record of his loan was inaccurate. Instead, it had paid that money  back. And she said that 
Mr P then had the choice  to use his refund to pay off part of his loan if he wanted  to.
Mr P said that he still thought that RBS should  be able to recalculate  the loan, so that it was 
interest free during  the period of non-compliance. He thought  that for every  £1 paid off the 
loan, the overall  balance  shouldve reduced  by the same amount. He wrote  again to say that 
he didnt think that a refund shouldve been credited to his current account either. He said 
that RBS made a mistake by not giving him a choice about where that money  went. And he 
said that he still hadnt had the documents that he shouldve received with the letter about 
his refund. 
Mr P wanted  his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-I started  by explaining  that our service  doesnt  audit peoples  loans. But I could look at 
what RBS has done, and see if I can see any mistakes in the calculations it has made. I 
did that, and I didnt think that RBS actually ended up underpaying  Mr P. But I thought it 
hadnt done a very good job of explaining this to him, or addressing the point hes raised. 
-Mr P was charged interest on the money that he borrowed  from RBS.  There are, broadly, 
two ways that banks  commonly work out the interest on a loan. One way is to work  out at 
the very start how much interest  the loan will accrue over the whole of its lifetime, and 
add that to the lump sum at the start. The other is to add interest onto the loan 
periodically during  the life of the loan. Thats the same as a credit card or a mortgage, 
where the bank  works out how much  it has lent each month, and charges interest  on a 
monthly basis for that lending. 
-In this case, Mr P wasnt charged all the interest  at the start of the loan. He was charged 
interest on the account every three months instead. So every three months,  RBS looked 
Ref: DRN25945303back at the lending it had made him, and added up how much that cost.  It then added  
that interest  charge to his total debt. Thats what Id expect to see on this loan. 
-But I said we now knew that interest was charged  on this loan during a period that RBS 
wasnt entitled to charge.  So that interest increased the balance  of the loan. Obviously  
RBS had to do something  about  that. And it had. It was RBSs  explanation of this that I 
wasnt sure about.
-RBS set out for us what it has done,  and our investigator passed that on to Mr P. What  it 
said it had done was to work out how much  interest Mr P had paid during  this time of 
non-compliance, and refund that interest  back to him. 
-But I thought  that what Mr P may have been  trying to tell us, is that this would leave the 
balance of his loan still wrong. He had been  paid back  the money that hed been wrongly 
charged. But because it didnt go back onto his loan (it was paid into his current account 
instead) the balance  on his loan was still too high. It included the interest that he 
shouldnt have  been charged. We knew he got that money  back, but because the total 
owing on his loan wasnt reduced, his balance didnt go down. And we knew  that he was 
then being charged  interest on that total balance. 
-So, if this explanation was right, then although  Mr P had been  given back the money  he 
overpaid, he was still being  charged  to borrow it. He said that wasnt  right.  
-I asked RBS if that was definitely  what it had done. I looked  at the figures,  and I thought 
it was possible that RBS had just got its explanation  wrong.  
-RBS told us it had paid Mr P back £8,300.86 that he was charged in interest  between  
24 April and 5 December. His statements suggest that this is probably a bit less than he 
was charged.  RBS said that it had then estimated  interest to the end of December 2017, 
at £399.05. But that would  be a huge  overestimate. His three  monthly interest charge in 
December, for the whole  of his loan, was less than £300. 
-What I thought that RBS may have done,  was to work out not only how much interest 
Mr P had wrongly paid,  but to estimate how much more interest it was going  to charge 
him on that interest, over the remaining lifetime of his loan, and to pay him all that back. 
-I asked RBS about this twice.  It was adamant that this wasnt  what  it has done, and its 
original explanation was correct. It said that its estimate of interest was just an 
overestimate. It suggested that it used the last two interest payments to work out how 
much the next interest payment will be, but when  interest  is charged  quarterly, not 
monthly, the system it used does produce  an overestimate. It said that it has accepted 
that it would  be paying customers more than it owes them,  because  of this.
-If RBSs original explanation is correct, then I didnt  think it was likely  that RBS actually 
owed Mr P any more money.  Thats because  I thought the extent  of the overestimate of 
interest that RBS said it made  for part of December was actually likely to be enough to 
repay Mr P for any additional interest  he was charged on interest that shouldnt have 
been charged to his loan in the first place. And I noted that Mr P did have a choice about 
how he spent the money  that RBS gave him back. He couldve used that to pay off part 
of his loan, if he had wanted  to.
Ref: DRN25945304-But because RBS just hadnt addressed the question of whether it should charge interest 
on the interest wrongly charged (which  still formed part of Mr Ps loan balance  after the 
refund) I didnt think it had ever provided  a satisfactory explanation of what had 
happened on Mr Ps loan, and whether thats what shouldve happened.  
-RBS shouldve given  Mr P that explanation.  And because it hadnt,  I thought  it should  
pay Mr P £100 in compensation for that mistake. 
-RBS did have a choice about  where it paid this refund  to. It could either  repay this 
amount to Mr P directly, or it could use it to reduce the amount of his loan. By paying this 
refund to Mr P directly, it gave him the choice over whether  to reduce his loan balance  or 
spend the money elsewhere. I understood hed spent it elsewhere. I knew that RBS had 
treated a separate refund differently, but I didnt think that it was necessarily a mistake  by 
RBS to give Mr P this choice with this particular refund. And I didnt think  that RBS was 
responsible for Mr Ps choice not to use that refund to make  a partial early repayment 
onto the loan. 
-Mr P also said that he hadnt  ever received  the documents which  he was supposed to 
get from RBS, and RBS hadnt  told him what those were.  I understood that he didnt get 
an annual statement for some time. Thats what went wrong that meant  RBS wasnt 
allowed to charge interest, and had to give a refund.  Id seen the documents  that Mr P 
had received, and I was satisfied that hed since  received the information which wouldve 
been in those annual statements. So I considered that issue was now resolved.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
RBS said it agreed with my suggestion that it should pay £100 in compensation. Mr P replied 
to our service with some further evidence, and questions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr P replied  to my provisional decision,  to say that he couldnt  see why or how RBS had 
decided that April 2014 was the start of the non-compliance period. He said that the 
statement of account  that RBS sent to him on 5 February 2018 showed clear  loan arrears  for 
May 2012, which was almost two years earlier. Mr P said that he hadnt  received any 
statements from RBS, and it was only when he got that statement in 2018  that he realised 
that a loan arrangement fee of around £1,500 had been added to the loan, which shouldnt 
have been charged. 
Mr P asked me to investigate why RBS had arbitrarily chosen a date in April 2014 as the 
start of the non-compliance period,  not 17 May 2012.
I dont think that RBS has arbitrarily chosen  the date in April 2014 for the start of the non-
compliance period.  Ill explain  what I think has happened
Mr P states that the first date for arrears  on his account was in May 2012.  But this is only just 
over a month after this loan was taken out. And arrears on the loan arent what cause  RBS 
to be non-compliant.  
Ref: DRN25945305RBS has issued Mr P with a refund, because it said that it may not have been sending  him 
annual statements after April 2014.  If RBS doesnt send an annual  statement within  a set 
period, then after that short grace period, its not allowed  to charge further interest  on the 
loan. 
There wouldnt be any duty on RBS to send an annual statement until a little over a year 
after Mr P took out this loan. So I dont think that RBS could have been non-compliant with 
its duty to issue an annual statement on Mr Ps loan account before 2013. 
RBS has told us that it issued a statement  to Mr P with an end date of 22 March  2013. So it 
wasnt non-compliant in 2013. I know that Mr P says that he didnt  receive this statement, but 
Ive not seen anything that suggests  to me that this wasnt sent.  
But RBS says that it then didnt issue an annual  statement which covered the period 
immediately after that. That would be consistent  with the non-compliance  start date that RBS 
has given. An annual statement shouldve been issued around a year later,  in March or April 
2014, and RBS says it wasnt.  
The evidence Ive seen  in this case seems to me to support the non-compliance  date that 
RBS has used to work  out the refund of interest on Mr Ps loan. I dont think it owes him a 
further refund.  
Ill now make  the award I initially proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc must pay Mr P £100  in 
compensation for its poor explanation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2594530