K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  wont honour an 
agreement to pay him an interest  rebate  of nearly £2,700  on receiving an early  payment 
under his hire purchase agreement.
background 
Mr G had a car under  a hire purchase agreement. He was dissatisfied  with the car (but that 
is not the subject  of this complaint), and so in December  2018 he phoned VWFS to ask 
about ending the agreement and returning the car as soon as possible. It is not in dispute 
that he was told in that call that if he made  a payment of £5,000, his monthly payments 
would be significantly reduced, and he would  receive an interest rebate of nearly  £2,700. But 
that was a mistake: the call handler had accidentally told him what the rebate would be if he 
settled the agreement in full and at once. Mr G was therefore displeased to receive a letter 
telling him that the rebate  would actually be only £458.25.
The only issue in this complaint is what Mr Gs redress should be for this error.  VWFS  
apologised and offered him £100,  later increasing that offer to £250. But it did not agree that 
it should pay Mr G the difference between the rebate he was promised and what he 
received. Our adjudicator  thought that was fair. But Mr G says that he has received legal 
advice from his solicitor to the effect  that what he was told in the phone  call was a contract, 
and that VWFS is bound  by it. So he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Firstly, I would only accept Mr Gs solicitors argument that the phone call established a new 
contract if both parties had intended to substitute  new terms for the terms of the existing 
agreement. But there is no reason to suppose  that that was the case. Neither  Mr G nor the 
call handler were aware that the rebate figure they were discussing was the figure for a full 
early settlement, so they cannot have  meant  to substitute that figure  for the lower  figure  
which was actually applicable. They both thought they were  discussing the rebate figure  
which already applied under the existing agreement. So if they didnt think they were 
changing anything, then they cannot  have  entered a new agreement.
Secondly, I have read the terms and conditions of the agreement, and the early  repayment 
clause says that on an early payment being  made,  the outstanding debt will be reduced  by 
the amount of the payment and by any applicable statutory rebate. The statutory rebate 
would not have been anything approaching  £2,700 on an early payment of £5,000,  and its 
not likely  that the call handler would have had authority to agree a different figure to the 
statutory one, nor was there any reason  to. So I think the call handler just made  a mistake.
I accept that that mistake  is capable of amounting to a misrepresentation, but I do not accept 
that it is a new contract. The usual redress for a misrepresentation would not be to make it 
true, but rather to put the parties  back in the position they would have been in if the 
misrepresentation had never been made in the first place.
According to Mr G, VWFS offered to do just that. In a phone call with VWFS on 11 February  
2019, VWFS offered to refund him the £5,000 (and I presume that this was on the basis that 
Ref: DRN27313212the agreement  would  be wound back to the terms of payment which  were  in place before he 
made the payment).  Mr G says he turned that offer down. That was his choice, but I think it 
was a fair offer, since it would have put everything  back to how it was.
The only sensible  alternative  would be to pay Mr G some  compensation for his loss of 
expectation. I think £250 is a fair payment for that, and it is in line with what our Service  
would typically award. So I wont require VWFS to do anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2731321