K821x#15complaint
Mr Z has complained Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  is 
recording details about a £700 loan on his credit record. He didnt apply for this loan in 2018.
background
After applying for a loan with his bank, Mr Z was told his credit record  showed  a number of 
loans and credit cards.  Hed never  applied for these. One of those loans was with Satsuma 
Loans. Mr Z also reported these loans  to the police.
Satsuma Loans  had received a fixed-sum loan application online in Mr Zs name  in 
August 2017.  Theyd assessed  this and granted a loan for £700.  The money for the loan was 
then paid into Mr Zs joint bank account.  Mr Z held a joint account with his wife at a bank Ill 
call S. This account had been opened  in October 2014 and both Mr Z and his wife, Ms A, 
held debit cards for the account.  Mr Z said he didnt know this account was still active.
Satsuma Loans  confirmed they were  aware of Mr Zs concerns. Hed given them permission 
to speak to his wife about this loan which shed admitted  to Satsuma Loans shed taken out. 
Itd been paid off in full by Ms A after the outstanding  debt had been referred to a debt 
recovery service.  Mr Z believed he hadnt  applied for the loan so brought  his complaint to the 
ombudsman service (along with other  complaints). He wanted this loan removed from his 
credit record.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included the loan application  and statements 
for Mr Zs joint current account. She felt overall  the evidence pointed to Ms A having applied 
for the loan. It was her telephone number and email address on the loan application. 
However this money had been paid into the joint account. Although  some  of it was then 
transferred to a separate account in Ms As name, she could see Ms A had made transfers 
back into the joint account. Direct debit payments for the loan were  also made from this 
account.
Taking all this into consideration,  she didnt think it would  be fair to ask Satsuma Loans to 
remove this loan from Mr Zs credit record. She felt in all likelihood hed benefitted from the 
loan.
Mr Z disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 April 2020. I believed  Mr Z hadnt applied  for the loan 
so asked Satsuma  Loans to remove any data about this loan from his credit record.
Satsuma Loans  didnt respond  to the provisional  decision within  the timescale. 
Mr Z accepted this outcome but wanted  to make  sure Satsuma  Loans  informed any third-
party company debt-collecting  on their behalf  to be told he wasnt liable for the debt as well.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
Ref: DRN22437742conclusion as my provisional decision whilst taking into account  what Mr Z has said.  Ill 
explain further.
There are a number of key aspects  to this complaint. Did Mr Z apply for the loan? Did he 
benefit from the funds? And whether this loan has now been  repaid?
loan application
There is no dispute that the loan application  was made in Mr Zs name. However the 
personal details   including the debit card information  all belonged to Ms A. That doesnt 
alone mean Mr Z was unaware of these loans. He could have deliberately made the 
application using  his wifes personal  details. However looking at the other loans Mr Z has 
also complained  about, it seems  clear there is a pattern of loans  being  taken out without his 
knowledge. 
Our investigator has also talked to Ms A about this loan and others. Shes  admitted  she took 
out this loan.
I also note Ms A also told Satsuma Loans  shed taken this loan out. The loan has now been 
repaid in full and no money is outstanding. Ms A paid £310.80 to Satsuma Loans on 
16 January 2019.
I agree  its most likely this loan was taken out by his wife, based on what I know about Mr Zs 
other complaints and the evidence from Ms A.
what happened to the funds?
In her view of 10 February, our investigator showed the loan payment being made into the S 
account and payments that took place on that account just after that. Ive looked at the detail 
of the transactions on the S account from June 2017  to August 2018. This was very much 
run as a household account and contained card payments to supermarkets and retailers, 
direct debits for household bills including Council Tax, child tax credits, direct debits for 
numerous loans,  transfers between Ms As sole account with S and this account and 
payments for what looks like childcare or nursery fees.
Mr Z has told us he knew this account  had been  opened but thought it only operated as a 
savings account  for their son. But I can see he used the debit card he held for this account  
as recently as March  2018. He has told us he thought his wife may have used the card. But I 
think this is unlikely as she had a card of her own (which she did use) so I cant  see why 
shed also have used  her husbands  card as well.
Overall there is evidence from Ms A and the statements of the S account  that show the 
household benefitted from the loan funds.
Theres no doubt this loan, along with others, would have resulted in quite a deal of 
paperwork. Mr Z has told us that his wife managed the family finances and that, in itself,  isnt 
an unusual arrangement. But for Ms A to have hidden all this activity  from Mr Z would have 
meant quite a lot of subterfuge and sneaking around. Its difficult to imagine this wouldnt 
have been noticed by Mr Z. I appreciate  hes told us that he believed  his wife earned more 
than him which  explained  why there was the money  available that resulted  from the loans. 
From what  Ive seen, Ms A also managed to keep her actual job secret  from Mr Z.
Ref: DRN22437743Ms A has confirmed a lot of the money went to refurbish another  property (which has since 
been sold) as well as on buying  household items.
What shes also confirmed is that shes taken steps to repay  her debts.  This loan with 
Satsuma Loans  has been fully repaid. Ive seen confirmation of this from them.  This means 
that no third-party will be attempting  to make any further collection of this debt  as it no 
longer exists  from Mr Z.
I understand from conversations with both Mr Z and Ms A that what  has happened has had a 
devastating impact on their relationship and their family.
Based on what we know, I believe Mr Z didnt apply  for this loan. As Satsuma Loans has no 
contractual agreement  with him, they cant place information about this loan on Mr Zs credit  
record. All data related  to this agreement will need to be removed.
Ive also noted  Satsuma Loans  were  aware  of this situation some  time ago. Theyve  spoken  
directly to Ms A. They know the debt was repaid  in full and that Mr Z disputed hed taken out 
the loan. I think  its fair and reasonable they pay him compensation for the time theyve left 
information on his credit record  including a default   when they shouldnt  have. I believe 
£150 is a fair amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Provident  Personal Credit Limited, 
trading as Satsuma  Loans, to:
remove all data from Mr Zs credit record about this loan taken out by his wife; and
pay Mr Z £150  compensation for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243774