K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the handling of a claim made under her home  emergency policy by
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva),  following the drains at her home  becoming  blocked.
background
Although another company handled the claim,  this was on behalf of the underwriter, 
Aviva. Therefore  Ill refer to them as Aviva throughout.
In December  2018 the drains at Mrs S home  became blocked and she contacted Aviva 
who provide her home emergency cover. An engineer attended  but wasnt  able to resolve  
the problem.
Another engineer  attended shortly after and partially  cleared the drains.  But as a tanker  
was required,  they were  unable to fully clear the blockage, which reoccurred.
Multiple visits were carried out by various  engineers and ultimately the problem was 
resolved in February 2019.
Mrs S complained to Aviva and they upheld the complaint, offering Mrs S £600  
compensation. They also offered her granddaughter, who helped Mrs S with the claim,  
£100 for the inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs S was unhappy  with Avivas offer and approached this service to investigate.
Our investigator  upheld  the complaint. She explained that whilst she wasnt able to 
comment on the compensation offer made to Mrs S granddaughter, she didnt think  the 
compensation offered to Mrs S by Aviva  was enough.
Our investigator said that Mrs S was unable to use her toilet  or shower  facilities  properly 
for around  six weeks and, given  Mrs S circumstances, this had a considerable impact. 
Whilst Aviva  had offered  £600 compensation, our investigator felt £1,500  was a more 
suitable amount.
Aviva didnt agree with the investigators  recommended increase in compensation. They  
said Mrs S was given a portaloo so had alternative facilities.  They  also said there was a lot 
of silt in the drains, which took a long time and several visits to clear.  Aviva also said that 
the fault was partly  due to a soak-away, and whilst not covered  by the policy, taking Mrs S 
circumstances into account,  they had tried to assist.
Our investigator reviewed  Avivas additional comments, but her view of compensation 
remained the same. She also pointed out that Aviva had already admitted that the 
soak- away  wasnt causing the issue, as this was misdiagnosed at first.
Aviva provided a timeline of events  where  they felt they had caused  delays.  But they 
also acknowledged that initially  Mrs S declined to have a portaloo, but when the 
blockage reappeared, the portaloo wasnt re-ordered by them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, I was asked to review the case and make  a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN26258152Because I disagreed with our investigators view about the appropriate level of 
compensation, I decided to issue  a provisional decision before I make my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision  which is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word  on the case.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I must explain that Im unable to consider the compensation Aviva have 
offered Mrs S granddaughter. This is because she isnt an eligible complainant  in 
line with the rules which allow us to consider complaints. Only Mrs S is an eligible 
complainant here as she is the policyholder and customer of Aviva.
I understand that at the time the blockage occurred, Mrs S had had a very 
recent bereavement. Im sorry  to hear this, and I can understand that this 
would have been a distressing time for Mrs S.
Ive reviewed the timeline of events  that occurred. It isnt in dispute that the service  
Mrs S received was poor. Multiple  engineers  attended and it took around six weeks  
for the claim to be resolved from start to finish.
However, I can only award compensation where  Aviva have done something wrong. 
Whilst the drains were  blocked initially, Aviva wasnt responsible for this. And I need  
to bear in mind that with any claim there will be an element  of inconvenience. In 
deciding the level of compensation, Ive considered where the service  Aviva has 
provided has been poor.
Multiple engineers  attended over the six week period which  it took to resolve the 
issue. But it seems that the blockage was very extensive, and there  were  large 
amounts of silt in the drains which needed  removing. Its clear  that the issue  was 
complex, but there are two main  areas  where  I think Avivas service has been poor.
the delay in arranging a tanker
Aviva first attended Mrs S home on 31 December 2018 but the engineer  was unable 
to clear the blockage.  A second engineer attended on 2 January 2019 and said that 
a tanker  was required in order  to clear the blockage. Another engineer attended the 
following day and also said a tanker was needed.
On 8 January 2019 a further engineer attended. They reported back  to Aviva  that 
theyd only managed to put a hole in the blockage,  rather than clear it. They also 
said it would  block again unless a tanker attended.
Despite being  made aware from 2 January 2019  that a tanker was required, Aviva  
didnt actually arrange this until 24 January 2019. And the blockage  reoccurred 
during this time as predicted by the engineer. Following the initial  tanker visit, 
multiple engineers  and tankers attended, clearing the blockage and reinstating the 
drains.
Ref: DRN26258153However, there was a clear delay in a tanker  being arranged  between 2 and 24 
January 2019.  So whilst  the claim was complex, this is a three  week  period of delays 
which could have been avoided. This caused  avoidable additional impact to Mrs S, 
and this delay  has been factored into my compensation  award.
bathroom facilities
The claim was first reported on 31 December 2018. And it was at this point that 
Aviva was aware that Mrs S was without  full bathroom facilities and that for 
medical reasons,  Mrs S required full use of these.
A portaloo was initially ordered early in the claim, but as the engineer temporarily 
cleared the blockage, Mrs S said this wasnt needed. However,  the blockage 
reoccurred shortly after. Despite being aware of this and that Mrs S was without 
bathroom facilities, a portaloo wasnt reordered by Aviva. Mrs S also didnt have full 
washing facilities during  this time.
Whilst the claim was complex, Mrs S had to make wholly unsuitable alternative 
arrangements to go to the bathroom  and wash. Aviva was aware  of the situation, 
and the impact on Mrs S of not having full facilities, but didnt do anything such  
as reordering the portaloo in order to attempt to alleviate this whilst it was 
carrying out repairs.
compensation award
I acknowledge  that Aviva have recognised their failings and have  gone  some 
way toward compensating Mrs S by offering £600, but in my view the amount 
offered isnt enough.
However, as I explained earlier, I can only make compensation awards  where 
Aviva have done something  wrong.
The investigator recommended  £1,500 compensation, but this was taking into 
account the whole length of the claim.  And if the claim had taken  as long as it did 
solely because of Avivas  errors and poor handling, I may have been minded to 
agree with this level of compensation.
It took longer than might  have been  expected to fully complete the repairs.  But I 
cant ignore the fact that it was a complex claim,  and Aviva wasnt responsible for 
the drains being blocked in the first place. Multiple visits, engineers and tankers  
were required, but this was always going to be needed, and wasnt  the result  of 
anything Aviva did wrong.
Out of the six weeks the claim took from start to finish, there  was a clear period of 
avoidable delays in the tanker being  arranged.  Bearing in mind her circumstances, 
Mrs S had to make wholly unsuitable  arrangements to wash and use the bathroom 
during this time. This is where  Aviva has handled  the claim poorly, and this is why 
they should compensate  Mrs S. In my view, £1,000  would be more appropriate for 
the avoidable impact  to Mrs S caused  solely by Aviva.
Ref: DRN26258154On that basis, I said I was minded to uphold Mrs S complaint, but for the reasons outlined, 
to award a lower  level of compensation.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva responded accepting my provisional decision.
Mrs S granddaughter responded on her behalf  and didnt accept the decision. She disputed 
that Mrs S was offered a portaloo, and she said that additional delays were caused  by the 
tanker breaking a pipe and this hadnt  been considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.  Im satisfied that the compensation I 
recommended of £1,000 is fair in the circumstances.
I acknowledge Mrs S granddaughters comments that Mrs S wasnt  offered a portaloo. The 
date on which this was alleged to have happened  was around 8 January 2019 when the 
block was temporarily cleared. But Im unable to say for certain exactly  what  was discussed.  
Whether this was offered, refused and not reordered  or not offered at all, the time and 
impact of not having full facilities has already been  taken into account when making my 
award, as this was on the basis of being without full facilities for the duration.
I can also confirm that I was aware of damage caused when the tanker  attended when I 
reached my provisional decision. Whilst damage was caused this didnt extend the claim 
length beyond  the works  to clear the blockage that were  already being carried  out.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  and set out above,  my final decision is 
that Aviva  should pay Mrs S £1,000  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2625815