K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service he received when he opened a savings account with 
Aldermore Bank Plc.
background
Mr J says that when he tried to make  a payment into his Aldermore account  the payment 
was rejected. He says this happened four times with amounts ranging from 0.01 pence to 
£10,000 despite using the correct payments details.
Mr Js also unhappy at the service he received when he called in to find out why the 
payments were returned. He says he was kept waiting to have his calls answered. And 
Aldermore didnt call him back  as it said it would. He also felt it took too long to reply  to his 
complaint.
Aldermore said it had checked its systems and could  see the payments were rejected as Mr 
J had used the wrong details. It said the correct  details  were shown on the welcome letter  so 
it didnt agree it was responsible for what happened.
It acknowledged that thered been  delays in answering calls around the time Mr J called in. 
This was due to the unexpectedly  high volume  of calls it was receiving at this time. However 
it had tried to call Mr J back, twice on his landline and once to his mobile although 
unfortunately it hadnt been able to make contact. It apologised for any inconvenience but 
felt that was sufficient.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the records  supported  Aldermores 
explanation as to why the payments were rejected so he couldnt  agree it had made  a 
mistake. And although he understood that Mr J felt the online information was confusing,  it 
wasnt for us to tell Aldermore how to manage its business so we couldnt ask it to change its 
processes. He could  see however that information about what  reference to use had been 
included in the introductory email  sent to Mr J on the opening of this account.
With regard to what had happened after Mr J had called in and complained, he said 
Aldermore had apologised  for the delay in answering calls at this time, which he felt was 
reasonable. It had also provided information to show  it had tried to call Mr J back on 19 and 
21 February so even though it hadnt  got through, he didnt agree it was responsible for this. 
He understood  Mr J felt Aldermore had taken too long to reply to his complaint but although 
it had sent a written  reply  rather than a call back,  it had done so within  the guidelines set for 
this. In the circumstances  he felt Aldermore had dealt with the complaint fairly and he 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything  more.
Mr J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  He said the 
service provided by Aldermore was inadequate  and not in line with what  it had offered and 
that it should have done more to deal with this at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking 
Aldermore to do anything  more as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN28463182Mr J has explained very clearly how he tried to make  a number of payments into his new 
Aldermore account  but the payments were rejected. I can understand how frustrating this 
was for Mr J but I need to consider if Aldermore is responsible for what happened.
Ive seen the records of the account which show that Mr J was using the words  3 year 
account as the payment  reference on the payments. Unfortunately  this wasnt  the payment 
reference Aldermore  required so the payments were  rejected. I know  Mr J feels  the online 
information was confusing but Im satisfied that Aldermore had explained the correct 
reference in its opening emails as follows:
 Reference (your  account opening  reference)  and the first three letters  of your surname.
Please make  sure your bank correctly quotes  the reference when  they make  a payment,
otherwise it may be rejected and returned to you without interest.
This wasnt the reference Mr J used  so in the circumstances  I cant  reasonably say 
Aldermore was responsible for the payments not going through.
The second  part of this complaint is what happened when Mr J called  and then submitted his 
online complaint.  Aldermores accepted that it was taking longer than it should to answer 
calls at this time. Clearly this wasnt the service that Mr J, or any other customer, was 
entitled to expect but it was a temporary  issue so the question  I have to consider is whether 
its sufficiently serious  to warrant compensation. I can understand why Mr J feels  it wasnt 
acceptable but its also clear that, despite  the delay, he was still able to contact Aldermore to 
discuss his problem. For that reason I consider that the apology  already offered is enough  
and I wont be asking  Aldermore to do anything more about  this.
Ive also looked  at the way Aldermore dealt with Mr Js complaint.  I can see it tried to call him 
back on 19 and 21 February  both on his landline and on his mobile.  Its not clear why it 
wasnt able to get through to Mr J but I cant reasonably say Aldermore was responsible for 
this. Unfortunately as a result of this, it had to send a written  response. An acknowledgement  
was sent on 22 February  with the full response  being issued at the beginning of March. This 
may have  been  longer than Mr J was originally  given to expect but it was within the 
guidelines so I dont consider it was unreasonable.
I know this isnt the decision Mr J was hoping for but for the reasons given I dont consider 
Aldermore has made a mistake or that it now needs  to do anything  more to resolve  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2846318