K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that she was mis-sold a re-mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions  Ltd. She says Stonebridge wrongly  advised  her that a local 
authority right-to-buy discount wouldnt be repayable.
To repay the discount  she had to borrow more money, resulting in increased monthly 
mortgage payments.  
To resolve  her complaint  she wants Stonebridge to fund the repayment  she made to the 
local authority plus the additional mortgage payments, with interest.
background
Miss B owns a flat which she bought in 2012  using the governments  right to buy (RTB)  
scheme. She bought the flat with a mortgage in the usual way, but by the time these  events 
occurred, it was no longer  her residence.
In February 2017  Miss B wanted to re-mortgage to consolidate some  unsecured  debts, and 
she consulted Stonebridge. She says she told it that shed bought  the flat under the RTB 
scheme and was given  a discount which (or a part of which)  would have  to be repaid to the 
local authority if she sold within five years. She says Stonebridge told her this wouldnt be a 
problem as she wasnt selling. 
Stonebridge arranged a consumer buy-to-let  re-mortgage which was due for completion on 
25 April 2017. The mortgage  offer dated  22 March 2017 was for a loan of £112,500.00 plus 
fees.
In a letter dated 25 March 2019  to Stonebridge Miss Bs solicitors  say: 
On checking the title to the property, we noted a Housing Act discount charge was secured  
on the property,  which would subsist until 16 December 2017. However, our clients 
Mortgage Offer was due to expire on 20 September  2017.
We discussed this with Ms B on 30 March 2017,  and she advised she had forgotten about 
the right to buy discount and the council  charge.  We explained that it was a condition of her 
new mortgage that the lender has first Legal Charge, and to confirm  this we would need  the 
council to postpone their charge, in favour of the new lender. I enclose a copy of our 
telephone note and letter of 30 March  2017 for reference.
We emailed the council that day explaining we were requesting they postpone  their charge 
and asking what their requirements were  to consider this. On 7 April 2017, we received a 
response from the council  advising that (in summary) they would  only agree to postpone 
their charge  if our client were releasing equity  for home improvements on the property in 
question. This was relayed over the phone with the client  on 10 April 2017, and a copy  of the 
councils response  was sent to the client that day. Miss B advised  in the telephone 
conversation that she was not raising  funds for home improvement  purposes and we 
explained that in this case the council would not agree to postpone  their charge, so if we 
were to complete  prior to 17 December  2017 then it would need to be repaid. We enclose a 
copy of the telephone note and letter to Miss B of 10 April 2017  for reference.
Miss Bs solicitors  letter  to her of 10 April 2017 said:
Ref: DRN23349592I enclose  a copy of the councils response regarding  the postponement  of their charge.
You will note that in order to consider this, they would require estimates for the proposed 
works at the property.  However, I understand it is not your intention to undertake  
improvements on the property and would draw your attention to the councils confirmation  
that they will not agree to postpone their charge for consolidation of debts.
As per our previous correspondence, it is a condition of your new mortgage that [new  lender] 
have first Legal Charge over your property. If the councils charge cannot  be postponed to 
confirm this, and if you are unable to extend  your mortgage offer, then the charge in favour  
of the council would need to be repaid on completion.
Miss Bs account is rather different. She says that she was days  before completion on 
25 April 2017 when  Stonebridge told her that her solicitors had contacted the council and 
that shed need to repay a portion of the right to buy discount which  would be £29,906.60.  
Stonebridge had arranged to have  this added to the re-mortgage. Miss B says she was 
absolutely in shock but agreed to go ahead. This meant that instead of having a mortgage  
of £111,593.40 paying £413.00 per month she would  have  a mortgage of £138,500.00 
paying £490.00 per month.
On 2 May 2017  the lender issued an amended mortgage offer for £138,500.00 plus fees. 
The re-mortgage was completed on 12 May 2017.
Miss B says that in December 2018,  she was seeking advice on a different matter from an 
independent financial  adviser who told her that the repayment had been  unnecessary.  She 
could have taken  a loan secured against  the flat and wouldnt have had to repay the 
discount. Stonebridge hadnt  suggested  this to her.
On 14 December 2018 Miss B sent a letter of complaint to Stonebridge.  She said her 
application had been for a consumer buy-to-let re-mortgage with additional borrowing for 
debt consolidation. Just before completion  her solicitor had told her she wasnt  allowed to 
borrow against the flat within five years  of purchase  except  for home  improvements.  She 
said Stonebridge  should have told her this. She was only five months away from the end of 
the five year period. Stonebridge should have suggested she may want to take some time to 
think her options over or that she should have taken a secured loan instead.
Stonebridge replied on 17 April 2019.  It said it had told Miss B that it didnt advise on 
secured loans, and she hadnt disclosed that she was still in the right to buy discounted  
period. It said her solicitor  had talked the matter  through  with her and put it in writing  and 
advised her not to proceed, but to wait, on at least two occasions.  The solicitor  had made 
her aware the penalty was £26,906 on 25 April and advised for a third time that she wait until 
December. 
Miss B then brought  her complaint  to our service. She referred to advice  given by the local 
authority as follows:
[Your solicitors] were  correct in advising that the Council would not be able to do a Deed of 
Postponement of their Charge, as they had done when you initially purchased, as the 
additional funds  would  now be used for debt consolidation.
However, in view of the fact that the Discount Period was due to expire  in 5 months, they 
would have been advised that obviously if your lender was happy for the new charge to rank 
Ref: DRN23349593after that of the Councils [sic], then the Council would have no objections to a Second 
Charge being  placed  on the Title. They would only then have had to apply for a Certificate of 
Compliance to allow  for the new Mortgage to be added to the Register.
Our investigator considered Miss Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Miss Bs 
solicitors had advised her by phone and letter on 10 April 2017 that the council would only 
postpone its charge  if the money  were  being raised  for improvements to the property. And by 
phone on 21 April and letter on 25 April the solicitors had advised that the right to buy 
discount would cease to be repayable in December 2017.
Miss B replied  that her complaint had been misunderstood and asked for an ombudsman  to 
look at the case.  She said that when  she approached Stonebridge the only option  she was 
aware of was re-mortgaging. She said shed told Stonebridge that it was a right to buy 
property and she didnt  want  to repay  the discount as she was only months  away from being 
out of the repayment period. She said Stonebridge had told her she wouldnt need to repay 
the discount as she wasnt selling the flat. This was of course not the case. Stonebridge 
should have told her that although it couldnt arrange this for her, a secured loan would be 
her best option.  
Miss B said shed contacted the local councils  legal and compliance team and been advised 
that although she was required to make  the repayment as the remortgage wasnt  for home 
refurbishment, because  she was only five months  away from being out of the repayment 
period they would have advised that she could have signed a certificate  which would have 
allowed her to not repay the discount.
Following the investigators conclusions Miss B provided  a summary of her complaint for my 
benefit as she believes it has been misunderstood.  She doesnt  accept Stonebridges case  
that she didnt  tell it the flat was a right-to-buy. She regards this as an admission of guilt and 
an attempt to cover up. She had since found out that she had two options  available which 
Stonebridge failed to mention.
Firstly, a second charge  loan. Miss B said this was a much more  suitable product and the re-
mortgage was mis-sold  to her.
Secondly, signing a certificate of compliance to allow for the new mortgage  to be added to 
the register (allowing  her to not make the repayment). She still had an opportunity  to avoid 
paying the discount back to the council. The councils letter said that even though it was 
usual practice to take back a portion of the council  discount (being the £29,906.60) because 
it was for debt consolidation,  because she was so close to being out of the repayment  period 
they would  have offered the option  for her to sign a certificate of compliance.  In which case  
she wouldnt  need to repay the discount. She was never made  aware of this option.
Shes now mortified to learn that by signing this document she could have saved £29,906.60  
plus £77 per month increased  mortgage payments.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue which  arises  is whether  or not Miss B told Stonebridge at the outset that the 
flat was an RTB.
Ref: DRN23349594Miss B says she told Stonebridge that shed  bought  the flat under the RTB scheme  and was 
given a discount which (or a part of which)  would have to be repaid to the local authority if 
she sold within five years. She says Stonebridge told her this wouldnt be a problem as she 
wasnt selling. Stonebridge denies this and says Miss B didnt tell it that she was still in a 
right to buy discounted period. Miss B says Stonebridge is lying.
There are no documents which conclusively resolve this dispute.  Stonebridges suitability 
report dated 24 February 2017  makes no mention of the RTB discount,  but that doesnt 
prove Miss B didnt say anything about  it.
The best evidence  is the letter dated  25 March  2019  from Miss Bs solicitors  from which  Ive 
quoted above. They say Miss B told them on 30 March 2017  that shed forgotten  about the 
right to buy discount and the council charge. It seems the solicitors found  out about  the 
charge from the land registry charge certificate on or shortly before 30 March  2017.
I think its unlikely that Miss B would have remembered the RTB charge, and told 
Stonebridge about it, on 21 February 2017  and then forgotten about it only a month  later. Its 
more likely that shed  forgotten  about it at some point since  buying the flat in 2012. So on the 
balance of probabilities I find that Miss B didnt tell Stonebridge about the RTB charge, and 
that Stonebridge first found out about it when the solicitors discovered it.
It follows that Stonebridges initial advice to Miss B that she could proceed  with a re-
mortgage was correct on the information  it had. It arranged the re-mortgage with completion 
due on 25 April. 
The next issue is whether Stonebridge acted correctly and reasonably after the RTB charge 
was discovered on 30 March. Miss B says she was in shock when Stonebridge told her just 
days before  25 April that shed need to repay some £29,000. But that cant  be right,  because  
her solicitors  had already  told her about the charge on 30 March and that they would be 
asking the council to postpone  it. On 10 April theyd told Miss B that the council  wouldnt 
postpone (because the loan wasnt for home improvements) and on 21 April theyd told her 
that the amount was £29,906.60.
So what  did Stonebridge do at this point?  Its account is as follows:
Once this fact became  apparent, it was discussed  in detail. It was known that the discount 
period ended on 17/12/17 but you stressed  you could not wait that long. The advisor and 
solicitor made it clear you would need a deed  of postponement. The solicitor wrote  to the 
local authority on 30/03/17. The Local Authority responded in writing on 06/04/17  to explain 
the deed of postponement  would only be allowed in certain circumstances, such as home  
improvements, but that debt consolidation would not count, and a percentage of the discount 
would have to be repaid  if you continued.
The solicitor  talked this through  with you and put it in writing  and advised you not to proceed, 
but to wait, on at least two occasions.  You replied to the solicitor (on 10 April and 21 April) 
that you needed to complete as soon  as possible and that the mortgage  offer could not be 
extended. In fact, this was not the case.  The mortgage offer was still able to be amended 
and you did this to add the RTB penalty  onto the mortgage to enable the mortgage to 
complete. The solicitor made you aware the penalty was £26,906 on 25 April and advised 
you wait until December  for a third time.  You replied you could not afford to and put pressure 
Ref: DRN23349595on the advisor and the solicitor to complete the advance  as soon as possible. The mortgage 
completed on 12/05/17.
Miss B doesnt suggest that Stonebridge  should  instead have advised her not to proceed 
with the re-mortgage but to await expiry of the RTB charge in five months. But in any event 
she was already receiving  precisely  that advice  from her solicitors. They  wrote  to her on 
25 April 2017:
I would reiterate that as per our telephone conversation, the councils right to buy discount 
is not repayable  after 16 December 2017,  meaning that if we completed after this date you 
would not have to repay  this . We understand that you wish to proceed and complete as 
soon as possible, regardless of these charges.
If Miss B didnt  wish to defer the re-mortgage on the advice of her solicitors, I dont see why 
she would  have done so on the advice of Stonebridge. The solicitors say:
On 21 April 2017, the council contacted  us to confirm that the repayment amount would be 
£26,906.60. I called the client  that day and confirmed the amount we would need to repay 
the council. I reiterated  during this call that if we completed after 16 December 2017 then 
she would  not have to repay anything to the council.
Miss B was chasing  us to arrange the completion  for as soon as possible (specifically via 
email on the 3 and 10 May)  and subsequently  we proceeded and completed on 
12 May 2017. I have  attached copy email communications between myself and the client  
from 11 & 12 May 2017 whereby  the client is clearly happy with us arranging  the completion  
so quickly following receipt  of the corrected  mortgage offer.
In my opinion, the client was given several opportunities to delay the completion of the 
remortgage and she was fully aware of the implications of completing  on 12 May 2017, as 
she was appropriately  informed throughout the transaction.
Miss B also suggests that she had two other options. But I dont think  she did. The only other 
option was to await expiry  of the discount repayment  period,  which  is what  her solicitors 
advised her to do. 
A second charge loan wasnt available. That wasnt because Stonebridge didnt do them, it 
was because the council would have  required  the second charge loan to rank after the 
councils charge for the discount:  
obviously if your lender  was happy for the new charge  to rank after that of the councils, 
[sic] then the council would have no objections  to a second charge being  placed on the title.
So the new charge wouldnt be a second charge at all, it would be a third charge, ranking 
after the existing  mortgage and the council. The prospect of obtaining the required  additional  
lending on that basis was remote.  And even if a certificate of compliance  might,  as Miss B 
suggests, allow for the new charge  to be added to the register, it would still be a third 
charge. The council wasnt addressing the scenario now put forward  by Miss B that she 
should have been advised to take a second  charge loan.
And there was no question of Miss Bs signing a certificate of compliance. Her solicitors 
would have had to apply to the council, and it is the council who would provide the certificate  
of compliance. The purpose of that certificate would be to show  that any changes to the land 
Ref: DRN23349596register would be compliant with the Housing Act 1985. It wasnt just a question of Miss B 
signing a document.
For these reasons I dont  consider that Stonebridge  was at fault for not providing those 
options  they didnt  actually exist.
To summarise, my findings are that: 
Stonebridge  didnt know about the RTB charge when  it initially recommended  the re-
mortgage; and 
it wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome if Stonebridge had advised a 
different course  of action when it did know. 
In those circumstances I agree with the investigator  that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2334959