K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) asked her to pay to 
refurbish a car she was financing  with them at the end of the hire period. She also complains 
that it took PSA too long to tell her about the charges it wanted to apply.
background 
Mrs K took receipt of a used car in October 2015.  She financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with PSA. The car was three  years  old at inception of the 
agreement and had 61,970 delivery  miles.
In August  2018  Mrs K voluntarily terminated  her agreement and handed the car back. It was 
inspected and several areas of damage  were  noted that PSA said Mrs K should  pay to have 
refurbished. They said the terms of her contract  required  her to return the car in a 
satisfactory condition except for fair wear  and tear. The total of the charges  applied was 
£1,683.82.
Mrs K complained to PSA as she said the charges were for damage that was already 
present when she took receipt of the vehicle. She also complained that theyd taken two 
months to present  her with the charges: she said that was too long.
PSA initially  explained that all damage was clearly  evidenced  but when Mrs K referred her 
complaint to this service  they agreed to waive some of the charges.  The final bill was 
£628.47 and consisted of charges for the following damage:
front bumper scuff  £125
roof corrosion £165
tailgate chipped £55
three corroded alloy wheels £180
front door seal replacement £61.47
windscreen chip £42
Our adjudicator reviewed  the photographs  provided in the vehicle inspection report. She 
explained that the industry guidelines on what is considered  fair wear and tear when a car is 
being returned at the end of a lease are provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). But that guidance is meant for cars up to five years old and Mrs Ks 
car was older than that when it was returned.  So whilst she considered  the photographic 
evidence against  that standard she explained that due to the cars age it wouldnt be fair to 
follow the guidance too strictly. 
She did however,  conclude that each of the items on the outstanding list were clearly  in 
excess of what could  be considered fair wear and tear on a car of this age and she therefore  
thought PSA were being fair charging for them. She explained that although Mrs K said the 
damage was present  when she bought the car she hadnt been  provided with any evidence 
of that. And she went on to say that she didnt  think Mrs K had been  disadvantaged  by the 
delay getting the invoice  to her  no adverse reports had been made to her credit  file and 
there was no financial  detriment. So she didnt think it would be fair to ask PSA to do 
anything further.
But Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicator and she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. She accepted there  was damage to the front bumper but she still disputed the 
Ref: DRN26961182other charges as she insisted they were  present when  she bought the car and thats  why it 
was cheaper than usual. She said the car had completed an additional 1,000 miles after 
shed returned  it to PSA and that nobody had provided an explanation about why this had 
happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs K so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs K acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
refurbishment charges
The terms of Mrs Ks finance agreement said that the car should be returned  in a good  
condition except for fair wear and tear.
As the adjudicator has explained, its the BVRLA  who provide the guidance  on what  should  
be considered  fair wear  and tear when cars are returned at the end of a hire period. But as 
the car was older than five years  I wouldnt expect PSA to apply this guidance  rigidly.  They  
should take into account the age of the car when making their assessment of what would  be 
fair.
Ive reviewed the photographs provided  by the company who inspected  Mrs Ks car and 
those provided by Mrs K and Ive considered whether the damage is excessive. When  
making my assessment Ive considered the BVRLA guidance as a starting  point on each 
area of damage. That would include consideration that:
there should be no rust or corrosion on any of the bodywork or trim;
scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles age 
and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing;
scratches on  seals that reflect normal use are acceptable
chips cracks or holes  to the windscreen are not acceptable
Ive then considered  whether the sort of damage  thats present on the car would be 
acceptable on a slightly older vehicle that may have completed a higher mileage. I think  in 
each case the damage  charges that are now being  made are clearly  in excess  of what would 
be considered  acceptable.
Ref: DRN26961183I understand that Mrs K has suggested the damage  was there when she took receipt of the 
car but as shes not been able to provide any further  evidence  of that I dont think  it would be 
fair to decide  that was the case.  
I also note that Mrs K has claimed the car has completed additional mileage  since  she 
handed it back but other than her testimony  theres  been no further evidence to support her 
claim and, in those circumstances, Im not persuaded thats  been  the case. 
the billing  period
Whilst the bill for damage was later than the BVRLA  guidance would expect I dont think  
Mrs K has been financially disadvantaged  by the delay so Im not persuaded it would be fair 
or reasonable to tell PSA to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to reduce the invoice they have raised for refurbishment of the car. The final bill 
should be £628.47
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2696118