K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  has refused to pay for a follow-up 
consultation. He says that although he no longer had a policy with AXA at the time of the 
follow-up, AXA had previously authorised it so should still pay for it.
background
Mr C and his wife had private medical  insurance with AXA. In April 2017  Mr C phoned the 
insurer to make a claim for Carpal  Tunnel Syndrome. AXA confirmed Mr M had cover  for 
this, and in August 2017 he told the insurer that his treatment would be taking place  on 
3 November 2017. AXA agreed  to this. 
Mr C and his wife subsequently asked AXA to cancel their policy, and the insurer  confirmed 
that had been done with effect from 11 November 2017. But Mr C contacted AXA again  in 
February 2018, to ask why it hadnt  paid for a follow up consultation hed had in 
December 2017.  AXA told Mr C that the follow-up  had taken place after his policy  had 
ended, so cover had no longer been available.
Mr C complained. He said that AXA had previously  approved all his consultations, and he 
hadnt told the insurer about  moving his policy at the time because  it wasnt  an issue  then. 
Mr C also said AXA had not told him hed need  to remain  a member whilst all appointments 
were taking place, and he asked it to pay for the follow-up.
AXA said it couldnt find anything  to show it had given Mr C authorisation for all 
consultations, but because he had no cover  in place at the time of the follow-up it wasnt 
responsible for the costs. The insurer also said it hadnt treated Mr C unfairly, nor had it 
acted outside  the terms of the policy hed had.
Unhappy with AXAs decision  Mr C approached this service. One of our investigators looked  
at what had happened and felt that:
The terms and conditions of the policy did say that cover wouldnt be provided if the 
insurer wasnt receiving any premiums
Mr C hadnt made  any mention of cancelling his policy when speaking to the insurer,  
so AXA had given  the pre-authorisation  in good faith that cover would be in place
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld,  but Mr C disagreed. He 
said that AXA had created  a verbal contract  by providing pre-authorisation, and its refusal to 
pay for the follow-up could not be legally or morally correct. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The terms and conditions  of the policy that Mr C had with AXA said:
Your policy is for one year. 
Ref: DRN25356522You must pay the premium for your policy when the premium is due.
In return for you paying the premium, we will provide you with the cover set out in your 
policy. 
We will pay for covered costs incurred during a period  for which  the premium has been paid. 
We will confirm  the date that the policy  starts and ends, who is covered, and any special 
terms that apply.
Mr C has said that AXA pre-authorised all of his consultations, including the follow-up one 
that took place  after his policy had been cancelled. However, the available  evidence  doesnt 
reflect that. But even  if AXA did tell Mr C that all his consultations were pre-authorised 
(including the follow-up  one), pre-authorisation  in itself is not a guarantee  of cover.
Our investigator explained that pre-authorisation is given in good  faith.  This means  its given 
on the basis that cover will be in place at the point treatment takes place, and is subject to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. In this case, AXA wasnt  aware that Mr Cs policy 
would be cancelled when  it was talking to him about pre-authorisation. So the information it 
provided was on the basis  that cover would be continuing.
However, what actually  happened  was that (at the point Mr Cs follow-up went  ahead  in 
December 2017) Mr C no longer had any cover in place, because  it had been  cancelled as 
of November 2017. Therefore, in line with the terms and conditions  that were in place for that 
particular policy, AXA was no longer liable for providing cover  or paying costs  because it 
was no longer receiving  a premium for doing so. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels AXAs actions were  morally and legally wrong but, in all the 
circumstances, I find that the insurer acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy Mr C previously  had with it. I realise  that Mr C will be disappointed  by this but, in 
my view, AXA has not acted unreasonably in declining cover.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.  
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535652