K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the valuation of 
her car following a claim on her motor insurance  policy. 
background
Ms H made a claim  on her car insurance policy and Aviva decided her car was a write off. It 
offered Ms H £5,491. But she thought her car was worth more  and so complained to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He looked at all 
the motor valuation guides and concluded  that Avivas  offer was reasonable. This was 
because it had offered  a higher amount than the guides so he thought  its offer was fair. 
As Ms H didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that Avivas 
valuation is reasonable so Im not upholding the complaint. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurance companies I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide  whether or not the offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
As outlined  by the adjudicator this service pays particular attention to the various trade 
guides used for valuing  cars, as well as other evidence  provided by both sides. 
This might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars and magazine articles; 
although I place  less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. This is because  
cars dont  generally  sell for the price  at which they are advertised for. The condition of the 
car at the time the damage occurred is also an important factor to consider. But I will only tell 
an insurer to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Ms H feels  that her car has been  undervalued  and she has highlighted that it 
was in very good  condition. But the guides have provided values for her particular make and 
model of car in good condition with similar specification. And adjustments  were made for the 
mileage of the car. 
Having taken account of all of this, including  the valuations provided by the various guides 
and the engineers evidence, it is clear that Aviva has offered more than the average price of 
the guides. Indeed  the valuation  offered is close to the highest  valuation of any of the 
guides. So I cant reasonably conclude that it has acted unfairly. 
I also not that Ms H wasnt  happy  that Aviva  didnt allow her to keep her courtesy car for 
longer. But the policy  only provided  the use of a courtesy car until her car was repaired or 
written off so I cant say it acted unreasonably.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN27409442Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2018.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2740944