K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about what he considers to be the delays and poor service he received from 
deVere and Partners  (UK) Ltd in relation to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas  Pension  
Scheme (QROPS) he held.
background
In late 2014, while Mr M was living overseas, he was advised to transfer  his Self Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP)  to a QROPS.  It appears he was advised to do so in order to 
access a larger tax free lump sum than would otherwise be available.
Mr M returned to the UK in March  2015. At this time he hadnt received  the Pension  
Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS)  and his QROPS was still in the process of being set up.
On 2 August  2015, his overseas adviser emailed Mr M to say that she was transferring his 
file to deVere (UK) as he was now based in the UK.
In August  2015  it appears that an adviser from deVere (UK) met Mr M and recorded  some 
factfind information.  Under the heading  Your financial objectives. How can we help you? it 
said Pension. No further  detail  was provided.  Mr M also completed  and returned  a risk 
profile at around  the same time.
On 15 September  2015 the adviser from deVere  (UK) wrote to Mr M enclosing  a form to 
allow him to access the tax free lump sum from his pension  and requesting the necessary 
information to verify  Mr Ms identity.  It appears  that Mr M received  a 25% tax free cash  lump 
sum in late 2015.
On 7 December  2015 Mr Ms adviser emailed his former  overseas  adviser.  He said I am 
currently in conversation as to how best sort this client.  He should never have been moved 
out of a SIPP. 
Unfortunately it appears this adviser left deVere  shortly afterwards and in early 2016  another 
adviser got in touch  with Mr M to review  his pension arrangements.
This adviser  confirmed that Mr Ms pension pot (less  the 25% tax free lump sum already 
taken) was still held in the QROPS. A file note made by the adviser  in February  2016  said:
I met [Mr M] this morning  after being  passed his details recently. He was a client  of [name of 
previous adviser]  but was not allocated to anyone when [name  of previous adviser] initially  
left. When I met him today I explained that although  [name of previous  adviser]  had got him 
to sign some documents last year the advice process had not formally started, i.e. he had 
not been provided a report with initial advice and the fee side had not started either.
[Mr M] was under  the impression that his policies had been  actively  been managing his 
affairs (sic). When  I explained that this was not the case and with poor experiences overseas 
he said that he did not want to continue with deVere  for this reason, I explained that he 
needs to now liaise directly with the providers, unless he appoints  another  broker.
It appears that Mr M contacted the QROPS administrator and discussed the possibility of 
encashing his pension pot. He subsequently cancelled this request.
Ref: DRN29960222The QROPS  administrator then contacted Mr M to say that he would need to transfer his 
plan because its value  was below the minimum value permitted; I understand that Mr Ms 
pension pot was held in a cash  fund.
In July 2016 Mr M complained to deVere  (UK). He complained  about:
-the advice  he had received to transfer his pension pot to a QROPS  by the overseas 
adviser;
- the fall in the value of his pension pot;
- the delay in receiving  the tax free lump  sum from his QROPS;  and
- the failure to move  the money in his QROPS back to a UK based pension.
Mr M said:
In summary  my SIPP  fund has reduced  from £55,482 to only £29,481, after my 25% 
withdrawal (£13,749) a loss of £12,252. Markets have performed reasonably well during this 
period and therefore the fund should have increased in value. Further,  by taking receipt of 
the remaining  funds  I will incur additional  losses due to tax, a potential further loss of 
£11,792. I have  been badly advised and misled on a number of issues including transferring 
from SIPP to QROPS,  SIPP to SIPP and timely  indicators of performance.
Once again, I request deVere  to took at this matter and suggest  a satisfactory resolution 
where I am compensated  for the losses I have  incurred due to poor / misleading advice.
deVere (UK) helped Mr M move the money  in his pension pot from the QROPS.  It also 
investigated the fall in the value of Mr Ms fund. The were some  delays in dealing with this as 
the adviser Mr M was initially dealing  with left and Mr Ms case was then reallocated to 
another adviser.
In April 2017 deVere (UK) wrote  to Mr M about the fall in the value of his pension  pot. It 
explained that as it was not Mr Ms adviser at the time of the transfer  it had experienced 
some difficulties in getting information from the product provider about the performance of 
his pension pot. It said that having looked  into the matter it appeared that the fall in value 
was due to market movements and the fees and charges that had been deducted.
In July 2017 it sent Mr M a report setting out its recommendation  in relation to his QROPS. 
In the report it said that, as the QROPS administrator  had asked Mr M to transfer his funds 
out, it had not carried  out an analysis of Mr Ms QROPS or a cost comparison with the new 
plan being recommended.  It advised Mr M to transfer his pension pot to a SIPP.  It noted:
The Trustee will make  a charge of £1,000  for transferring the plan. deVere United Kingdom 
are not making  a charge  for arranging the transfer  and there is no set up fees for the plan I 
have recommended 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with the response he received  from deVere. In July 2017 he referred  
his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator explained that as the advice to transfer from the SIPP to a QROPS  was 
provided by an overseas  financial adviser we could  not consider this element  of Mr Ms 
complaint. He explained that the rules this service must follow  set out that, for us to be able 
to consider a complaint, it needs to meet a number of tests. These include the requirement 
that the business complained about  must  be an FCA regulated  firm and the complaint must 
be about a regulated activity which has taken place in an establishment in the UK.
Ref: DRN29960223As the advice to transfer from the SIPP to a QROPS was provided by an overseas business, 
not a UK regulated firm, he said this service  could not consider this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint. But he said we could consider the parts of Mr Ms complaint relating to the service  
he had received from deVere (UK).
Another adjudicator  then looked into the parts of Mr Ms complaint that this service could 
consider. Having done so, he said he thought  Mr Ms complaint about  the service  he had 
received from deVere (UK) should  be upheld.
He said he thought that, as well as helping Mr M to take the tax free lump  sum from his 
QROPS, deVere (UK) should  have immediately reviewed Mr Ms retirement planning  when 
he was referred to it in 2015. He said he felt it should have advised  Mr M to transfer  his 
pension pot from the QROPS  to a suitable, simple pension plan, invested into low to 
moderate risk funds.
Had it done so he said the problems Mr M subsequently experienced would have been 
avoided.
In order to put matters  right he said deVere (UK) should, as far as possible, put Mr M in the 
position he would now be in had his pension pot been transferred from the QROPS at the 
same time as he received the tax free cash. He also said it should  pay him £200  for the 
disruption caused to his retirement planning.
deVere (UK) did not accept our adjudicators view. It said that when Mr M was referred to it 
in 2015 his priority  had been  to access his tax free cash. It noted our adjudicator  accepted 
that once deVere (UK) became involved this had happened within a reasonable timescale.
It said it didnt agree that advice on transferring from the QROPS  to a UK personal pension 
could have been completed  between  September 2015 and November 2015 (when Mr M 
received the tax free cash) given the complexity  of the situation. And even if it had been 
possible to do so, it said it did not agree with our adjudicators  view that this would 
necessarily have been the most suitable course of action for Mr M given the costs  involved, 
and Mr Ms personal and financial circumstances.
It also noted that it had not made  any charge for the advice it subsequently gave Mr M on 
transferring his QROPS  when the administrator told Mr M that he would need to transfer his 
plan because its value  was below the minimum value permitted.
Our adjudicator responded to the points deVere had raised. He said he accepted that it had 
met Mr M originally to resolve the matter  of the unpaid tax free cash. But he said he 
remained of the view that deVere  should  also have immediately advised Mr M on his 
QROPS. He reiterated that he felt Mr M should  have  been advised  to transfer to a simpler 
personal pension  plan.
He said he felt the problems Mr M subsequently suffered, were because  the QROPS 
administrator asked him to transfer  away. If Mr M had already been advised  to transfer to a 
UK pension  plan he said this issue wouldnt have arisen. And he said he didnt think that the 
advice to transfer would have been complex or taken a long time.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 July 2020.  In it I set out that I 
thought Mr Ms complaint  should be upheld in part. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further information or evidence, if they wished,  before I finally determined this complaint.
Ref: DRN29960224My provisional findings were as follows:
As our adjudicator had explained, I reiterated that this service cannot  consider the advice  
Mr M received from his overseas adviser  to transfer his pension  pot from a SIPP  to a 
QROPS. I noted that Mr M is now pursuing  a complaint about the suitability of that advice 
with the overseas business responsible.
But, I explained that I could consider the service  and advice that deVere (UK) provided to 
Mr M on his return  to the UK. Having done  so, I said I had reached a different view to that of 
our adjudicator.
I said my provisional decision was that Mr Ms complaint should  be upheld in part. I said I 
thought that the service Mr M received from deVere (UK) was not as prompt and efficient as 
it should have  been. But I said I couldnt  safely say that it should  have  advised  Mr M to 
transfer out of the QROPS when it first met him in September 2015. 
I set out how I had reached  this view as follows:
Should deVere have advised  Mr M to transfer out of the QROPS in 2015?
At the time the adviser met Mr M in September 2015 Mr M had recently  returned  to the UK 
from overseas. The transfer  into the QROPS had only very recently  been  carried out. I said I 
could not comment  on the suitability of the advice given by the overseas business  to transfer 
Mr Ms SIPP benefits to the QROPS.
From the information available  I noted  that Mr Ms key focus was accessing the tax free 
cash. It appeared that obtaining a higher tax free lump sum was one of the key reasons 
Mr M had been advised to move his SIPP benefits  to the QROPS.
I said it was not in dispute that deVere (UK) helped Mr M to access  the tax free lump  sum by 
providing the necessary forms and information. I noted that Mr M was only able to access a 
25% tax free lump sum.
But I said that advising on whether Mr M should incur further costs,  including the penalties 
the QROPS administrator would apply and the cost of advice, as well as the tax implications 
for Mr M of moving his pension pot out of the QROPS and back  to a UK based pension  
particularly when Mr M had transferred into the QROPS so recently - was not, in my opinion, 
something that could  have been carried out quickly.
I was also mindful that Mr Ms pension  pot was worth around £50,000 before he took the tax 
free lump  sum, so any additional costs and charges would have had a significant impact  on 
the fund value.
In view of the potential complexity  of the advice  and the costs  involved I said I thought that 
deVere (UK) acted reasonably when it first assisted  Mr M with accessing the tax free cash  
before it then moved on to discuss what to do with the QROPS.
I noted that in Mr Ms complaint to deVere  he said that the adviser he spoke to in September  
2015 told him that ... it was not possible, or appropriate, or in fact happened that the SIPP  to 
QROPS transfer was made. He went on to advise on a new course of action in maintaining  
my SIPP in another format. This would be more appropriate and would enable  at least  a 
Ref: DRN2996022525% tax-free withdrawal.  At this point  I was quite desperate for funds and therefore had no 
hesitation in agreeing.
In November 2015, the 25% payment was received in to my bank, [name of adviser] advised 
that he would update  me of the status and value of the SIPP  in due course. 
But I said I hadnt seen  anything that showed  the adviser told Mr M that he could maintain 
his SIPP  in another format. At this point Mr M did not hold a SIPP. His pension pot had 
been transferred  to the QROPS and he no longer  held a SIPP. I said I thought there  may 
have been a genuine misunderstanding on this point.
In Mr Ms complaint he goes on to say that in February 2016,  a new adviser from deVere 
(UK) contacted him. He says this adviser  told him ...the SIPP  fund had issues  with the new 
managers, [name of QROPS administrator],  and required  me to sign a new agreement with 
de Vere before he could undertake any further  investigations or actions on my behalf I was, 
and remain, very concerned of the advice  being  provided. 
But in early 2016 Mr Ms funds were  still held in the QROPS,  not a SIPP.  So again, I said I 
thought there may have been  a genuine misunderstanding about this.
I said I thought this misunderstanding may have come about because  when deVere (UK) 
discussed accessing the tax free lump sum it would have  explained that the maximum Mr M 
would be able to take was 25%. Mr M says his key motivation for agreeing to transfer to the 
QROPS was to access a higher tax free lump sum, so I was of the view that he may have 
thought his funds had been transferred back to a SIPP as he was only eligible for a 25% tax 
free lump  sum. But this wasnt the case.
The tax implications of a QROPS and the criteria to qualify for a higher  tax free lump  sum 
can be complicated. If there was any confusion  about this it may well have, not 
unreasonably, led Mr M to think his pension  pot had been moved  back  to a SIPP.
I said I thought that deVere (UK) could have  done more to help Mr M understand that 
despite not being eligible  for a higher tax free lump  sum his pension pot was still held in the 
QROPS and had not been transferred (back) to a UK personal  pension.
But having  carefully considered all that had been said and provided on this point I said I 
didnt think I could safely say that deVere (UK) should have immediately advised Mr M to 
transfer out of the QROPS in 2015.
service Mr M received  from deVere (UK)
The adviser Mr M was dealing with changed  several  times.  I said I accepted that these 
changes were unavoidable, but I though Mr M experienced some delays as a result of this.
In particular, I noted that it was nearly  three months  between Mr M receiving  his tax free 
cash in November 2015 and the new adviser meeting him to review his pension  
arrangements.
It was, of course, Mr Ms prerogative  to tell deVere  (UK) that he didnt want it to act for him in 
early 2016.
Ref: DRN29960226I said I thought that after Mr M complained to deVere (UK) in mid 2016  it treated him fairly. It 
investigated the fall in the value of his pension pot and it advised him on moving  his pension 
pot out of the QROPS and into a SIPP. It did not charge for this work.
I was mindful that deVere experienced some problems getting  information from the product 
provider as Mr M had removed deVere (UK) as the servicing agent.
But I also noted that the work was delayed as the adviser Mr M was dealing  with left deVere 
(UK) in late 2016 and a new adviser  took over.  From the information  provided to this service 
it appeared that Mr M had to chase deVere  several times for information on progress.
I said I thought Mr M should be compensated for these delays and the inconvenience they 
had caused him. I said I must also take into account that although deVere (UK) addressed  
the issues Mr M had complained about  it did not issue a final response letter setting out its 
response to his complaint. Had it done so, I said I thought this would have  helped  Mr M to 
understand which elements of his complaint deVere  (UK) was responsible  for and which  
parts he would need to take up with the overseas adviser.
My provisional decision was that deVere  (UK) should pay Mr M £300 for the trouble and 
upset this matter had caused him.
Both Mr M and deVere (UK) responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr M and deVere (UK) accepted my provisional decision and neither party has 
provided any fresh information or evidence,  I find no basis to depart from my earlier  
conclusions.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order to resolve  this matter deVere (UK) 
should pay Mr M £300 for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2996022