K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund her for a cash  withdrawal 
made from her account at a branch. She says she didnt  take the money out and shes  the 
victim of fraud.
background
In 2018, Mrs S was going through some bank  statements and noticed a withdrawal of £1,500  
on 28 August 2015. The withdrawal was noted  with a persons name, which  Ill refer to as 
Mr B. Mrs S was sure she hadnt made  this withdrawal  so she contacted NatWest.
After a number of mistakes in the information  NatWest gave to Mrs S, the bank confirmed 
the withdrawal had been made in a branch,  which is now closed. NatWest  said the 
withdrawal was made using Mrs S debit card and her PIN was entered,  as identification. 
So it said it wouldnt refund the money.
Mrs S was adamant  she hadnt made the withdrawal. She thought Mr B must have done it. 
And, in view of the mistakes in what the bank  had said to her before, she was worried that 
NatWests record keeping  wasnt very good.
As Mrs S wasnt happy with NatWests response  she contacted us. One of our investigators 
looked into things  for her. But he agreed  with NatWest. The investigator thought it was most 
likely Mrs S had made the withdrawal  herself. She was reasonably sure she had her debit  
card in the day in question. And Mrs S was clear  she hadnt let anybody  else know  her PIN.
There seemed to be a plausible  connection with a cancelled cheque  for £750 around this 
time and a cash deposit of £750 later on in the day of the disputed  cash  withdrawal. Mrs S 
debit card was used to confirm the cash deposit,  which indicated  she had her card on the 
day in question. So the investigator didnt ask NatWest to do anything further.
And in concluding that Mrs S had most likely made  the withdrawal, the investigator had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for withdrawals in circumstances like this.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She was sure Mr B must have made  the withdrawal 
 perhaps using some form of internet scam.  So Mrs S complaint has been  passed to me to 
review and make a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs S feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what 
shes said to us and to NatWest. And that isnt surprising. The amount involved here is large 
- £1,500. So Mrs S is bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mrs S that I agree  with the adjudicator that NatWest doesnt have 
to refund the money.  Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what  the investigators 
already said to Mrs S. I think  hes set out the position quite clearly and thoroughly.
Ref: DRN24936672That said,  its important I reassure Mrs S that Ive considered her complaint afresh  and 
independently of what the investigator  has done.
Im aware Mrs S had moved not long before the disputed cash  withdrawal. So it isnt 
surprising that she was focussed on other things at the time. Its quite possible shes just 
forgotten the details of what happened at the time.
Ive looked at NatWests records. I can see the withdrawal  was made at a branch, which is 
now closed. That seems  to have added to the early confusion over what  happened.  NatWest  
didnt help matters  by making these mistakes. And I can understand why they would lead 
Mrs S to doubt what the bank has said.
But I am satisfied the records do show the withdrawal  being  made  at the branch. They  
clearly show Mrs S PIN was entered to confirm her identity  at the time. Mrs S is clear that 
shes never let anybody else know her PIN. Thats good. But it does mean  that its difficult  to 
explain how anybody other than her made the withdrawal.
Even if Mr B was able to get Mrs S debit card and PIN, hed be taking quite a risk in going to 
a branch and trying  to present himself as being her. And I doubt  hed then ask the cashier for 
the payment reference for the withdrawal (as required by the bank) to be his own name.  
There is no evidence to support Mrs S suggestion  Mr B might  have  been  able to carry out 
the withdrawal through some form of internet  scam.
The investigator noted the likely connection  between the disputed cash  withdrawal and two 
other transactions on Mrs S account.  The first is a cancelled cheque for £750.  Mrs S has 
said she thinks was a cheque for Mr B that she cancelled because  he hadnt  done all the 
work shed  asked him to do. The second is a cash deposit for £750   made just over one 
hour after the disputed withdrawal of £1,500.
The investigator thought it was possible Mrs S:
had originally  paid Mr B £750 by cheque but then decided to cancel it;
drawn the £1,500 with the intention of paying  Mr B;
paid Mr B £750 in cash; and
then, paid the excess £750  back into her account.
I agree  thats  quite  possible. But  in any event   the issue I have to consider  here is 
whether NatWest has done anything wrong  in not refunding Mr S the £1,500  she says she 
didnt withdraw. And Im satisfied it hasnt.
Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending/withdrawals.  And, on this occasion, Im 
satisfied NatWest can hold Mrs S responsible for the cash withdrawal.
I realise Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what  we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with NatWest  informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Mrs S any further on this.
Ref: DRN24936673my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2493667