K821x#15complaint
Mrs F says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs 
F bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a personal loan. Mrs F took 
the 
loan and PPI out over the phone. The loan was set to run for three years. It included an 
amount to pay for the PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. This is because Im not confident that shed have 
been able to make a successful claim for unemployment on the policy.
I think its unlikely that Nationwide advised Mrs F to buy the PPI. So it didnt need to check 
that 
it was suitable for her. But it still had a responsibility to give her enough information to 
decide for herself whether the policy met her needs.
Mrs F has told us she was working for her father when she took out the loan and PPI. And 
she 
says he was the majority shareholder in the company.
The policy says:

You are self-employed if:
You are carrying on a business in the United Kingdom alone or as a partner in a
partnership; 
or
You can control the affairs of a company You work for because either You, or a
relative 
or spouse, individually or jointly, hold the majority of the voting rights in that
company; or
You can otherwise ensure that the company You work for conducts its affairs
according 
to Your wishes. 
DRN21093792To claim  for unemployment as a self-employed person,  the policy says that you have to 
provide evidence that:
You stopped  work  because  You could not find enough work  to meet  all Your reasonable 
business and living expenses
Its true that Mrs F has described herself as having been employed when she took out the 
PPI. But from what shes told us of her circumstances at the time,  I think  theres at least a 
risk that shed have  fallen  within the definition of self-employed  as set out in the policy  
document. 
I acknowledge that Nationwide doesnt  agree with this interpretation of the definition of self-
employed. It says, in summary, that Mrs F wouldnt have been  classified  as self-employed 
purely because  she worked for her fathers  business. It says that in order  to come within the 
definition, shed also have  had to be able to control  the companys affairs. And it doesnt  
think it likely  that she was in a position  to do so.
Ive thought carefully about what Nationwide has said. I think theres some ambiguity  in the 
way the definition of self-employed is drafted. But I think that theres  a reasonable 
argument that if a relative of the policyholder  held the majority  of voting rights in the 
company that the policyholder worked for, the policyholder  would automatically  be regarded 
as being able to control  the affairs of the company. And so the policyholder  would be classed 
as self-employed  for the purposes of the policy.
So I cant be sure that Mrs F would have been able to make  a successful claim for 
unemployment if shed  been made redundant. If she was treated  as self-employed,  I think 
its unlikely that shed have been  able to make a successful  claim under  the unemployment 
part of the policy as long as her fathers business continued. And I dont  think shed have 
gone ahead  and bought  the policy if this risk had been drawn to her attention.
putting things right
Mrs F borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been,  
and she paid more  than she should  have  each month. So Mrs F needs to get back  the extra 
she paid. 
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mrs F the difference between what she paid each month  on the loan 
and what she would  have  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs F paid each month  from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.3my final  decision
My final decision  is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I require Nationwide Building Society to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2019..
Juliet Collins
ombudsman