K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that a new car she got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Volkswagen  Financial Services)
(VFS) is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 September  2020.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and this 
forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I explained what Id decided about 
this complaint and what I intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the 
parties.
Both parties  have responded.  Miss R is unhappy with the outcome proposed which  she 
thinks is unfair. She says she was left with no option  but to stop making  her monthly  
payments - as nothing  was being  done.  And she was obliged  to keep driving this car - which  
was very stressful and made her anxious.  But, VFS will benefit from delay in sorting things 
out due to the interest charged  under the finance  as she has already paid more than £5,000 
yet VFS will get the car back and its worth  about £4,000 less than the original  price.  
VFS says Miss R paid £531 when she got this car (as set out in the HPA) but £500 was 
applied to settle an existing credit commitment  for her previous car and only £31 went 
towards this HPA. VFS objects to amending Mrs Rs credit file as she has failed to maintain  
her contractual payments  and her credit record should reflect that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss R is disappointed with the outcome set out in my provisional decision. I 
realise she was upset and inconvenienced as a result of what happened  and she was 
disappointed by the response  when she complained about the car. But, Miss R brings this 
complaint about  VFS to our service because this car was supplied under a finance 
agreement. That means Im looking at the obligations VFS has arising out of the HPA and 
Im unable to hold VFS responsible for the dealers after sale service and/or  the actions of 
the manufacturer. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think it fair that Miss R should be allowed to reject 
the car. But, Im satisfied  that she was able to drive it for most of the time and I find it 
reasonable that she should pay for the use she had of the vehicle. Having considered  
carefully the distress, inconvenience  and impaired use she experienced, I remain  of the view 
that a 10% refund  of each  monthly payment is fair overall. 
I have considered the other comments made by Miss R about  the finance,  and the interest 
charged in particular. I would have expected Miss R to consider the terms of the finance, 
such as the interest  rate, at the outset  when she decided to take out the HPA. I dont think 
it would  be appropriate  for me to look into these matters at this late stage. If Miss R feels she 
was misled in some  way she would  need  to raise  this with VFS first. And, if she is unhappy 
with the response, she may be able to bring  another complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN29895642Miss R did not disagree with what VFS said about the deposit so I find shes  entitled to a 
refund of £31 only, in respect of this HPA. Miss R stopped  making her monthly payments 
towards the HPA last year.  I appreciate  she did this due to frustration about ongoing issues 
and what she felt was a failure  to take her complaints seriously. I have considered  what VFS 
has said about information recorded on her credit file. But, Im not persuaded that it is fair for 
Miss Rs credit record to be impacted adversely, in these particular circumstances. If 
adverse information  was recorded about  this HPA, I remain of the view that it is fair for VFS 
to rectify this. 
Ive explained  already  why I think its reasonable that Miss R should pay for the use she had 
of the car. Aside from the amount of the deposit refund, nothing  the parties have said has 
changed my mind about the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision. VFS has 
confirmed it will accept repayment of the arrears less 10% - in line with my provisional 
findings. I think thats fair and, if Miss R is not in a position to pay what  she owes  in one lump 
sum, I would  expect VFS to agree a suitable repayment plan. Miss R should be aware 
however that it would be open to VFS to report to credit  reference agencies going  forward  if 
payments towards  this are not maintained.   
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (trading as Volkswagen Financial Services) to
1.end the HPA with nothing  further  to pay and collect the car at no cost to Miss R;
2.refund  the deposit of £31;
3.refund  10% of each monthly  payment  for impaired use, distress,  and 
inconvenience;
4.pay 8% simple interest on any refunds from the date of payment until the date
of settlement; and
5.remove any adverse information  recorded  about this finance  from Miss R's
credit file.
If VFS considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss R how much  it has taken off. It should  also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29895643copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss R complains  that a new car she got with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) from Volkswagen 
Financial Services  (UK) Limited (trading  as Volkswagen Financial Services) (VFS)  is of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
background
Miss R got this car in April 2018. She had problems with the electronic parking brake  soon after 
collection  the car would roll back at times and the auto-hold function took too long to dis-engage. 
The issues were intermittent  and Miss R wasnt familiar  with this kind of brake so she decided to wait 
a while to see if she could  get used it but things  didnt  improve. She took the car back to the 
dealership in June 2018. The dealer couldnt find a fault and told her the issues were  probably due to 
driving style. 
Miss R remained unhappy and she complained to the dealer again  in July and September the same 
year but nothing was done. Near the end of 2018  the manufacturer  issued a recall letter  that said 
some models  needed a software update  to resolve a parking brake  problem. Miss R took her car back  
to the dealer again and the recall fix was applied.  The dealer also gave Miss R £200 of shopping 
vouchers for the trouble  shed experienced. Miss R found this repair resolved part of the problem  
the car stopped rolling back. But she continued to have trouble with the auto-hold function.  She says 
the car is unsafe as this means  sometimes the car wont move and then does so unexpectedly - 
which could cause an accident. She told VFS she wanted to reject the car and VFS contacted 
manufacturer. 
The manufacturer said it was aware of the problem but this wasnt related  to the previous recall and 
didnt affect safety. The manufacturer confirmed  it was looking for a technical  fix but couldnt  say 
when that might be available. In view of the manufacturers comments, VFS upheld  the complaint. It 
offered to pay Miss R £850  (20% of 12 months rentals) in recognition of the fact that she paid for a 
feature which  was unavailable. VFS didnt think Miss R should be entitled to reject the car as the 
ongoing issue  was intermittent, affected  by driving style and auto-hold is a comfort feature that can be 
turned off so Miss R could drive safely  without  it. 
Miss R didnt think that was fair and she brought her complaint to our service. The manufacturer 
supplied another fix in the meantime and the car went back to the dealer for more  repairs in May 
2019. Miss R says they didnt work  and she continues to have the same issues - warning lights  
illuminate, it feels like the brake  is still on when  she tries to pull away  and the car can then move 
quickly unexpectedly. She lost faith in the car and wants VFS to take it back. 
One of our investigators considered the evidence. He was satisfied the manufacturer acknowledged 
there were issues  with the parking brake and the auto-hold function. He accepted repairs  were carried  
out to resolve these but he wasnt persuaded they were  completely successful.  He thought  there was 
still a safety issue - as it could cause a collision if the driver attempted to pull away and the auto hold 
didnt dis-engage. He didnt  think it was fair that Miss R should have to keep the car in these 
circumstances and recommended  VFS should:-  
end the HPA with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no further cost
return the deposit  paid of £531  and pay 8% simple  interest on that from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement;
pay £850  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience/loss of use; and
remove any adverse  information from Miss R's credit  file.
VFS was unhappy with that outcome. It considered  the car was repaired successfully. It offered to pay 
for an independent expert to check if there were faults still present. That inspection took place in 
October 2019 and the expert was unable to replicate  the problems Miss R described. VFS says she 
shouldnt therefore  be entitled to reject the car. 
Ref: DRN29895644Our investigator considered the experts evidence but this didnt change  his view.  He wasnt 
persuaded that the expert would necessarily have experienced such an intermittent  issue over a 
relatively short test drive  that didnt  reflect normal  use. He was satisfied the faults Miss R reported 
early on were accepted later by the manufacturer and he found her evidence about this persistent 
fault to be credible and consistent. On balance, he considered the car was probably of unsatisfactory 
quality at the outset and repair  attempts  hadnt worked so a fault is still present. And he found it was 
fair that Miss R should be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund and compensation
VFS doesnt think it is reasonable to allow rejection based on Miss Rs evidence  alone  the when  the 
expert could  not replicate  the fault.  VFS says any ongoing issue may be the result of her not 
depressing the clutch petal completely as this can affect the auto-hold function. And it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what  I consider is most likely  to have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
was the car of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied?
VFS supplied  this car to Miss R under a HPA and it was required - under  the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) - to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality when she got it. What amounts to 
satisfactory quality varies,  depending on individual circumstances. But its generally reasonable  to 
take a cars age, cost and mileage at the point of supply  into account.  This car was new and cost over 
£22,000 and I think Miss R had a reasonable  expectation  that it would  be fault free at the outset. 
Im satisfied Miss R has described  clearly  and consistently the problems  she had with the parking 
brake and the auto-hold function within weeks of collecting this car. I understand she took the car 
back to the dealer several times  within  the first six months about  these but the dealer couldnt find a 
fault and told Miss R the issue lay with her driving style. According to the manufacturers website the 
electronic parking brake lets drivers  park quickly  and easily and the auto-hold  function is an 
extension of the electronic parking brake system. This stops the car from rolling back when stationary 
or setting off on a hill which means the driver  doesnt have to apply the parking brake manually,  check 
if this is applied or worry about the car rolling  back  which is convenient, more comfortable and safer  
in situations where the car needs to be kept stationary with the engine  running, such as in slow 
moving traffic.   
Ive seen a copy of a recall  letter the manufacturer issued that says there was a problem  with some of 
its cars in that in certain circumstancesan unintentional automatic  release of the electronic parking 
brake may occur. For safety reasons the software for the electric  parking brake  (ESC  control  unit) has 
to be updated. This update ensures  that when releasing  the clutch  the electric parking brake  only 
automatically releases after pressing the accelerator pedal.
Im satisfied this confirms the parking brakes in some models had an inherent manufacturing  defect 
that meant there was a risk the car might roll away in certain circumstances. I think  this sounds 
consistent with one of the issues that Miss R had been back  and forth to the dealer about  over the 
first nine months or so of driving  this car. And Im satisfied her car was likely supplied with this 
inherent fault. 
I accept the dealer carried  out some repairs to resolve the issue in December  2018.  Miss R 
acknowledged that those  were successful - in that the car stopped rolling back. But she remained 
unhappy as the auto-hold  problem persisted. Although it was not part of the previous recall, the 
manufacturer appears to have accepted there  was a manufacturing defect with this as well. And I 
Ref: DRN29895645dont think VFS disputes that  as it acknowledged this was a known issue  when it said providing  a 
replacement car for Miss R would not be appropriate as any replacement might have the same fault. 
I am satisfied  this means Miss Rs car still had a fault present after the dealer carried out the first 
recall repair  in December 2018 - and the manufacturer was unable to confirm, at that point,  when this 
might be fixed. I think its arguable that VFS should reasonably have allowed Miss R to reject  this car 
at that stage. I note however the manufacturer said it had resolved the problem  a few months later. 
And I think it was reasonable of Miss R to allow  the dealer another opportunity to fix the car. The 
question for me to determine  now is whether the latest repairs were successful.  Miss R says they 
didnt work and she is still having intermittent issues  sometimes  she can go for a week with no 
problem and then it will happen three times in one day. VFS didnt think  this evidence was sufficient to 
justify rejection so it suggested an independent expert should be instructed to inspect the car. Miss R 
agreed and I think it was reasonable of her to do so. 
expert evidence
I have read the experts report. He says he carried out a 7.4-mile road test at speeds up to 30mph  
including stop/start driving conditions through inner town and housing estate roads  with the brake 
auto hold function activated  throughout  without  issue. I accept  the expert didnt experience  the 
ongoing problem  that Miss R reported. But, I dont think thats  surprising given the relatively short  time 
he had the car. I am not persuaded  that the sort of snapshot of performance that a relatively  short test 
drive provides in this situation should reasonably outweigh the experience Miss R has reported 
credibly and consistently for more than a year. I can see the expert also checked the car for fault 
codes and none were found. But I dont think that takes matters much further - as the dealer found  no 
fault codes stored when  Miss R first complained  yet the manufacturer subsequently accepted faults 
would have been present  at that time. 
does the car still have  a fault?
I am satisfied  that Miss R was clear about the unpredictable and intermittent nature of this issue. I 
note our investigator also made the point at the time that an expert might not be able to replicate the 
problem during  a normal inspection. And I think it was open to VFS to arrange for a longer one if it 
wanted to. Likewise, if VFS considered the erratic auto hold that Miss R described was down to the 
way she depresses  the clutch, not a fault, then it might have been useful to arrange for that to be 
checked in some  way  the expert could perhaps have observed her driving the car. I note the expert 
says Miss R wasnt available on the day of the inspection  but I dont think  it would have been too 
difficult to arrange one for a day that she was available.  
I have no doubt it must have  been frustrating for Miss R to be told by the dealer early  on that the 
problems she had were  due to the way she drove the car. I think  its clear  from the manufacturers 
subsequent acceptance of the presence of faults that wasnt the case. And I think its somewhat 
unhelpful to continue to suggest that these ongoing issues are caused by Miss Rs style of driving. I 
am not persuaded thats likely, on balance. I find it difficult to see why an experienced driver like Miss 
R would find herself unable to operate a clutch pedal  properly  at some times but not others, during  the 
course of normal driving. And Miss R told us her husband drives the car as well and he has the same 
issues. 
Like our investigator,  I find Miss Rs evidence  about  the nature and frequency  of the issues she had 
with this car to be consistent and credible. Im satisfied she was quick to acknowledge  the first recall 
had worked.  And Im not persuaded that shes likely to continue  to report problems with the auto hold 
function if that was fixed. For the reasons I have set out, I think  it is more likely than not there is still 
something wrong with this car due to a manufacturing defect. 
putting things right
Taking everything I have seen into account,  I think it is likely this car was supplied  with inherent faults 
meaning it was of unsatisfactory quality.  The CRA says VFS was entitled to one opportunity to have 
Ref: DRN29895646the car fixed in this situation and Im satisfied repairs have been attempted at least  twice here. I am 
not persuaded  its fair that Miss R should have to keep this car. I think  it is reasonable to allow her to 
exercise her final right to reject, in these particular circumstances.  Im minded to agree with our 
investigator that VFS should therefore arrange to take the car back at no additional cost to Miss R and 
refund the deposit she paid  which  is recorded as £531 under the HPA, with interest. 
As far as I can see Miss R was kept mobile  while  the car was off the road for repairs and 
investigations. I accept she had some use of the car although I think  this was probably impaired  due 
to the presence of faults. Miss R told us she hasnt driven  the car as much as she otherwise would. 
And that seems  to be borne  out by the mileage she covered  which, even  taking account of the 
impact of Covid, is lower than the annual mileage she declared for insurance.  
Im satisfied Miss R is also likely to have experienced upset and inconvenience. I can see she had to 
take the car back to the dealer several times for investigations and repairs and I think  the issues  
present are likely to have caused  her frustration  and worry. VFS offered previously to pay Miss R 
£850, which was broadly  equal  to 20% of 12 monthly payments, in recognition of the cars loss of 
function. I think this was probably also intended  to compensate  Miss R for associated  distress  and 
inconvenience. Our investigator thought that was reasonable overall  when he issued his view  but 
Im conscious  Miss R only had the car for a little over 12 months at that time.  
Ive given  some thought  to what amounts to fair compensation here for impaired use, distress and 
inconvenience. Taking  into account  the fact that some problems were  resolved in January  2018,  the 
intermittent nature of the ongoing issue and the £200 worth of vouchers already provided by the 
dealer, I am minded  to find it fair overall that VFS provides a refund  of 10% of each monthly  payment 
until the car is collected. 
I understand Miss R stopped making  her monthly payments  in September 2019. I understand this was 
due to her frustration at VFSs refusal to take the car back.  But Im satisfied she had some use of the 
car and I think  it is reasonable  that she should pay for that. I dont however think  it is fair that her 
credit record should be adversely affected  - provided  she is able to bring her payments up to date 
(subject to the refunds Ive referred to above).  
I now invite  both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence (that I havent seen 
previously) by the date below. Ill look at all of the evidence again  after that and make my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submission that I may receive by 25 September  2020 my decision is I intend to 
uphold this complaint and require Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited  (trading as 
Volkswagen Financial Services) to
1.end the HPA with nothing further to pay;
2.collect the car at no cost to Miss R;
3.refund the deposit  of £531; 
4.refund 10% of each monthly payment for impaired use, distress, inconvenience;
5.pay 8% simple interest on any refunds from the date of payment  until the date of 
settlement; and 
6.remove any adverse  information recorded about this finance from Miss R's credit file.
Ref: DRN2989564