K821x#15complaint
Ms T is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) declining  her claim and 
voiding her pet insurance policy. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 October 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  Both sides to the dispute have seen my 
provisional decision on this case. I wont repeat all the details here, but will give a brief 
summary.
Ms T was unhappy RSA had voided  her policy following a claim she made for the front left 
paw of her dog. RSA said the voidance of the policy  should be disclosed by Ms T to future 
insurance companies when applying for other policies.  
In my provisional decision I was minded to uphold  the case. So I asked RSA to re-instate 
Ms Ts policy  and remove any listings on the fraud databases where applicable. I also 
considered Ms Ts claim for Incomplete Ossification  of the Humeral  Condyle (IOHC) to the 
front left paw of her pet was likely  pre-existing.  But RSA should consider any further claims 
she has in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
Since I issued my provisional  decision Ms T has said she accepts my findings. RSA has 
confirmed its received my provisional decision.  It says it has nothing  to add. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms T nor RSA have disagreed with my provisional decision  I find no reason to 
depart from my original  findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc 
should;
Reinstate Ms Ts policy and remove any listing  on the fraud  databases if applicable. 
Consider any further claims Ms T has for K in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27240972copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to uphold it.
RSA voiding this policy
The issue for me to decide is whether RSAs decision to void Ms Ts insurance policy from the start of 
the policy  is fair and reasonable.  Where  there is a dispute  about  what  has happened, I have to base 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence.  
The question is whether  or not Ms T intended  to gain a benefit  to which  she wasnt entitled when she 
informed RSA (over  the phone)  the first sign of Ks symptoms  started  a week earlier when this wasnt 
the case. 
Overall Im satisfied  on balance  Ms T made an honest  mistake when discussing  her claim on the 
phone with RSA in December 2018. And I dont believe  Ms T set out to deliberately deceive RSA. 
During the call she said the first signs were only known a week  before the claim. However,  I believe 
Ms T was distinguishing between what she believed were joint and swelling issues in October and 
November and the issue she claimed for in December - IOHC. 
Ms T makes the distinction  between  the joint swelling and the IOHC because when she saw the vet 
on 28 November K was no longer limping.  And the vet notes  confirm this. Then the next week Ms T 
visited the vets again. At this point  the diagnosis  was made. And Im satisfied it was this diagnosis 
Ms T was referring to when  making the claim. 
I say this because when listening  to the investigation  call in January 2019 Ms T confirms the swelling  
and joint issues are probably linked to what was eventually diagnosed in December  2018. Im 
satisfied if Ms T was trying  to make a dishonest claim she wouldnt have been forthcoming with this 
information. She was happy to discuss the claim history during this call. And without the notes  in front 
of her she wasnt able to give exact dates as she mentioned. During this call she confirmed there 
were issues  with K in October  and November.  But what she claimed for was the condition diagnosed  
in early December 2018. 
Therefore Im not satisfied  Ms T intended  to gain a benefit she wasnt entitled to here. I believe this 
was an honest mistake  and RSA cannot fairly  void her policy as a result of how Ms T made  the claim. 
RSA has mentioned an issue with Ms T answering  no to the question  about  whether K had any 
health issues at the point of sale. But I dont think its fair for RSA to void this policy based upon how 
Ms T answered this question. I believe RSA affirmed this insurance contract  by using  a term from the 
policy to void it following the claim  for IOHC. RSA cant on the one hand affirm a contract  as valid by 
relying on a term contained  within in, and then on the other hand seek  to treat the policy as void due 
to a misrepresentation at the point of sale.
Therefore I believe RSA should reinstate Ms Ts policy.
Ms Ts claim for IOHC on Ks front left paw
After reviewing the vets notes and what Ms T told RSA I believe this condition started before the 
policy was taken out. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions which say RSA will not pay any claims 
for any changes in Ks health that are noticed before the policy starts. And the vet has confirmed this 
claim is linked  to the vet notes from 20 October 2018 which state the limping had been going on for 
two/three weeks.
Ref: DRN27240973summary 
Having considered  the above Im satisfied RSA should reinstate Ms Ts policy. But the IOHC on the 
front left paw Ms T has claimed for is most likely pre-existing. So Im not minded to ask RSA to pay 
the claim Ms T claimed for in relation  to the IOHC in Ks front left paw. 
Ms T has mentioned in her complaint form K needed to have  an operation on the other leg for IOHC.  
She also has a claim for gastroenteritis. I believe these claims  should now be considered  in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should;
Reinstate Ms Ts policy  and remove any listing  on the fraud databases if applicable. 
Consider any further claims Ms T has for K in line with the remaining  terms and conditions 
of the policy.  
Ref: DRN2724097