K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
In March 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In it, I explained  why I was intending to 
reach a slightly different  outcome  to our adjudicator who had upheld  Mr Cs complaint  from 
loan 5-9. 
I said I thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld from loan 4 onwards. In summary I said 
that when Mr C took out loan 4 the figures  Mr C provided Sunny about  his income and his 
expenditure meant he had little money left with which  to pay for any unforeseen expenses. 
And when  it gave Mr C loan 5 this created  a deficit in his budget as he was still repaying  loan 
4 as well.
By the time Sunny provided loans 6-8 Mr C wasnt  managing  to repay  his loans sustainably 
and by loan 9 the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr C should  have  alerted it 
to the fact that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I asked Sunny to put things right from loan 4 onwards. A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
A copy of my provisional decision was sent to both parties. Sunny said it was disappointed 
with my findings but had nothing further it wished to add. Mr C accepted my provisional  
decision. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision 
and I uphold Mr Cs complaint from loan 4 onwards.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4-9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4-8 from Mr Cs credit file;
Any information recorded about  loan 9 is adverse. So, loan 9 should  be removed 
from Mr Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN29760162my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and as set out in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint from loan 4 onwards and Elevate Credit  International  Limited  should  put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29760163COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  trading as Sunny irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  nine loans Sunny provided  to Mr C between April 2018 and August  2018.  Mr 
Cs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
Mr C said the lack of affordability caused  him to get into more debt. He felt that Sunny had failed  to 
check his affordability.  Mr C said he tried to repay the loans early  to stop interest rates stacking up, 
but this caused him day to day living problems as he was unable to repay living expenses  and other 
debts and he had to borrow from friends and family.
Sunny said it had undertaken eligibility, creditworthiness and affordability checks before making a 
decision as to whether to provide a loan. Each of these checks  were  carried out as part of its lending 
criteria. It also said it had only given Mr C nine loans out of the 14-loan applications  Mr C made.
Our adjudicator couldnt  say it was unfair for Sunny to provide Mr C with loans 1-4. But he said loans 
5-9 shouldnt  have been provided to him. He said loan 5 represented a significant  proportion  of Mr Cs 
income. He also said the overall pattern of borrowing from loan 6 showed that the loans were  
unsustainable.
Sunny agreed that loan 5 should not have been given as it exceeded  his net monthly income.  It made  
no offer about  this loan. It also said that the evidence  showed the remainder  of the loans were 
affordable and all the loans were repaid. Mr C responded explaining that when Sunny mentioned 
early repayments, this was mainly due to him seeking help elsewhere to pay the debts back  early to 
avoid getting into more debt.  And he pointed out that he felt it was easy  to get the loan without Sunny 
doing proper checks. He also thought the loans from 3 onwards should not have been given due to 
their affordability. 
Later Sunny revised  the position and said it would offer £147.63 to settle the matter in relation to 
loans 8 and 9 and update Mr Cs credit file. Mr C did not accept this offer and as the parties are not in 
agreement the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr C could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
Ref: DRN29760164the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr C 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Im intending to uphold this complaint from loan 4 onwards. I 
will explain why.
For the first three loans I cant say that Sunny needed to do more or that it needed to take steps to 
verify the information Mr C had given  them as it was at an early  stage of the lending relationship. 
Based on the information Mr C had provided  to Sunny and taking into account the loan repayment 
amounts it appears  that these loans were affordable. So, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint about 
loans 1-3.
When Mr C took out his fourth  loan,  he again gave Sunny details  of his income  and his expenditure. 
This time Mr Cs expenditure had increased, and his loan repayments had also gone up substantially.  
On the information and the figures Mr C had presented to Sunny, I think this likely would have shown 
Sunny that he only had around £55 remaining  with which  to use to repay  any unforeseen expenses. 
I think  its likely that when Mr C took out loan 4, this created a shortfall in his finances and meant  he 
had to borrow further to cover the hole repaying  loan 4 was making in his finances. When Sunny  gave 
Mr C his fifth loan, loan 4 was still outstanding and it would have meant the combined repayment of 
loan 4 and 5 totalled around £123.00. The combined  repayment of loan 4 and 5 resulted in a deficit in 
his account of around £106.00. So, I dont think Mr C could  repay  either of these  loans in a 
sustainable manner.
By the time Sunny provided loans 6, 7 and 8 Mr C wasnt managing to repay his loans  sustainably. 
For each  borrowing from loan 5 onwards he had created a hole in his finances which increased by 
loan 8. On the information Sunny obtained  from Mr C, it would likely have been clear to Sunny that Mr 
C had a deficit  in his monthly  finances which by loan 8 had increased to £260.40. So, I dont think  for 
all these loans 4-8 he could  have repaid them in a sustainable manner, and I intend to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about these  loans.
  
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr C, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which Sunny should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
Ref: DRN29760165unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 9. I say 
this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have  realised  Mr C was not managing  to repay his loans  
sustainably. Mr C had taken out 9 loans in just over 4 months  and this was the fourth group of 
lending - whereby Mr C had taken out loans 1 and 2 in April 2018,  then continued  to borrow 
loans 3,4,5,6 and 7 within days of each other in June. Loan 8 was taken out in July and loan 9 
was taken  out in August. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C 
was having to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving  in his 
finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £200 and loan 9 was for £400.  So within just over four months Mr Cs 
loan principal had doubled. At this point Sunny ought to have  known that Mr C was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary  shortfall in their income  but to meet an ongoing need.  
Loan  9 was provided  in just over a month after settling loan 8 but it was given  to Mr C only 
five days  since hed repaid  loan 7. 
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 9 was taken  out in 
just over four months from the first and was Mr Cs fourth group of lending.  And it was for 
double the amount. Mr C had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to 
Sunny over an extended  period.
I think  that Mr C lost out because Sunny continued to provide  borrowing from loan 9 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Mr C borrowed  was likely to have had 
negative implications  on Mr Cs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these  high-cost  loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about  loans 4-8 and loan 9 and Sunny should  put things 
right as set out below.
putting things  right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans  4-9;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  4-8 from Mr Cs credit file;
Any information recorded  about  loan 9 is adverse. So loan 9 should be removed from Mr Cs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN29760166my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending to partly uphold Mr Cs complaint about loans  4-9.
Subject to both parties coming  back to me with any other information they wish me to take into 
account, before I make my final decision, Im intending  to ask Elevate Credit International Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2976016