K821x#15complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about advice he says he received in early 2012 from Capital Asset 
Management Ltd (CAM)  about his self invested  personal pension (SIPP).
background
In 2011 CAM  advised  Mr T to switch his personal  pension to a SIPP.  Mr T transferred funds 
of around £60,000  from his personal pension plan to a SIPP and made the following 
investments. 
 £24,811  into Gulf Keystone Petroleum on 2 August 2011
 £7,930  into Goldstone  Resources Ltd on 2 August 2011
 £19,842  into BT Group on 19 August 2011
In early 2012 Mr Ts holding in the BT Group was sold. The disinvestment of the BT holding
took place on 19 January  2012 for £24,531 and the next day £19,843 was used to purchase
a further holding in Gulf Keystone  Petroleum.  In addition  to that investment Mr T went  on to 
purchase, via his SIPP, shares in New World Oil & Gas plc (now Eridge Capital Ltd) in two 
separate sums on 6 February 2012  of £4,688 and £5,311. 
Mr T says the investments were recommended and selected for him by CAM. But CAM says 
differently  that the sale of Mr Ts BT shares and the new investments were completed  on a 
non-advised basis, Mr T having approached  CAM with his chosen investment selections.
Mr T complained to CAM about  his SIPP. CAM didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr T referred it 
to us. CAM said Mr Ts complaint hadnt been  made in time and we couldnt investigate  it. 
One of my ombudsmen colleagues considered that. She issued provisional jurisdiction 
decisions on 23 May 2019 and 3 February  2020.  She then issued a jurisdiction  decision  on 
18 May 2020. She said we couldnt consider a complaint  about  the initial advice to set up the 
SIPP, transfer funds  and make various investments in 2011. She thought, although there 
was inconsistency  and disagreement about  what happened, Mr T had sufficient information 
by April 2013 (or at the latest  April 2014) to be aware he had cause for complaint about 
those matters. So those  aspects of his complaint hadnt been made in time. 
But Mr T had complained in a meeting  on 15 January  2018  about advice allegedly given by 
CAM on 19 and 20 January and 6 February  2012  to disinvest his BT shares and buy a 
further holding  in Gulf Keystone Petroleum and shares in New World Oil & Gas. That 
complaint had been made within the primary six year period and so we could consider it. My 
colleague also said we could consider a complaint about fees taken after 15 January 2012.
Weve considered the two complaints under  separate reference numbers. The complaint  
were considering here is (as set out above) the complaint about the advice Mr T alleges he 
was given in early 2012. But as theres some  overlap weve investigated that complaint 
alongside the other complaint about  fees paid for CAM  after 15 January  2012 for ongoing 
advice/reviewing Mr Ts SIPP.  
Our investigator issued  his view on the current complaint (about the advice Mr T says CAM 
gave in early 2012)  on 28 June 2020.  He  upheld the complaint. In summary he said: 
Ref: DRN24412382There was limited  evidence and contradictory comments had been made about what  
had happened.
CAM had said that for each of the transactions advice  was given and fund selection 
discussed but Mr T went on to make  the investment selection himself,  although  he 
was advised not to invest in just one companys shares. But CAM had also said that 
its adviser had met with Mr T in January 2012  and told him that the BT shares had 
increased to £2.02 and the Gulf Keystone Petroleum had more  than doubled to 
£2.78. Mr T had then instructed the adviser to sell the BT shares for £24,520 and 
purchase a further £20,000 Gulf Keystone Petroleum shares. That was done on an 
execution only basis and no advice given. The shares continued to rise to £4.45 and 
selling was discussed but Mr T decided against  as there  was press speculation that 
the company was to be taken over for £8 a share. 
Mr T had said differently  that Gulf Keystone Petroleum had been promoted by 
CAM. 
It was unclear if the transactions   the purchase of the shares in Gulf Keystone  
Petroleum and New World  Oil & Gas plc  had been made  on an execution  only, 
insistent client or advised basis. 
There was no evidence Mr T had arranged share investments prior to the SIPP  
having been set up. His personal pension had been invested for a long time in 
standard investments. The switch to the SIPP (which we werent considering)  had 
been on an advised basis. Mr T didnt seem  to have been an active  and experienced 
investor. Making large execution only investments would be out of character. Hed 
said hed raised the idea of investing  in BT. But Gulf Keystone Petroleum wasnt a 
household name  like BT. It was likely that the possibility of investing  had been  
brought to Mr Ts attention by someone  with investment knowledge. 
CAM had said that Mr T had given an instruction but CAM had also said thered been 
discussions about the funds. And that supported what CAM had said about having 
given advice. But there was no documentary evidence of any advice. 
The investigator wasnt  persuaded that the investments had been arranged on an 
execution only basis. If advice was given Mr T had either followed a recommendation 
or hed decided to proceed against  advice  not to invest and so been treated as an 
insistent client. There was nothing  to indicate  the transaction was against the 
advisers recommendation.  From what hed seen the investigator concluded that Mr T 
had been advised  to make the investments and theyd been promoted to him.  
The investments  meant  Mr Ts SIPP was invested in three different companies. It 
lacked diversification  and that was compounded  by the concentration in companies 
relating to commodities.  The strategy  was high risk and speculative. 
CAM had said Mr Ts attitude to risk was higher than medium.  Even if that was 
correct, the portfolio  posed higher risk than Mr Ts stated  attitude to risk. And Mr T 
couldnt afford to lose his pension investments  he didnt  have other assets to rely 
on in retirement so he didnt have the capacity for loss to invest  taking a high risk. 
The investments  made  in 2012 were wholly unsuitable for Mr T. If CAM had given 
suitable advice  it would have recommended that the new investments were spread 
across various asset classes  and sectors to reduce the risk associated with individual  
holdings. If Mr T had been given suitable advice, he wouldnt have  insisted on going 
against it. 
The investigator set out how CAM needed to redress Mr T. Essentially  it needed  to compare 
the amounts Mr T invested in 2012 in Gulf Keystone Petroleum and New World  Oil & Gas 
plc to a benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return index). 
Ref: DRN24412383The redress  was limited  to the 2012 investments. The investigator had considered  the 
balance of Mr Ts SIPP under the other  complaint reference and had proposed redress  in the 
view hed issued on that other complaint. 
Mr T accepted the investigators view. CAM didnt. Its adviser said:
Mr T initially approached him to transfer  his personal pension to a SIPP to use the 
fund to purchase shares. The shares  were selected by Mr T, details were set out in 
CAMs letter of 2 March  2020.
Mr T decided to sell the BT shares and instructed the adviser to reinvest  the money 
in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. The adviser  cautioned Mr T at the time against investing  
too much  of his portfolio in one stock. 
He and Mr T met socially  regularly and often discussed his shareholdings so 
effectively his portfolio  was reviewed on a weekly basis. What  Mr T had said about 
never receiving one telephone call from the adviser wasnt  true  theyd met several  
times a week and even holidayed  together. Mr T could have sold his Gulf Keystone  
Petroleum shares at a huge profit but elected  not to when  the adviser discussed that 
with him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.  Ive 
considered it alongside  Mr Ts other complaint. 
I thought there might  be an issue about  if Mr T could have mitigated his position  that is 
taken steps to avoid or reduce his losses. We asked Mr T for some more information about  
that and what  hed thought about how the investments were  performing and the statements 
the SIPP provider  had sent. 
Mr T said he hadnt really understood the statements and had just filed them away.  As far as 
he was aware, his pension was payable  at age 55, hed entrusted everything  to his adviser 
whod oversee and adjust  things as necessary. Mr T found out afterwards  that he shouldve 
had meetings with the adviser but those hadnt  happened. It was only when friends told him 
about their pensions that Mr T started to look into things. He got out all the statements hed 
received, some of which he hadnt even opened,  and saw that his fund value was down to 
some £348.  He approached the adviser  who said Mr T was out of time to complain. Mr T 
then referred the matter  to us.
I considered what Mr T had told us. The investigator emailed Mr T, sharing my thoughts. I 
understood what Mr T had said about  having a financial adviser to look after his pension and 
so Mr T didnt  think he needed to check up on things as he trusted the adviser  and had 
simply filed away the statements from the SIPP provider. But I had to be fair to both parties.  
And I needed to consider if what Mr T had (or hadnt) done was reasonable. Although we 
recognised that consumers go to an adviser  for professional help and assistance, 
consumers do have  some  responsibility in terms of checking how their investments are 
performing. 
It seemed,  if Mr T had looked at the statements  from the SIPP  provider, hed have known by, 
at the latest, say April 2014, there  was a problem. As at 1 May 2012 the overall value of the 
SIPP fund was £76,556. By April and October  2013  that had reduced  to somewhere in the 
region of £47,000. Arguably by then,  had Mr T read the statements  hed have (or ought  to 
have) realised he needed to do something. But by 5 April 2014 the overall  value was 
£24,518 which I thought should have prompted  some concern on Mr Ts part, had he read 
the statements  and which I think he reasonably  ought to have done.  
Ref: DRN24412384I thought it was likely Mr T wouldve done what he did when he did eventually  find out there 
was a problem   gone back to the adviser  and asked him what  was going  on. I couldnt  be 
sure what  the adviser wouldve said  he might have told Mr T to retain the investments as 
the values would recover. But I wasnt sure, given the fall in values, that it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr T to have relied  on that sort of reassurance. I thought  another  adviser 
would have told Mr T to cut his losses and sell the investments. 
Against that background, and on the basis that Mr T could have mitigated or avoided further 
losses arising after April 2014, I thought  it would  be reasonable to calculate his losses as at, 
say, 5 May 2014.  That would have given him a month after hed got the April 2014 statement 
to sell the shares himself  or taken advice about  what to do. The investigator set out revised 
redress. 
We asked Mr T for his any comments. But he didnt reply. 
Wed shared my thoughts with CAM too. CAM did comment further. It said it couldnt  accept  
the redress proposed.  The adviser reiterated  that Mr T had chosen  the investments and hed 
signed letters instructing their purchase. Hed been  advised at review meetings  about how 
the portfolio was performing. The BT shares  hadnt performed as well as the Gulf Keystone  
Petroleum shares,  which had gone  up substantially. Instead of selling the holding that had 
performed best,  Mr T had chosen  to sell his BT shares and buy more  Gulf Keystone  
Petroleum shares.  His risk profile  was off the charts.  
He said he and Mr T met regularly so it wasnt true for Mr T to say he had no idea the shares 
were going  down. He associated  with others  who had similar investments and it was a daily 
topic of conversation. Plus share prices are readily available. Mr Ts complaint was out of 
time. He could have  taken  decent  profits. Instead  hed been greedy and complained after 
the damage had been done.  Mr T knew the risk he was taking and then chose to take even 
more risk.
Later, when  I was considering Mr Ts other complaint, I had some further thoughts  about  
redress. Again the investigator emailed Mr T and CAM  setting those  out. Mr T didnt reply. 
CAMs adviser did and said he was confused. He maintained Mr T had given signed  
instructions to purchase the initial investments. He then telephoned  (from  his holiday) with 
instructions to purchase shares in BT. At a review  meeting CAMs adviser  informed Mr T of 
the portfolios  performance.  Mr T decided to sell the BT shares and buy more  shares in Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum, even though the adviser  warned Mr T about investing  too much  in one 
share. But Mr T had decided thats  what he wanted to do. 
CAM didnt think it should compensate Mr T for decisions hed made. The adviser said he 
and Mr T several times each week to discuss the portfolio. And the redress  needed further 
explanation.   
Im sorry  if CAM (and Mr T) are confused. I hope Ive explained things clearly below and, in 
particular, the changes to the redress as notified  by the investigator.  
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN24412385As Ive set out above, one of my colleagues considered  jurisdiction  whether we can look at 
Mr Ts complaint. But were required to keep  jurisdiction  under review throughout our 
investigation of a complaint until we issue a final decision. Ive done that. And I agree with 
my colleague that the complaint  in so far as it relates to the 2012 investments  was made  
in time. 
Strictly all Im considering here is the advice which Mr T says CAM gave in 2012  to buy the 
investments Ive set out. But, as Ive said, theres some overlap between  the two complaints. 
My decision  here and on Mr Ts other complaint should be read together,  especially as to 
redress.  
As to the merits of this complaint, my views are similar to those  of the investigator. Exactly 
what happened isnt agreed.  It isnt entirely  clear if Mr T was advised by CAM to invest as he 
did. CAM has mentioned  discussions about fund selection. But CAM has also suggested  it 
acted on an execution only or insistent client basis. 
CAM doesnt seem to have proper  records  to back up what it says.  I have to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is what  I consider is more  likely to have 
happened  and taking into account such evidence as is available. 
Here Im only looking at the 2012 investments and not the transfer  to the SIPP or the initial  
investments which  included shares  in Gulf Keystone Petroleum and BT. CAM maintains it 
was Mr Ts own decision  to sell his BT shares and invest  more  money  (almost  another  
£20,000) in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. The adviser says he cautioned Mr T against investing  
too much  of his portfolio in one stock. 
Mr T says he made the 2012 investments on CAMs advice. As the investigator  pointed out, 
Mr T doesnt appear to have had any previous investment experience  or knowledge  and 
certainly not of buying shares in relatively specialist companies. That said,  I recognise a 
decision to buy more  shares in a company  Mr T had already invested in is different to 
deciding to invest in a completely unknown company. And where a profit on the earlier share  
purchase was showing  Mr T may have  been  interested in investing  further.  
But I still dont see that Mr T would have decided to invest more  money  in Gulf Keystone 
Petroleum and/or buy shares in New World Oil & Gas plc without input from someone more 
experienced and knowledgeable such as CAMs adviser. 
Weve also received complaints from others  in the same social circle as Mr T who say they 
invested on CAMs advice  and in the same companies as he did. And the timing was similar 
 for example investments  were made  in Gulf Keystone Petroleum in early  2012 which is 
consistent with Mr Ts further investment in that company. I think it would  be too much of a 
coincidence that others also decided, apparently  on their own and without any discussion or 
steer from CAMs adviser, to buy shares in the same companies  as Mr T. It doesnt  support 
what the adviser says about Mr T having  made his own decision to invest more and that 
CAM acted on an execution only basis. It would  suggest instead  that CAMs adviser was 
advocating the Gulf Keystone Petroleum and the New World Oil & Gas plc investments.  
The adviser also seems to suggest  that Mr Ts additional investment in Gulf Keystone  
Petroleum was made against CAMs advice. But I havent seen anything to show  that Mr T 
was treated as an insistent client and formally  warned that, as CAMs adviser couldnt 
endorse any decision by Mr T to invest further in Gulf Keystone Petroleum, Mr T would be 
Ref: DRN24412386proceeding against CAMs  advice  and it wouldnt be responsible for the consequences of Mr 
Ts decision.  
If CAM did advise Mr T against investing  further, whether because  of a lack of diversification 
or that it was too risky and Mr T had decided to go ahead anyway then CAM should have 
made sure it had a record to show that Mr T was being treated  as an insistent client.  
But, in any event, Mr T doesnt strike me as someone whod have been prepared to rely on 
his own judgment  and proceed anyway and despite  advice to the contrary. He seems  to 
have been an inexperienced investor  and was dependent on professional  advice. If, as 
CAMs adviser suggests, he told Mr T that he shouldnt invest  further,  I cant  see that Mr T 
would have simply ignored that advice. 
CAMs adviser has more recently  described  Mr Ts attitude to risk as off the scale . But even 
if Mr T was apparently prepared to adopt  a very high risk strategy, he didnt have the 
capacity for loss that could result. He didnt have other  assets to rely on in retirement.  Even if 
Mr T was seemingly  comfortable with taking  a high degree of risk CAM shouldnt just have 
accepted that but discussed  with him the risks and whether  he could afford the losses  that 
might result. 
Overall and from what Ive seen I think the 2012  investments were more likely to have been 
made on CAMs advice. I agree with the investigator  that the investments were wholly 
unsuitable for Mr T. So CAM is responsible for the losses Mr T has suffered in consequence  
of investing as he did. 
But thats subject  to what Ive said above about  Mr Ts duty to mitigate. We explained  to Mr T 
my thinking  and gave  him an opportunity to comment. He didnt come back with anything 
which makes me think what I said was wrong.  I have every sympathy for Mr T. I can 
understand why he left things to his adviser.  But I dont think it would be fair, in awarding  
redress, not to take into account that, if hed acted reasonably and looked at the information  
he was sent from the SIPP provider, he could  have prevented some of his losses. 
Its my understanding that the shares  have been  liquid  throughout  and so could have been 
sold at any point. On that basis, the redress Ive awarded follows  that notified to the parties 
and has an end date of 5 May 2014 with that loss to be brought up to the date of settlement 
by reference to the same benchmark.  
Ive also said that the start date for the redress calculation should be 20 January 2012  
which was the date Mr Ts further  investment  in Gulf Keystone  Petroleum was made. And 
the calculation  will be based  on the overall  value of Mr Ts SIPP on that date. Thats different 
to the investigators  proposed redress which (on this complaint) was limited to the Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum and the New World Oil & Gas plc investments. 
The reason  Ive said differently relates  to my findings on Mr Ts other  complaint  that CAM 
failed to review the SIPP. Essentially, CAMs first opportunity  to review Mr Ts SIPP was 
earlier than May 2012. Mr T disinvested  his BT shares in January 2012 and purchased more 
shares in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. Regardless of whether CAM advised Mr T in connection  
with the disinvestment  and share  purchase, CAM knew what Mr T was doing. CAM should  
have told Mr T that the risk profile of his SIPP was too high that the SIPP  lacked 
diversification. 
Ref: DRN24412387That was a missed  opportunity to review Mr Ts SIPP overall and thats why Im saying the 
redress should be based on the overall  value of the SIPP and not just the further Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum and the New World Oil & Gas plc investments. But, as Ive said and for 
the reasons Ive explained, I think the end date for the calculation (aside from a return on the 
loss up to date) should be 5 May 2014.  
Ive set out below what  CAM should do, taking all that into account. Id also point out to Mr T 
and CAM that, although  Ive upheld  Mr Ts other  complaint,  I havent  awarded any redress.  
Thats because the redress Ive awarded below  (which is as notified  to the parties earlier)  
covers both the unsuitable  advice to invest and the failure to review  Mr Ts SIPP. 
 My aim is to put Mr T as close as possible to the position hed probably be in now if hed 
been given suitable advice. I think suitable advice would have been not to make the further 
investment in Gulf Keystone  Petroleum  and not to invest in New World  Oil & Gas plc and to 
switch Mr Ts SIPP investments into a well diversified portfolio of funds with no more than a 
medium risk rating overall. 
what should  CAM  do?
To compensate Mr T fairly CAM should:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest/additional return set out below.
If theres a loss, CAM should  pay into Mr Ts pension  plan,  to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Ts pension plan, CAM should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable  income. So the compensation should be reduced to notionally  
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected marginal rate of tax 
at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  
rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have  been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, CAM should pay Mr T £300 for bringing about unsuitable investments
which caused Mr T to suffer substantial losses.
Details of the calculation should  be supplied to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CAM considers that its required 
by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, CAM  should  tell Mr T how much it 
has taken off. CAM should give Mr T a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)adjustment 
from end date 
to date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN24412388Mr Ts SIPP still 
existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total  
Return 
Index20 
January 2012 5 May 
2014 FTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill accept if you 
total all those payments  and deduct that figure  at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ts circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Capital Asset Management  Ltd must redress Mr T as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2441238