K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car financed by a conditional  sale agreement from 
Close Brothers Limited. He says the faults with the car mean he should be able to cancel the 
finance agreement  and return it, or, be given a refund of the money hes spent on repairs.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint and the settlement Close Brothers should  make to Mr S.
I invited Mr S and Close Brothers to let me have any final comments and evidence before  
making my final decision. Mr S accepted  my provisional decision but Close  Brothers did not. 
In summary,  Close Brothers said:
There was no reason for Mr S to refuse the repairs  offered by the trader because  
they are a registered garage and should have been given a chance to repair the car. 
Mr S didnt  provide  a range  of quotes from different garages before he had the repair 
work done.
The trader could have  repaired the car at a lower cost.
They should not have to pay Mr S for any distress and inconvenience as they tried 
help him.
The conditional sale agreement  cannot  be reworked to reflect the £500 price 
reduction, because  a new agreement will give Mr S new rights and terms.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer Close Brothers  were hoping for  Ive reached the same  overall  conclusions  as I 
did in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
the repairs offered  by the trader and potential  cost saving
Mr S had concerns  about the key part of the engine  and wanted a specialist in the cars 
make, to do the work.  Ive found that Mr S was told the car had always been serviced by a 
franchised garage before he got it. Also, I agreed  with Mr S that this created a great deal of 
mistrust between him and the trader. Given these circumstances, I think  it was reasonable 
for Mr S to want  the other work identified in the report, to be carried out by a specialist in the 
cars make. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr S to go ahead with the repairs  and the 
service, using a franchised garage.
I accept that the trader may have been able to arrange for the repairs  at a lower cost.  But, 
from looking at the information provided  by Close Brothers and Mr S, Im not persuaded the 
trader gave Mr S confidence that any repair  would  have  been offered. There was also a 
significant inconvenience to either Mr S or the trader in getting  the car back  to the traders  
sales garage.
Ref: DRN22093642the absence of a range  of quotes
The receipts Mr S has provided show us that he took the car to be repaired  two weeks after 
he collected it from the dealer. The repair was needed to a key part of the engine, that 
wasnt connected properly. Im persuaded that this would have caused Mr S to want to repair 
the car as soon  as he could, to make  it safe to drive. I think asking  Mr S to get three quotes 
and then for him to wait for Close Brothers  and the trader to decide if they would honour a 
repair, would  have  caused delay and cost.  
In all the circumstances of Mr S case, I dont think it would have been fair for him to have to 
provide three separate quotes for the work.
the distress and inconvenience  payment
I can see that Close Brothers responded to Mr S when he raised  his concerns with them. So, 
I think they did try and help with the circumstances of his case. But, I think Mr S was caused 
distress and inconvenience when he discovered a key part of his cars engine  was not 
connected properly  and he had to arrange  for it to be repaired.
Mr S was without the use of his car whilst  the initial repairs and the service by the franchised 
garage were carried out and Im persuaded this was inconvenient for him. I also think he was 
caused distress when he found  out about  the key part engine and was extremely worried 
about the safety of a car hed very recently  bought. In all the circumstances, I think Close  
Brothers should pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
the £500 price  reduction of the car
Close Brothers have said that they cannot  rework Mr S conditional sale agreement to reflect 
a price reduction, because the agreement  will have to start again. Close Brothers  say they 
will have to offer Mr S new terms and consumer  rights.
Im still persuaded  that the car wasnt as advertised  because it wasnt always  serviced by a 
franchised garage and because  it had been owned by more than one person. After 
considering a third party valuation  service,  I think the true circumstances of the car would  
have had an impact on its sale price. So, I think Close Brothers  need  to make a reduction in 
the purchase price  to reflect  this.
I have spoken  to Close Brothers  and asked them for an alternative solution to reworking the 
conditional sale agreement. Close Brothers didnt offer a solution, so I couldnt consider any 
alternative they may have wanted  to put forward. 
In all the circumstances, I think Close Brothers should simply pay £500 towards Mr S 
conditional sale agreement to reduce the current outstanding balance. I dont think it would 
be fair for Mr S to pay any interest associated  with the reduction  in price. So, I also think  
Close Brothers should refund the interest charged under the conditional sale agreement, on 
the amount of £500, from 11 November 2017 (the start of the agreement) to the date the 
settlement is made.
Ref: DRN22093643my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my 
final decision  is that Close Brothers Limited should:
-reimburse Mr S £1,609 for some  of the repairs he paid for himself and pay interest  at 
an annual rate of 8% simple from the date Mr S paid for repairs  to the date of 
settlement;
-Pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused; and
-Pay £500 to Mr S account for his conditional  sale agreement, to reflect a lower 
purchase price of the car and refund  the interest charged under  the conditional sale 
agreement on this amount  from the start of the agreement until the date of 
settlement.
Close Brothers must pay these amounts within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell them 
Mr S accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Close Brothers Limited deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr S as above, they 
should provide  Mr S with a tax deduction certificate,  so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22093644copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car financed by a conditional sale agreement  from Close  
Brothers Limited. He says the faults with the car mean he should  be able to cancel the finance 
agreement and return  it, or, be given a refund of the money hes spent on repairs.
background
In November 2017,  Mr S went to collect a car from a used car trader. The trader had 
previously introduced  Mr S to Close Bothers to arrange  the finance for the purchase. Mr S 
signed a conditional  sale agreement  with Close Brothers and drove the car home. 
The car was advertised as having a FLSH and having had one previous owner. Mr S 
understood that FLSH meant the car had only ever been  serviced by the manufacturers 
franchised garages. This is different from FSH, which usually  means full service history  in 
the used car industry.  
When Mr S arrived  home with the car, he realised that it had been owned  by more  than one 
person and the trader hadnt had it serviced  by a franchised  garage. He also noticed that a 
warning light had appeared. This,  it seems, was because a key part of the engine hadnt been 
connected properly.
Mr S raised his concerns with the trader and asked them to fix any problems  that hed 
noticed. He asked the trader to make repairs under the three  month warranty he was given. 
Mr S became frustrated with the trader because he wasnt given  assurances the car would be 
fixed and he didnt like how he was treated while  dealing  with them.
Mr S took the car to a franchised  garage and paid for a full service. He also arranged  for the 
key part of the engine to be connected. Over the next month,  Mr S paid for other repairs  to be 
made to the car. When he was satisfied with the repairs, Mr S asked Close Brothers to refund 
the costs hed incurred. He also told them about some other problems he wanted  to be put 
right because he wanted  to keep the car.
Close Brothers declined to pay for the repairs  because they didnt have a chance to inspect 
the car beforehand. Close Brothers organised  for an independent inspection in January 2018, 
to try and find out if the remaining faults were present when Mr S got the car.
The independent report  found  several faults and Close Brothers said they would  arrange for 
the trader  to fix them. Mr S chose  not to take his car to the traders garage and instead 
arranged for the other problems to be repaired  at garages accredited by the manufacturer.
Mr S complained  to Close Brothers and said he should  be compensated for the cost of the 
repairs. In their final response Close Brothers disagreed and said Mr S should  have  either  
given them three quotes for the work needed before taking action or allowed  the trader  to put 
them right. Close  Brothers also said Mr S was able to reject  the car because  the way the car 
was advertised  was inaccurate.  But, Mr S made it clear to them  that he wanted to keep it.
Because Mr S wasnt satisfied with Close brothers  response,  he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator found that Mr S should be allowed to reject the car and get his £500 deposit 
back. He also said that Mr S should get some  of the costs  hed spent on the repairs  refunded.
Both Mr S and Close Brothers  disagreed  with the investigator.  Mr S said he should be 
refunded for more of the repairs  hes arranged  for the car. Close  Brothers said it is clear  Mr S 
wanted to keep  the car and that hed driven  it for around 11,000 miles which may have 
Ref: DRN22093645affected its condition. Close Brothers also said that Mr S repaired the car without giving  the 
trader a chance to look at it first.
Because both Mr S and Close  Brothers disagreed  with the investigators findings, the case  was 
passed to me to make  final decision. 
Things have  moved  on since Mr S first bought his complaint to our service in that hes organised for 
further substantial repairs to the car. Mr S says that if he were to hand the car back to Close Brothers 
now, it would be worth  a lot more  than when  he got it.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In doing so, Im intending to reach  a slightly different outcome to the investigator. I think Close  
Brothers should pay Mr S more than the investigator recommended and I dont think he should be 
able to reject  the car. Ill explain  why.
Close Brothers responsibilities  to Mr S.
Mr S was given his car under a conditional sale agreement,  which is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement. Our service is able to consider complaints  relating to it. Close Brothers is the supplier  of 
the goods  under this type of agreement and are responsible for dealing with complaints  about their 
quality.
Part of Mr S complaint is that some  of the things the trader said about  the car in the advert wasnt 
true. The contract Mr S signed, says the trader acted as a credit intermediary  for Close Brothers. This 
means the trader is a credit broker. Under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  a credit 
broker acts as an agent  of a finance  provider. So, Close Brothers are responsible for what  was said to 
Mr S about the car before  he signed  the conditional  sale agreement.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  has an implied  term which  explains goods do not conform  to a 
contract if they arent as described at the point of supply.  In Mr Ss case, he says the car turned out 
not to be as described in the advertisement  when  he picked it up. So, I have to consider if there has 
been a breach of the implied term, by looking at the way the trader  advertised the car. 
how the car was advertised
Mr S has provided  a link to the traders website  which shows the advert used to sell the car. I can see 
that the car was advertised as having only 1 former keeper + FLSH.  Close Brothers have accepted 
that the car had more  than one former keeper and this means the way the car was advertised was 
incorrect. 
I agree with Mr S that FSH is a common acronym for advertising a car as having a full service  history.  
Indeed, many  of the other cars advertised on the traders website are described  in this way. Theres 
no other mention  of FSH in the advert for Mr Ss car, so I dont think  the reader would think that there 
had been a typing error. Given the actual  make  of the car, I think the advert was misleading  and its 
reasonable for Mr S to have  assumed FLSH  meant that the car had always  been serviced by a 
franchised garage of the manufacturer. 
However, I have considered  if Mr S would have gone ahead  with the purchase if hed have known the 
truth about the service history and the number of former keepers. Mr S says he felt pressured on the 
day to buy the car and the atmosphere caused by the trader wasnt friendly.
But, Mr S drove  the car over 7,500 miles within the first three  months of getting  it. And he found out 
the car had two former keepers soon after he returned home from the trader. He was also prepared to 
Ref: DRN22093646pay for and arrange repairs to bring  the car up to a standard  he was happy with. Mr S has made  very 
positive comments about the car within  the owners notes section of the paperwork he sent to us. 
Also, Mr S says that the car was one of two cars at the traders garage that matched his exact 
requirements and it was his intention to buy the best one. So, I think Mr S was always likely  to buy a 
car from the trader.
I agree the car wasnt  as advertised and I accept there may have been some expectation from the 
trader that Mr S would go through with the sale. But, for the reasons  Ive considered, I think Mr S 
would have gone ahead with the purchase anyway.  So, I dont think  the way the trader described  the 
car induced  Mr S to enter into the finance agreement and buy the car.
the quality of the car
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality  where they meet  the standard that 
a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory,  taking into consideration the description of the 
goods, the price paid and any other relevant circumstances.  In complaints about  the quality  of a car, 
circumstances around the age of the car, mileage at the time of the sale and the cars history needs to 
be taken into account.
In this case, Mr S bought a used car that had covered  around 80,000 miles since  it was first 
registered in 2007. So, I think a reasonable person would have  different expectations  of it compared  
to a brand new car. But, I think  given  the purchase price of £13,495 and the advertised condition of 
the car, it means that a reasonable person wouldnt expect to have any major problems so soon after 
it was purchased. 
Mr S says that the trader agreed  to carry out a full service  before the sale was completed. There  is no 
written agreement between Mr S and the trader to say a full service would be carried out. But, I can 
see from the service  history  records that the car was due another 10,000 mile service  at the point sale 
and it was sold as having a full service history.  So, Im persuaded that its likely the trader  offered to 
service the car as part of the sale to Mr S.
When Mr S collected the car from the trader, he noticed  two warning  lights were showing on the 
dashboard. The warning  lights persisted, so within  two weeks of getting the car, Mr S approached a 
franchised garage to investigate. I dont think this was unreasonable given the long distance Mr S 
lives from the trader and that hed want to correct a potential safety issue as soon as he could.
Also, Im persuaded  that Mr S didnt find out that the car hadnt always been serviced by a franchised 
garage until after hed arranged  for one himself. The car was serviced in January  2016 and the 
garages stamp  looks  very similar to that of a franchised garage. At first glance  of the service book, I 
think Mr S was given the impression that the car had always been taken to a franchised garage. So, I 
think it was reasonable for him to have taken the car to a franchised  garage for the 80,000 mile 
service which  should have been done by the trader.
The garage  discovered that a key part of the engine wasnt connected properly. So, as part of a 
general service, the franchised garage fixed the problem.  I also agree  that Mr S could have expected 
that the parts  of the cars engine to be connected properly. So, I dont think  Mr S acted  in haste  by 
taking the car to a franchised  garage to get it repaired. And because the trader hadnt completed a 
service, I find it reasonable that he wanted  a franchised garage to service  the car.
Within a month of collecting  the car, Mr S complained  to Close Brothers about  its general condition 
and the treatment  he says he received from the trader. Mr S also noticed several other concerns, 
apart from the engine problem. Close  Brothers agreed for an inspection of the car to take place in 
January 2018, to see if the faults were  there when  Mr S purchased it. The inspection  was carried out 
by a separate company and they concluded that: 
-Mr S made his own repairs to the reversing  camera;
-the heated seats function didnt  work;
Ref: DRN22093647-the rear wash wiper valve had failed;
-the nearside door mirror no longer automatically dimmed light because the incorrect glass 
had been installed; and
-the repairs should  be considered the responsibility  of the trader.
Close Brothers agreed that some repairs needed to be made. But, Im not persuaded  that all of the 
issues Mr S has claimed  for are faults that were  present at the point of supply that mean  the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality.  Ill address that in more  detail below.
Mr S didnt want to take the car back to the trader and made arrangements to have  the various 
problems fixed more locally to him. Mr S said he had lost trust in the trader to make  the repairs 
because of the problems when he first took the car home, how he was treated by the trader  and 
because he wasnt told about the faults before  he bought it.
I dont think its unreasonable for Mr S to have felt this way. I agree  that the car wasnt as advertised 
and the problems Mr S discovered when he took the car to the franchised garage caused him to be 
wary of the trader. Also, the trader is based some distance from Mr Ss home and he needed the car 
to get to and from his place of work. 
So, I think it was reasonable  for Mr S to arrange for some  of the repairs highlighted in the report  to be 
done. And because of the service history of the car, I think  it was reasonable  for him to seek  the 
reassurance he would get from a franchised garage for the repairs.
During Close  Brothers investigation, Mr S sent them  a list of the repairs he made  before  and after the 
inspection report was done. Some of the repairs  Mr S carried out relate to the problems covered in 
inspection organised by Close Brothers, but not all. Ive considered every receipt  and invoice Mr S 
has provided. But I think  the repairs  listed  below were made to put right the problems  with car covered 
in the report and to bring it up to a satisfactory quality, considering its age, mileage, condition  and 
purchase price. In summary, Mr S paid for the following:
Item/Work carried out Cost Date
Replacement camera  battery £22 22/11/17
Manufacturers full service £599 24/11/17
Diagnostics for heated seats not working £42  08/12/17
Replacement remote for auxiliary heater £59 06/01/18
Replacement windscreen £75 26/01/18
Replacement registration plate light bulb £2 Unknown
Replacement rear wash wiper valve £8 21/02/18
Replacement rear wash wiper seal £1 21/02/18
Repair to DVD player remote £25 08/03/18
Repair to heating system for the front seats £946 16/03/18
Total £1,779
Ive considered the traders advert for the car and what information Mr S was given before  he got it, to 
decide if he was made aware that some  of the features of the car needed to be repaired. I think a 
reasonable person would expect to be told if key features  of a car needed to be repaired before a 
sale. 
In this case the traders advert  does  not suggest that some aspects of the car need to be repaired,  
such as the heated seats or the camera used when reversing. I think  a reasonable  person would 
expect these  features to still be working on this car, given the mileage, service history and its age. So, 
I think  it was reasonable for Mr S to arrange for them to be repaired.
Mr S arranged for the repairs himself, despite Close Brothers asking  him to take the car back  to the 
trader for repair. Ive concluded that I accept Mr Ss reasons for not wanting  to take the car back  to 
the trader. Close Brothers also asked Mr S to get repair quotes from three different garages, with the 
intention of choosing the best one. Ive considered Mr Ss actions here and I dont think  he acted 
Ref: DRN22093648unreasonably. Close brothers gave Mr S no assurance that the repairs would  be paid for, only that 
there was a hope that the trader would provide a refund. As Mr S wasnt given assurances,  I think  it 
was reasonable for him to go ahead and organise the repairs  at a garage local to him. But, I dont 
think Close Brothers  should  pay for everything Mr S has provided receipts for.
Within Mr S own list of receipts and invoices there are items which  werent identified in the inspectors 
recommendation. Ive considered that Mr S drove the car for over 3,500 miles in under  two months 
before he needed to replace  the auxiliary heater remote, the rear number  plate bulb, the windscreen,  
the DVD player remote and repair  the rear wiper valve and seal.  I can also see that there was a 
general service to the gearbox when he paid for an inspection and of the heated front seats.
Mr S has been very diligent with his record  keeping  and this has been helpful  in deciding his case. So, 
considering all the information available, I dont think these  remaining five items were faulty when he 
got the car. And because of the age and circumstances  of the car, I think  a reasonable  person could 
have expected  to have organised a service  to the gearbox. So, I dont  think  Close Brothers need to 
refund Mr S for these repair and gearbox  service costs.
After taking into consideration the repairs Mr S has made to the car, I think its reasonable for the cost 
of the manufacturers service, diagnostics  and repair to the heated front seats and the camera battery  
to be refunded to Mr S. This total comes  to £1,609 and I think Close Brothers should pay this amount 
to Mr S along with a simple interest. 
the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr S.
Mr S has told of his wish to keep the car. Given the money hes spent  on the car to bring it to a 
standard hes happy with and the use hes had, I dont think he should be able to reject it now. In the 
first year of having the car, MOT records show that Mr S drove it over 15,000 miles.  Mr S has 
explained that he needs this type of car given his employment  and that he expected to drive it 
frequently.
Ive concluded that Mr S needed to have  the car repaired when he got it and that it was reasonable  for 
him to take it for a service at a franchised garage. Im also persuaded  that it would have been 
alarming for Mr S to discover that some of the parts of the engine  were  not connected  properly. So, I 
think Mr S experienced distress and inconvenience.  In these circumstances, I think  its fair that Close  
brothers make a payment to Mr S. So, I think  Close  Brothers  should pay Mr S £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience he experienced.
the purchase price  of the car
I have also considered my finding  that the car wasnt as advertised.  I have used a third party valuation 
service to check the price  of Mr Ss car, taking into consideration the specification and condition. 
Having done so, I think the truth that the car had more  than one owner  and that it didnt have a full 
service history from a franchised garage affected the value at the point of sale. So, I think Close 
Brothers should rework Mr S conditional  sale agreement to make a reduction of £500 in the purchase 
price to reflect  the lower value of the car when he got it.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr S 
or Close Brothers by 20 September 2019, my provisional decision is that Close Brothers Limited 
should:
-reimburse Mr S £1,609 for some  of the repairs hes paid for himself and pay interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date Mr S paid for repairs to the date of settlement;
-Pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience  hes been caused; and
Ref: DRN22093649-Rework Mr S conditional sale agreement to reduce  the purchase price by £500 to reflect a 
lower purchase price of the car.
Close Brothers must pay these amounts  within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation  from the date 
of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Close Brothers Limited deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mr S as above, it should  provide 
Mr S with a tax deduction certificate, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2209364