K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unreasonably  refused to pay 
her claim for the theft of her caravan under  her caravan policy.
References to RSA include all its agents.
background
In June 2018, Mrs H bought a new caravan and insured it with RSA. Sadly, later that month 
it was stolen from a secured park where  Mrs H stored this caravan  and indeed  had stored  
her previous  caravan. 
When Mrs H bought  this policy,  she said she had a hitch lock for this caravan. But following 
RSAs investigation  into the theft it found  out the hitch  lock Mrs H had, didnt fit this caravan  
and she hadnt  had the chance to get one before her caravan was stolen.
On the basis, there was no hitch lock fitted to this caravan, RSA refused to deal with the 
claim and cancelled her policy, as if it had never existed and refunded  the premium  she had 
paid.
Mrs H didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  
RSA had done anything wrong.  Mrs H didnt  agree 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
I do understand how much of a disappointment this will be to Mrs H. I also dont consider 
that she set out to mislead RSA in any way, as its clear she had a hitch lock when she 
bought this policy. But it didnt fit this caravan (which  she wasnt  aware  at the time she 
bought the caravan and bought her policy)  and she simply hadnt had the chance to have  
her husband  try and make  this hitch lock fit or indeed buy one that did fit it. 
However, the policy is clear that a failure to comply with the security requirements may 
invalidate the policy and any theft related claim. Theres  no dispute there was no hitch lock 
fitted to this caravan at the time of the theft.  And its clear from RSAs investigation that the 
hitch wasnt then taken  off and stowed elsewhere, which the policy also permits.  Had either 
of things been done, the policy would have no doubt  responded to Mrs Hs claim. 
The requirement of a hitch lock for caravan policies isnt unusual and most caravan  policies  
require them to be fitted to the caravan in addition to other security requirements.  In legal 
parlance its called a condition precedent which means had Mrs H known her hitch lock 
wasnt going to fit her new caravan and had said that to RSA when buying the policy,  it 
wouldnt have offered her any cover. The fact that Mrs H thought  she had a hitch  lock which  
would fit this new caravan  and confirmed she had one when she bought the policy  then 
enabled RSA to offer her the cover.  
Therefore sadly for Mrs H it doesnt  matter that even if she had removed the hitch  as the 
policy required her to do in the absence of a hitch lock, that she believes her caravan would 
Ref: DRN21771692have still have been stolen. RSA is entitled  to detail what security  it required on the caravans 
it wanted to insure  and in the absence  of those security requirements  been taken by its 
policyholder, its entitled  to refuse  to cover  the theft claim.
I do think RSA was less than clear when  it initially  refused to deal with Mrs Hs claim but its 
further investigations did clarify the situation better. My role and the role of this service is 
assess whether RSA did anything wrong  in refusing to deal and pay Mrs Hs claim.  Given  
the policy wording  and the security  requirements  necessary,  I dont consider RSA did 
anything wrong  in refusing to pay Mrs Hs claim.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2177169