K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined their claim under 
their NEOS Smarter Home Insurance policy for damage caused by a leaking roof and 
related accidental damage.
background
Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes in mid November 2018 to ask whether damage caused 
by a leaking roof would be covered under their insurance policy. Theyd already had the leak 
fixed but called to inquire if they could make a claim.  Great  Lakes said the policy  wouldnt 
cover the damage  because it seemed  it was caused  by wear and tear and the claim was 
brought too late. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with this so they complained. Great  Lakes rejected their 
complaint so they came to this service. Our investigator didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld because he thought it was reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim for wear  
and tear and as it was brought out of time.  So Mr and Mrs S asked for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes some  time after their roof leaked  when  theyd already 
fixed the roof externally. During  the call, they told Great Lakes  it looked  as if the leak was 
caused by general  wear  and tear. The general  exclusions  of the insurance policy  include the 
following statement:
We will not pay for: Any loss or damage  cause by wear and tear or any other gradual 
operating cause.
Insurance policies  dont  cover all types  of damage and this type of exclusion is common. It 
was clear from the policy that this type of damage  wasnt covered. So I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim  for the roof on this basis.
Mr and Mrs S also raised a question about  accidental damage once they realised that the 
damage caused by wear  and tear wouldnt be covered. They originally told Great Lakes the 
internal ceiling damage was caused by a leak. The accidental damage sections of the policy 
state that it doesnt cover: water  entering the home  regardless  of how this happened; After 
the first call, Mr S said the internal damage  to the ceiling was caused by him putting  a foot 
through the ceiling when fixing the roof. Having  considered the pictures provided and 
listened to the first call, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to decline this claim on the 
basis that it considered  the damage was most  likely caused by water entering  the home.
In addition, Mr and Mrs S brought their claim too late. They told Great Lakes theyd 
discovered the leak in September  although they later told our investigator they first noticed 
the problem on 7 October. Whichever the correct date was, they first contacted Great  Lakes 
more than 30 days after they realised there was a problem with the roof and the ceiling. The 
insurance policy states that: 
You must notify our claims department  of all incidents that may give rise to a claim as 
soon as practicable. This must be no later than 30 days from the date of the incident. 
Ref: DRN28196422Great Lakes had a standard clause in the policy saying  it needed  to be advised of claims 
within 30 days. This didnt  happen  and Great Lakes said this was another reason why the 
claim wouldnt be dealt with. The policy does make  this clear  so I think  Great  Lakes acted 
reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim. 
I realise that this will be a disappointment  for Mr and Mrs S but I hope that Ive explained my 
reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2819642