K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that the Post Office Ltd wont refund a £20 postal order  which  they say has 
expired. Alongside this Mr G complains that the details of the discretionary time limits used 
when deciding whether or not to pay an expired  postal order are not published. 
background 
On 13 May 2016 Mr G obtained  a postal order for £20 from the Post Office. Mr G mislaid the 
postal order until August 2018  when  he asked the Post Office if they would reissue or 
revalidate it so he could use it to make  a payment.
The Post Office said that postal orders need  to be cashed  within  six months of the date of 
issue or they expire. They went on to explain they would refund a postal order, using their 
discretion, up to another six months after that. But because two years had passed since  the 
postal order was issued,  it had expired, and no refund was given to Mr G.
Mr G was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. During our investigation the Post Office  offered to 
refund the £20 to Mr G. Our investigator asked Mr G if he would like to accept the offer. Mr G 
declined saying he was looking  for financial compensation for the time and effort he spent on 
the problem, as well as an apology and explanation from the Post Office. Mr G also felt it 
was unfair  that the Post Office didnt publish the discretionary time limits in their terms and 
conditions. 
Having considered what Mr G said, our investigator  felt the offer from the Post Office was 
fair and reasonable. His opinion was also that the Post Office  wasnt  required to publish their 
discretionary time limits. Mr G remained unhappy  so the complaint has come  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
I want to assure Mr G that I have read everything  hes submitted. If I havent  mentioned  
something, or answered  a particular question raised  by Mr G, its not because Ive ignored it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  point to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service. However, 
Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision.
Ive focussed  on what I think is the key issue  here: whether or not the Post Office acted in a 
fair and reasonable way when refusing to reissue  or revalidate Mr Gs postal  order.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied the Post Office did act in a fair and reasonable 
way when applying  the terms and conditions  of the postal order.  Postal orders expire after 
six months. After that the Post Office might  use their discretion to issue  a refund, but it is 
exactly that; discretion.  What happened here is that the postal order  was over two years old 
before Mr G contacted the Post Office and they refused a refund. 
Ref: DRN24761142Mr G raises wider  issues around the Post Office  not publishing details of how they apply 
their discretion when  deciding whether  or not to refund expired postal orders. I dont think 
that whether or not these discretionary time limits  are published makes any difference  to the 
particular circumstances,  and outcome,  of Mr Gs complaint. So while I can see Mr Gs 
frustration with this, it isnt something I think I need to decide  upon.
Even if I was to think differently about  this, the Post Office has now offered to refund the £20 
so Mr G has not suffered  a financial loss. 
Mr G is looking  for compensation due to the time and effort  he went to pursing his complaint. 
Because Im satisfied  the Post Office acted  fairly  and reasonably  I dont think  the 
compensation Mr G is asking for is due. Thats not to say Mr G hasnt gone to some trouble 
in pursing his complaint, he clearly has. But Im satisfied the offer made by the Post office to 
refund the £20 is fair and reasonable under the circumstances, and I wont be asking them to 
do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that the Post Office  Ltd has made a reasonable offer to resolve this 
complaint. Its now for Mr G to decide whether or not to accept the £20 that has been 
offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476114