K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs F say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Briefly:
Mr and Mrs F took out PPI  in Mr Fs name only  in 1991 during a branch meeting to take 
out a mortgage.  The policy was a regular monthly premium policy costing around £25 a 
month. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint. 
Ive decided Mr and Mrs F havent lost out as a result of taking  out PPI to the extent  they 
should get back everything they paid for PPI because:
I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and that they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  now 
remember this. It was after all many years  ago.
And because it was so long ago Ive not seen enough evidence  to support what  Mr and 
Mrs F say that they were told they had to have PPI to get the mortgage. So I cant  uphold  
the complaint  on this basis.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F  Ive not seen enough to 
persuade me otherwise. So it didnt have  to check if it was right for them.  But it did have  
to make sure Mr and Mrs F got the information  they needed to decide if it was right for 
them.
 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But as I said above I think,  on balance, they chose to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr F was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful  for them  both if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
I can see that Mr and Mrs F originally told us that Mr F had the benefit of 12 months full 
sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay if he was off work sick. 
Ref: DRN29726402But Bradford  & Bingley has shown us a letter from Mr Fs employer from 1996 (in relation 
to a subsequent request for additional borrowing) which  records that he wouldve 
received a minimum of 60 working days worth of sick pay after which the situation would 
be reviewed. 
Mr and Mrs F say this was a standard sickness term and that Mr F mightve been entitled  
to more sick pay. But as I havent seen enough  to support that I cannot  say that Mr F 
wouldve necessarily been entitled  to more  than 60 working days worth of sick pay. In 
any event the policy wouldve  paid out alongside any sick pay leaving this to help with 
ongoing household and other financial commitments, so I think it wouldve played a 
useful part in helping  Mr and Mrs F protect their home if anything went  wrong.
this means Bradford  & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs F.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because : 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because  it didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs F the extra  they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple interest on each payment 
(15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. [consumer] can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs F have not lost out to the extent that Bradford & Bingley Plc 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I make no other  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.  
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2972640