K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NVs decision to decline his 
claim.
backgroundThe background of this decision  is set out as part of my provisional  decision. Ive attached a 
copy to the bottom  of this final decision. Ill summarise the key points below.
Mr B had travel insurance with CIGNA.  After  booking  his holiday in January 2017,  his mother  
became unwell. Some time after this, in October  2017, the airline  carrier hed booked  his 
flights with went bust and so he had to rebook them  with another airline.  Sadly, Mr Bs 
mother passed away a few days before he was due to go on holiday and so he decided not 
to go. He claimed for the costs of the plane tickets  through his insurer but this was declined. 
CIGNA used  the date hed rebooked his flights as the date the trip was initially  booked and 
so found Mr B was already aware  his mother was unwell and receiving treatment  at that 
time. It relied on its policy terms to decline the claim. Our investigator  thought  CIGNA had 
done so fairly, but I didnt agree. 
I felt CIGNA had applied  its terms unfairly,  mainly because at the time Mr B originally booked  
the trip in January 2017, he did not know his mother was unwell. I thought it unfair  for CIGNA 
to use the date he rebooked the flights as the original booking date because  he had no other 
choice but to do this due to the failure  of the aircraft carrier. All other details of the holiday 
remained the same, including the hotel and the transfers at the airports. I also noted Mr B 
had received refunds from the hotel  and the transfer firms and that it was simply the flight 
costs that remained  outstanding. 
I recommended that CIGNA pay his claim in line with the policy terms and pay £150  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused. Both CIGNA and Mr B have  agreed  with my 
provisional findings and so its for me to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both CIGNA  and Mr B have agreed with my provisional decision,  this will now form the 
basis of my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and CIGNA  Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV  must now;
Pay Mr Bs claim in line with its policy terms and;
Pay Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ref: DRN26883072Scott Slade
Ombudsman
[copy of provisional  decision]
Ive considered the relevant  information about Mr Bs complaint. Based on what  Ive
seen so far Im thinking  of upholding this complaint.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 28 March  2019.  But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision  is likely  to be along the following lines. Final
decisions will be published on our website. So that Mr B cant be identified,  Ill call him
Mr B.
complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NVs decision  to decline his
claim.
Ref: DRN26883073background
Mr B bought travel insurance  with CIGNA at the same time he booked his trip to Spain in
January 2017. The holiday  was intended for him and his wife in March 2018.  He booked the
flights, the hotel and the taxi transfers  at the same  time. Mr B was due to fly with an airline
that unfortunately went bust in October 2017.
He said that hed rebooked  the flights with another airline so as to keep the holiday alive. But
sadly, a few days before they were due to fly, his mother passed away.  Mr B submitted his
claim to CIGNA but it was declined. Mr B said he managed to recover all other costs directly
from the hotel and transfer  companies, but the cost of the flights are still outstanding and
hed like CIGNA to reimburse him.
CIGNA said it declined Mr Bs claim  because he was aware his mother  was unwell and
receiving treatment for bowel cancer at the time he booked his flights. It said because of this,
its entitled to decline  his claim under  the terms of the policy.
Our investigator agreed with CIGNA. She thought the policy wording was clear  and that Mr B
was aware of his mothers condition at the time  essentially saying that CIGNA  had
declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr B didnt agree.  He said, in summary, that his mothers health had improved  from June
2017 and that he had no reason to think  any different  when he rebooked  the flights  in
October. And so its for me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I think this is a case that
should be upheld  and that CIGNA should reimburse  Mr B the cost of his flights. Ill explain
why.
CIGNA, like all insurers, is subject to rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. These
rules are better known  as the Insurance Code of Business  Sourcebook or ICOBs. These
rules say that all insurers must handle  claims  promptly and fairly and not decline a claim
unreasonably. The reason Ive drawn attention to this is because I think  CIGNA has unfairly
declined Mr Bs claim.
The term CIGNA has relied on to decline Mr Bs claim is;
Cancellation
What is not covered
4. Any claim  if, at the time your policy starts or booking a trip, whichever was the later, any
person on whom the trip depends, including  the person with whom  you are travelling  or have
arranged to travel, a person  with whom you have arranged to reside temporarily, a close
relative, friend or close business associate, had a medical  condition for which  he or she:
 was receiving treatment at hospital (other than where  they go to hospital for check ups
for a stable condition, at regular  intervals  which have  been arranged beforehand);
 was waiting  for a hospital consultation, investigations or treatment  (other than where
they go to hospital for check-ups for a stable condition, at regular intervals which
have been arranged beforehand);
 had been given a terminal prognosis, or been told that their condition was likely to get
worse in the next 12 months
CIGNA is essentially saying that because Mr B knew  his mother was unwell when he
rebooked his flights,  and that this was the cause of her death which led to the cancellation  of
the trip, then its able to decline his claim  on that basis owing to the above term.  But I dont
agree. I think  CIGNA has unfairly  applied this term because  its done so from the date Mr B
rebooked his flights.  I accept he did this in the knowledge that his mother  was unwell. I note
Mr B has challenged  this point and explained his mother was in remission from June, but
Ref: DRN26883074without any medical evidence to support this, Im unable  to substantiate his argument.
In any event, I think its unfair  to apply  the term from the date the flights were rebooked  when
in fact Mr B booked the trip some ten months earlier in January. And so although  he needed
to rebook his flights in October, this was owing  to the collapse  of the aircraft carrier hed
booked his flights with. All other  components of his trip remained the same, including  the
hotel he intended to stay at and the dates he intended to travel. So Im therefore satisfied
that his trip was booked in January and not October,  like CIGNA has suggested.
In January, when the trip was booked, Mr B was unaware his mother  was unwell. And thats
because she didnt receive a diagnosis until a few months later in March  which CIGNA
appear to accept. Its for these reasons  I believe  this is a claim that CIGNA should  now look
to accept and pay for in line with its policy  terms.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  on upholding Mr Bs complaint for the reasons Ive explained. In which case  Ill
be instructing CIGNA to;
pay his claim,  in line with its policy terms. CIGNA  will also need to deduct any
applicable excess. Ill also be recommending that CIGNA;
pay Mr B £150 compensation  for the trouble  and upset  caused.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2688307