K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a van he financed through an agreement with Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
(Moneybarn) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr W took receipt of a used van in October 2018. He financed the deal through a conditional 
sale agreement with MoneyBarn. At the point of supply the van had already completed 
92,825 miles and was about six years old.
Mr W had problems with the van. He complained to MoneyBarn the following month saying 
there was a:
chipped windscreen  and worn wipers;
judder in first gear;
dents in the loading door and paint damage on the roof;
no spare wheel, jack, spanner  or brace;
violent vibrations from the wheels;
issues with the brakes;
the number  plate light didnt work;
tyres  were not the correct size, were worn and cracked;
there were diesel fumes in the cab.
MoneyBarn commissioned  an independent  inspection. The inspector  noted several  faults 
with the van. He said the windscreen  was cracked; all the brake  discs  were badly worn and 
not operating  effectively;  there were  several fault codes  relating to cylinder and glow plug 
circuit faults;  the van was in limp mode; the engine  management  light was illuminated  and 
there was damage  to the door and roof.
He said:
on the balance of probabilities, the brakes, wheels and front screen may have been 
developing  at finance inception but he did note that Mr W had completed  about 5,500 
miles in the van since hed taken receipt  of it and suggested further  supportive  evidence may 
be required.
Our adjudicator thought that some issues, such as the windscreen crack and door dent,  may 
be fairly attributed to wear  and tear as the van had completed significant mileage when Mr W 
took receipt of it. But he thought there was evidence that the brakes were failing as he noted  
the MOT had identified  they were  in a poor condition in June 2018, only a little under 600 
miles before Mr W took possession of the van. He was also persuaded that the tyres were 
the wrong size when  Mr W agreed the finance. He said that because he noted the 
photograph Mr W provided of his blown tyre showed it to be a 235 and hed referred to that 
in his original  complaint  when he had told MoneyBarn the size was wrong. He contacted the 
manufacturers technical team and they confirmed that the correct size should have been 
195s.
So the adjudicator thought there was evidence this van was not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied and that MoneyBarn  should  therefore allow Mr W to reject it; refund his deposit with 
interest; and pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused.
Ref: DRN22600582MoneyBarn didnt  agree  with the adjudicators opinion. They said the van had actually  
completed about 950 miles  when  Mr W reported  the brake problem to them and they 
suggested the fault was likely  to have developed, to an unacceptable position,  during that 
time. They noted that the independent inspector had provided further comments about the 
tyre sizes but whilst they accepted the wrong  tyres had been  fitted,  they didnt think  it would 
be fair to suggest this made the van of unsatisfactory  quality. They said theyd pay to have 
the brakes repaired and would refund the cost of tyre replacement. But Mr W didnt accept 
that offer and MoneyBarn therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint MoneyBarn so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his van under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MoneyBarn, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr W. The van 
here was around  six years old and had travelled 92,825 miles. Id expect some wear  and 
tear in a vehicle  of that age and mileage. I think that would fairly include  some bodywork 
damage such as that reported by Mr W. But I think a reasonable person would expect the 
van to be safe; driveable and without significant  mechanical issues.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the van was faulty when supplied and this fault made the van not of satisfactory 
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MoneyBarn to put this right. 
Mr W had a short term right to return the van to MoneyBarn if it developed a fault within 30 
days. Mr W reported a fault on 4 November 2018  which was within 30 days. 
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a van developed a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
Ref: DRN22600583goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
The independent inspector has confirmed  many of the faults Mr W reported at that time to 
have still been  present  in February  2019  when the inspection  was completed.  In particular 
the inspector noted that all brake discs were severely worn and would not pass an MOT. The 
inspector said there was a heavy vibration  from the brakes. Mr W reported  the same  thing 
to MoneyBarn only a few days  after he took receipt of the van. The MOT completed only 600 
miles before Mr W took receipt  of the vehicle  also reported  brake  disc wear. I think, on the 
balance of probability, its most likely  the brakes were failing at the point of supply and I dont 
think a reasonable  person would think this acceptable.  So MoneyBarn should  have  allowed  
Mr W to reject the vehicle at that point.
And even  if Im wrong  about  that there  appears little dispute that the tyres fitted to the van 
when Mr W took receipt of it were the wrong  ones. The independent inspector has said:
changing the tyres can have a substantial  effect  on the vehicles road holding   we 
would never  recommend that the tyres  are changed  changing the specification is not an 
acceptable practice.
I dont think a reasonable person would  accept that a van was of an acceptable quality if it 
was supplied with the wrong  tyres,  especially as the inspector has confirmed  they could 
have a substantial effect on vehicle handling. I think vehicle handling  is an important 
feature of a van, regardless of its age or mileage. And I can see that Mr W was complaining 
of the handling in his initial  communication with MoneyBarn.  So I think  this is a further 
reason MoneyBarn  should have allowed Mr W to reject the van.
MoneyBarn put the onus on Mr W to prove  there were faults with the vehicle. I dont think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances. The relevant legislation suggests that we should 
assume the faults were there from the beginning if they become apparent  in the first six 
months. I think  it is therefore fair to suggest if MoneyBarn wished to contest the rejection of 
the van they should have  provided their own evidence  sooner. Mr W has clearly  been 
inconvenienced by the delay. In those circumstances I would agree with the adjudicator that 
MoneyBarn should pay Mr W £150  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
their actions have caused.
Ref: DRN22600584my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
refund  Mr Ws deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue;
collect the van at no further cost to Mr W;
pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes been 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2260058