K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that FCE Bank Plc failed to help him when he faced financial difficulties  in 
repaying a loan it had financed. And refused  to permit  him to lower his monthly  payments.
He wants compensation.
background
Mr F is represented  in this complaint by his mother,  but for ease of reading Ill just refer to 
him.
Mr F told us that he took out the loan through a hire purchase agreement for a vehicle in 
2016. He says that he struggled to make  payments. He feels that FCE didnt make any 
efforts to help him and that its damaged his credit record by reporting arrears. He later 
raised the issues of negative equity in the vehicle preventing him from part-exchanging  it. 
And feels he was misled when he acquired the vehicle.
FCE issued a Final Response Letter in which it said that it was unable  to lower the monthly 
contractual payments. It said it had also set out a range of options  which  might be open to 
Mr F to dispose of the vehicle or help him to manage payments. It said that if the arrears 
were paid by the end of March 2019 it wouldnt  proceed  to take action  in respect of the 
notice of default it had sent.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that FCE 
had provided Mr F with a range of options and signposted the availability of free services  
from organisations which offer assistance  to those in financial difficulty.
Mr F wasnt satisfied  with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to learn of the difficulties that Mr F has experienced. And I understand that debt can 
be a stressful situation.
Its unfortunate that this complaint has taken a long time to reach an ombudsman. And in 
that time the situation has changed. Ive recently  been informed  by FCE that Mr F voluntarily 
terminated the agreement in April 2019 having  earlier cleared the arrears. And that there  is 
no outstanding  debt on this account.
During the course of this complaint Mr F has raised  a number of issues other  than FCE not 
helping him and agreeing to lower his payments.  These have included the suggestion that 
charges were added  to the cost of the vehicle without his knowledge.  And he says markers 
placed on his credit record resulted in him having difficulty in accessing credit. And that 
these also affected  his ability to part-exchange the vehicle and take out another credit 
agreement.
Ref: DRN27918782Other than Mr Fs assertion that extra payments  were added of which he wasnt  aware, Ive 
seen no documentary information to support this. The agreement  clearly sets out the 
monthly payments  at £506.91. The only extra  payment is the optional final balloon 
payment of £7,589. And this is also clearly outlined on the first page  of the agreement.  So 
Ive seen nothing  to show the agreement  was misrepresented.
Where a lender  becomes  aware that a borrower  is in financial difficulties the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  have set down rules in its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 7 sets out the sorts of steps  that the lender should consider when dealing  with a 
customer in financial difficulties. In summary,  these require the lender to treat its customer  
fairly and with forbearance and due consideration.  That doesnt mean the lender has to 
agree to specific requests such as payment holidays or reduced monthly payments.
Our investigators view set out a comprehensive timeline of contacts between FCE and Mr F.
Ill not repeat  it as the parties  have seen it. But it accords with the contact notes  that Ive 
seen.
Although Mr F has referred to asking FCE to defer a payment in December 2016   due to his 
having some  increased financial commitments - I cant see any notes  of that. And the next 
recorded contact  is in March 2018. It appears  until then that Mr F maintained his payments.
Towards the end of 2018 and into 2019  there are several discussions about arrears  and I 
can see that FCE mentioned a number of potential options including a short-term  payment 
arrangement; voluntary  termination; part exchange  or selling the vehicle.
A notice  of default  was issued for arrears in February 2019. But these arrears  were cleared 
in April 2019. And as previously mentioned  it seems  that Mr F agreed a voluntary termination  
(one of the steps earlier identified by FCE)  and returned the vehicle  later the same month.
I understand Mr F may have found  difficulty in accessing other lines of credit. But a business 
which reports a customers account conduct  to a credit  reference  agency is required to 
report accurate information. As Mr F was in arrears of payments this has to be recorded. 
And its likely  to affect the willingness of other  lenders to offer credit.  I cant  say that FCE did 
anything wrong  in reporting the arrears.
Whilst I havent seen  a recent copy of Mr Fs credit file as the agreement  was voluntarily 
terminated and the relevant finance repaid  that should be reflected on his credit record.
In summary,  Im of the view that FCE acted  fairly  in that it advised  of various potential 
options that were  open to Mr F. And that it alerted him to the availability of free advice 
services. Of course, its always possible that more  could  be done  but thats not whats  
required.
In the circumstances here, I think that FCE adopted  a correct and proportionate response. 
And I note that the final means  of terminating the agreement was in line with one of the 
options which FCE put forward. 
I accept that Mr F is likely to be disappointed by my decision  but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN27918783my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2791878