K822xcomplaint
Mrs S, initially by herself, complained about  her home insurer Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  (LV) in relation to a claim she made to it when her 
property suffered flooding.  Later, after I had issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ss 
complaint, Mr S, her son, was added  as a complainant. Because  Mr S only joined in 
the complaint  after my provisional decision was issued, most of my background 
detail, as well as the provisional findings Ive copied  within that, refer only to Mrs S. 
background
Mrs S contacted LV in June 2016  following a period of flooding.  LV undertook repairs to 
the property; it was thought this would only take a matter of weeks  and Mrs S and her son 
were placed  into a hotel. But by August 2016  the claim had encountered  difficulties  due to 
the amount of contents in the house and it was agreed for Mrs S and her son to move  into 
rented accommodation.  The rental began in mid-August 2016.
Once the contents were cleared and LV began to dry the property it discovered there were 
damp issues not relating to the flooding. It also noted issues  with the electrics. LV accepted  
that, in areas it was repairing, it needed to act to resolve the damp  issues. It also accepted 
it needed to upgrade the electrics. But all of this meant the repair  period lengthened.
In May 2017  LV noted the repairs were  nearly complete. It was felt the property would be 
habitable by August and LV decided to pay for the rental property  until 31 October 2017 to 
afford Mrs S ample time to complete  some  snagging work it had accepted needed  
resolving and which it paid her £1,631.46 for.
In December 2017 Mrs S contacted LV in respect  of some damaged or missing contents  
items. She spoke with LVs loss adjuster about this again in January 2018.  In March 2018  
LV received  a complaint letter from a citizens advice bureau. The letter said repair  of the 
property was incomplete, with the local council having advised  it was uninhabitable. Whilst 
the property had been on the market, it had now had to be withdrawn. The bureau said 
this had caused Mrs S a lot of stress, and tardy payments by LV had caused some  debt 
issues for her too.
LV issued a final response in April 2018,  following a site meeting it had arranged to 
assess the condition of the property. In short LV didnt  think  the current condition was 
related to its work. It didnt think it could reasonably  have done  more to protect  its repairs  
from damp. Regarding  the contents  claim it said it was still looking to settle  this.
In October  2018 LVs loss adjuster wrote to Mrs S about the contents claim and a final rent 
payment. But it told her it wouldnt reimburse £100  to her that represented an increase in 
premium for her policy.  Around the same  time Mrs S complained  to this service. In 
November 2018  LV made a final payment to Mrs S of £1,838.45 for the items set out in the 
October letter, plus £255.95 for council tax.
Mrs S told us she was still unhappy  with LV. She blamed it for the state of house and said 
it had never  been  habitable after the flooding  even when  LV had said it was ready to 
move back  into in August  2017. She provided a list of repairs that she felt hadnt been 
done properly  or were  entirely outstanding. She said part of a piece of equipment had 
been lost which had caused  her to lose an item worth  over £1,000. Mrs S said LVs 
delayed payments had caused  the council to issue court proceedings against her for 
Ref: DRN20076902unpaid council tax  and she was still having to find money to fund the property she was 
living in (the rental property LV had paid for during the claim). She still felt the premium  
increase had been unfair.
LV said it didnt think we should be considering  anything  about the council tax or 
premium increase. It said these hadnt been  part of the complaint made to it in March  
2018.
Our investigator felt LV likely wasnt responsible for the house as it was in 2018. She 
thought it had generally treated Mrs S positively and sympathetically.  She said the council  
tax and premium couldnt be considered as part of this complaint.
Mrs S said LV simply hadnt dealt with all the issues shed complained  about.  She 
reiterated her view that the house  wasnt habitable in August 2017 and whilst  it was put on 
the market for sale in October 2017, mould and damp had to be cleaned  before each 
viewing.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt there  were some outstanding  issues that needed 
addressing. I felt LV should pay for reinstating  a limited area of wall in the lounge and, 
potentially, for Mrs Ss cost to unblock  a toilet and remove sandbags.  But I wasnt minded  to 
uphold the complaint in any other  respect.
My provisional findings were:
premium  increase
This issue does seem  to have only arisen  after LVs final response.  Strictly that means a 
further complaint  is required. But it makes no sense to me to not cover off this simple issue 
here. Premiums can change  at renewal  and given the claim Mrs S had it doesnt surprise  
me that the cost of her policy  increased  by around £100. Im not going to require LV to 
reimburse this sum to her.
council tax
The complaint letter to LV, dated  March  2018, did refer to late payments causing debt 
issues. It wasnt a very specific comment and no details were given. But Mrs Ss complaint  
point about council tax centres around  LV not paying her enough and the local council 
taking her to court. The court  summons  is dated January 2018. Im satisfied this issue  is 
reasonably part of this complaint.
But Im not going  to make LV pay anything in this respect. Ill explain.
Under the claim, and because Mrs S was living in rented accommodation, LV would have to 
cover the cost of one propertys council tax. Thats because the homeowner should always  
be paying some tax. Mrs S has provided her bills for the insured  property  and I can see LV 
has made payments  that cover the cost of those  bills for the period LV was liable for Mrs S 
living elsewhere.
The bills also show that part of the overdue  payment the council is seeking from Mrs S is 
for a period  after LV stopped paying  for the rental  property. Mrs S knew  LV was only 
paying for the rental property until the end of October 2017. So I think  she reasonably  
should have thought that all bills after that time were  for her to pay. Im not persuaded any 
delayed payment by LV for the council  tax caused the council  to take action.  Therefore,  
I cant reasonably find LV liable for any costs  incurred by Mrs S in respect  of that action.
Ref: DRN20076903damp and mould
I see that the water came in from the back of the house. The upstairs of the property 
wasnt affected. I also see that where LV did plaster work, it prepared  the masonry before 
doing so by applying a slurry which provides a damp proof membrane. LV has confirmed it 
didnt do any work  around the fireplace. LVs file does show that it thinks that one area of 
persistent damp was probably where the slurry damp proof treatment may have been 
badly applied.  This seems to have been accepted  around the time the snagging  list was 
agreed and a payment for outstanding  works made  to Mrs S. However, I dont think 
payment for fixing this particular area of damp  is included in that list. But nor do I think  the 
property was uninhabitable due to any works  or failures of LV.
I bear in mind that Mrs S was able to have the house put on the market  for sale in 
October 2017. I dont  think  that would have been possible if the house had been in an 
uninhabitable state. Certainly not given the council said it had to be withdrawn from 
sale when the environment officer viewed it in spring 2018.
The officer,  via a damp specialist, provided  a comprehensive report  on the property  in 
spring 2018. Notably  the worst  of the damp and mould was found upstairs and felt to be 
linked to issues with the roof. LV didnt work on the roof and had no liability  for this because  
it wasnt affected by the flooding  which had occurred.
The report  also identifies some damp  and mould  downstairs. Some  around the fireplace  
and LV has confirmed  it didnt remove  or reinstate any plaster around the fireplace. There 
are some patches of mould found in the kitchen  but it seems these are likely related to 
condensation. But the report  does  identify a problem with the left-hand end (viewed from 
the street) of the rear wall of the lounge.  And in reading that Im mindful of the loss 
adjusters comments quoted above.  He wasnt specific about which area he was referring 
to, but the rear of the lounge was in the area of work which LV undertook.
Repair for this area is clearly outstanding, and settlement  to carry out the repairs has never 
been made  as I said above there is nothing in the breakdown of the settlement for the 
snagging list that would equate to repair of this area.  So LV will need  to calculate the cost 
of repair  and pay that to Mrs S. But this area alone didnt make the house uninhabitable 
and it is the only area of damp Im satisfied LV is responsible for. So whilst  I appreciate  
that things have been difficult  for Mrs S since LV completed its repairs,  and shes had a lot 
of costs to deal with as a result of continuing  to live elsewhere, I cant  reasonably  blame 
LV for any of that. Apart from the cost of repairing the area of damp, Im not going to make  
LV pay anything more.
repairs
Mrs S has provided a comprehensive  list of issues with the works completed by LV. Ive 
compared this to the breakdown LV has given of the settlement it made in 2017 for 
snagging issues. Most of the items  on the list set out by Mrs S are included within that 
breakdown. For completeness the items Im happy LV has settled for are:
 Adjusting the bathroom door area as the door wont close
 Skirting cut too short  in areas
 Some re-plastering
 Light fittings  not reinstated
 Cost of fitting hospital taps
 Missing folding door
Ref: DRN20076904 Fitting a shelf in the unit under the sink
 Cleaning and removing paint splashes
In my view these items have all been  adequately  settled for. Im not going  to make LV 
do anything more.
The other items Mrs S complained about were (numbered for ease of reference):
1.Skirting boards werent replaced like-for-like
2.Electrical  sockets  were installed  in the wrong places
3.The outside light switch was reinstalled at the top of the wall and is inaccessible
4.A period feature shelf was covered over
5.Pine panel flooring  in the bathroom wasnt replaced
6.The kitchen extractor wasnt  replaced  like-for-like
7.The kitchen was designed and fitted poorly   the cooker  had to be moved and only 
one wall unit could be fitted
8.The newly installed toilet was blocked
9.Contaminated sandbags  were  left at the property
Regarding 1  7, whilst  I appreciate that the home not being  restored as it was would be 
disappointing for Mrs S, Im mindful that she had decided even before repairs  were 
completed to not return to the property. LV should  have  reinstated  it on a like-for-like basis 
but if it didnt (and I havent seen clear comparative evidence that makes  me think this is 
likely the case), I have  to think about  what loss Mrs S has suffered because of any failure 
that may have occurred.  So even accepting Mrs Ss word on this, she was never going to 
move back  in to the property, so shes had no loss of enjoyment due to any 
non-like-for -like replacement,  nor has she suffered because an item doesnt work as it did 
before. And Ive not seen  that any of these  issues  has affected  the value of the property. If 
LV did fail Mrs S in this respect,  she hasnt, as far as I can see, suffered as a result of that 
failure. Which means I cant  reasonably require LV to do anything  to put matters right.
Numbers 8 and 9 are slightly different in that these are things I think Mrs S would  have 
had to fix or resolve.  If the toilet was blocked during or shortly  after LV finished work on 
the house, I think its likely it was responsible for that. If Mrs S had any costs for 
unblocking the toilet, she should provide evidence of them  for me to consider. Removing 
contaminated sandbags is something LV should have done as part of the claim. If Mrs S 
had a cost for removing  them she should provide proof of this to me for me to consider.
If proof is provided, Ill share it with LV. Once  its had chance to comment, if it isnt prepared 
to cover the cost, Ill let both parties  know  what I think about  these  two items.
missing spindle
I dont know if LV failed  Mrs S by losing this item or not. But Mrs S explains that her loss 
because this is missing  is that a damaged  item cant be repaired, because  the spindle 
was an integral and irreplaceable part of a piece of equipment being used to repair the 
item. Mrs S said if the item had been  fixed it would be worth  over £1,000. It surprises me 
that something like a spindle cant be replaced. But I also have to say that whilst Mrs Ss 
explanation suggests she might have  had a possible loss, its no more  than a possibility. 
Theres no guarantee if the item could ever have been fixed or that once this was 
achieved it would have  been sold, or sold at the value Mrs S thinks  it was worth. So Im 
not persuaded LV owes Mrs S anything in respect of either the missing item or the 
damaged item which Mrs S says now cant be repaired.
Ref: DRN20076905distress and inconvenience
Its clear Mrs S has been through a difficult time,  and I have found one or two instances 
above where LV hasnt provided  sufficient settlement to Mrs S. But I think these few issues  
are minor in comparison to the condition of the house and it is the condition  of the house 
that Mrs S has been most upset by and which has caused her to not be able to sell the 
property. I also know the court  summons worried  her, but I found above that LV wasnt  
responsible for that. So whilst I am going  to require LV to make a few cash settlements to 
Mrs S for the repair issues which Ive noted above it has an outstanding liability  for, Im not 
going to require it to pay any compensation to Mrs S for the upset thats been suffered. In 
my view LV just isnt responsible for that.
responses to my provisional  decision
LV indicated it was agreeable  to my findings. 
In Mrs S and Mr Ss responses a hearing  was requested and, having considered  this 
request, I sent a letter explaining that I felt a hearing wasnt necessary for me to fairly 
determine Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint. They then made some final comments for my 
consideration. 
Some comments related to costs which Mrs S had incurred  £75 for removing the sandbags 
and £70 for moving furniture from their home to the rented property. They  didnt tell me 
about any costs  incurred for unblocking the toilet.  I asked LV to pay these two sums and it 
agreed. LV also proposed  that a settlement  amount was reached for repair of the wall. It 
proposed £500.  I agreed to put this sum to Mrs S and Mr S. I said to them:
LV also proposed that it settle for the damage I had said it was liable for, to the left-hand  
end of the rear lounge  wall. It said this could  be repaired in three-days with a small cost for 
materials, so it would  pay £500 for that. Ive seen  the original repair costs for you home, 
broken down by room.  Im currently satisfied that £500 to repair this one area of the rear 
lounge wall is fair and reasonable.  Please let me know if you have any comment  to make on 
this issue, if you dont  agree that £500  is sufficient  for this particular repair  youll need to 
provide evidence to support your view.
Mrs S told us they were  happy for LV to pay £145 and £500 to resolve these specific  issues.  
But they were still unhappy  about  the way theyd  been treated. Here Ive summarised  the 
content of Mrs S and Mr Ss responses, as they relate to the handling of the claim and the 
upset they were caused. However, I can confirm that Ive read their responses in their 
entirety and noted  the contents in full. In summary they said:
Regarding the premium what was needed  was for it all to be refunded (not just the 
increased amount)   as the house was empty  it hadnt really needed insuring.
It was LV that had sent them a leaflet about  this service, so LV must have known it was 
in the wrong, that must  be why weve acted in its favour when the evidence so clearly  
shows LV is at fault. 
Theyve always been truthful and theyve explained a number of times,  in some detail, 
what happened.
Integrity and honour are a way of life, they expected LV to honour their claim,  
unfortunately for them it just made  things  worse and took a morally indefensible stance 
by trying to blame them  for the condition of the house.
Ref: DRN20076906LVs contractors gained their trust only to lie to them, dispose  of valuable possessions  
without authority  and spread feacal matter  over the rest. It had only ever completed one 
job on the snagging list.
The property had never been  dried properly, sewage had soaked into the walls and 
when LVs work was meant to be completed  dirty water was still coming up through the 
floor and seeping  out of the walls in 4  10cm patches. 
It was the above fact that had prevented them from moving home  so they had clearly  
suffered due to LVs failures.
The report from the local councils  expert  showed it was LVs work, or failure to complete 
that properly including  that water  was still seeping from the floor and walls, which had 
caused damage to the house and prevented  them moving home.  We were  invited to 
speak to the expert.
LV should sue the water authority.
The on-going  dispute was debilitating  and having a significant effect on both of them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Premium  Whilst I note Mrs S and Mr Ss comment in response to my provisional findings,  it 
was an increase in the annual premium in 2018  from that charged in 2017 which Mrs S 
specifically complained about in a letter to LV dated  June 2018 and shared with our service 
in October 2018.  I stand  by what I said provisionally, both about being able to deal with that 
simple issue and in what I said. But the issue Mrs S and Mr S have now raised is very 
different to that. This is not a simple and straightforward issue and it would be unfair  for me 
to comment on it now as part of this decision without both parties having chance  to work 
through any arguments or important points  that affect what  a fair and reasonable outcome 
might be for the concern  in question.  Whilst I know that neither Mrs S or Mr S are in the best 
of health and dealing with matters can be difficult for them, it would be remiss of me to jump  
the gun and make any findings about this here or to become involved in investigating a 
whole new matter at the final decision stage of our service when the parties havent 
progressed the issue through the early  stages of the industrys established and regulated  
complaints procedure. But, as I confirmed earlier in this paragraph,  my comments  about the 
premium increase stand   Im not going  to make  LV reimburse the increased amount.
Repairs  I noted  provisionally that LV hadnt completed the snagging list of repairs.  But it 
did pay Mrs S for most of the issues she had identified  to it so she could complete this work. 
I explained provisionally what I thought it had paid for, what  it hadnt, that it was reasonable 
for it to not have  paid for most items and what I thought was needed now for the items that it 
should have settled for but hadnt. I said if Mrs S had a cost for the sandbag removal and 
unblocking of the toilet, she should  present this to me so I could share  the evidence  with LV. 
Other than telling me £75 was agreed for removing sandbags and £70 had been paid for 
moving furniture, Mrs S didnt provide any evidence. In any event, I shared Mrs Ss 
comments with LV and it agreed to pay £145  to settle these two issues.  Ill add this to my 
award, but I wont be making any award  regarding Mrs S having unblocked the toilet 
because she hasnt  shown or told me she incurred a cost for this. Ill also amend my award  
to reflect  that £500 is to be paid to resolve the outstanding issue of repair  to left-hand end of 
the rear lounge wall. Im satisfied that payment of these sums  fairly and reasonably  
concludes the matter of LVs liability  for outstanding repairs. 
Ref: DRN20076907Bias  Financial service businesses are bound to provide a copy of our leaflet as part of the 
industry regulated  complaints procedure. I appreciate  that Mrs S and Mr S have  found  my 
findings disappointing and upsetting. I know they believe they are in the right and that the 
only fair outcome  will be a decision that reflects  everything they believe and see as fact. 
I dont doubt their strength of feeling on this matter but Im not persuaded, from all of the 
evidence I have seen,  that the situation is quite as they see it. I have considered everything 
theyve provided  and said, and everything  from LV too. The balance  of the evidence as I see 
it is as reflected by my provisional findings, as updated by this final decision. I can assure 
them both that I have not set out to find in LVs favour and nor have I any desire  to cause 
them further upset.  Ive completed an independent review of everything as they asked this 
service to do when they made their complaint to us. Whilst  I stand by the finings Ive made, 
Im sorry  theyve  been caused upset because they havent  met with their expectations.
Distress, damp  and claim handling  I see how upsetting this has been  for Mrs S and Mr S, 
how they feel theyve  been accused unfairly by LV and that they think  it didnt assist them  at 
all in their time of need, only making things worse.  I understand their feelings  in this respect 
but my review of all of the evidence doesnt suggest  that LV always  acted entirely 
unreasonably when handling their claim or failed  them to such a significant degree.  
Admittedly, I did not live through  the situation  as they did  but it is not my job to re-live a 
complainants experience  and then comment upon it. Rather  I review  the available  evidence 
and, from a removed  perspective,  set out my findings about the faults  and liabilities of the 
parties, with focus  falling on those relating to or caused by the insurer. That is what  Ive done 
here and, unfortunately for Mrs S and Mr S, none  of their responses to my provisional 
decision have persuaded me to change or move away from those initial  findings.  Whilst Ive 
re-reviewed the expert reports, I simply dont agree with Mrs S and Mr S that they show  the 
house could not be lived in due to failures  of LV. With a clearly written,  contemporaneous 
report available from the local councils expert, Ive no need to seek further comment  from 
the author.  Whether LV decides  to seek recovery from the water  authority or not, will not 
change its liabilities to Mrs S and Mr S for the damage caused by the flooding  which  
occurred in 2016 and LVs repairs which followed. 
Overall  Im truly sorry this has been such an upsetting time for Mrs S and Mr S but I remain 
of the view that LVs outstanding liability to them is restricted to paying Mrs S £500 for fixing 
the left-hand  end of the rear lounge wall and £145  for disposal  and removal costs. My 
provisional and interim  provisional findings now form part of the findings of this final decision.
Ref: DRN20076908my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to pay 
Mrs S:
£500 to allow her to reinstate the left-hand end of the rear lounge  wall where it has 
accepted it likely poorly applied damp proofing material.
£145 to reimburse  her costs incurred for removing sandbags (£75)  and moving furniture 
between properties  (£70).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2007690