K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited  (Sun Life) said the 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) on one of his personal pensions  lapsed and would no longer 
apply because he didnt  take his pension  benefits  in time.
background
Mr C started a personal pension with Confederation Life (now  part of Sun Life) in June 1988 
(referred to from now on as Plan V). In August 1989  he started a second one (Plan  X). Each 
plan offered a guaranteed  annuity rate (GAR) at retirement, but the terms, particularly those 
pertaining to the GAR, of each varied.
Mr Cs Proposed Pension Date for both plans was set for when he turned 65 in 
November 2016.  
In June 2016 Sun Life sent Mr C wake up packs for both plans, reminding him that his 
retirement date was approaching. The front page  of each pack listed the current  fund value 
of the plan and showed the current  retirement date as 19 November 2016.  The second 
page of the pack for Plan V says the GAR is only available at 19/11/2016. You must return 
your completed application  form and all documents no later than 29 days after this date or 
the Guaranteed Annuity  Rate  will expire.  And the Notes  on the last page of the pack explain 
that the GAR  expires 29 days after the retirement date originally selected when you started  
the plan.
Sun Life sent Mr C another set of retirement  documents for both of his plans in 
September 2016. These packs contained  broadly  the same information, including the same  
details about the GAR  for Plan V, provided  to him in June. 
On 4 October 2016 Mr C called Sun Life because hed received the paperwork about his two 
pensions and had questions. Mr C asked specifically about  the GAR only being guaranteed  
until 19 November 2016. In response, he was told the information that he was reading wasnt  
correct and that for Plan V the GAR had been applicable since  age 55 and will be available 
until age 75. It was further explained that if Mr C doesnt take his benefits at his proposed  
pension date, his retirement date would be deferred by five years,  but this doesnt  mean  hes 
tied to anything. He just wont be sent further paperwork for another five years.  
Mr C also asked about tax as hes still working   self-employed  and knew hed be taxed on 
any income, pension  included, above  his personal allowance  for the year. He was told if he 
took the pension in full the first 25% would be tax free and the remainder taxed, at source, 
using an emergency  tax rate. He could later reclaim  back any overpayment. At this time, Sun 
Life also told Mr C hed lose his annuity rate benefits if he took the entire fund as a lump  
sum. In response, Mr C said this would be pointless. When asked if he was considering 
taking a lump sum, Mr C responded that he wasnt sure yet and explained that it was a 
difficult one to decide.  
Later in the call, Sun Life repeats that it seems Mr C was sent the wrong figures  and it is 
agreed a new set would be sent out. It was also agreed that the technical team would 
provide him with an explanation of why the rates available for his two plans are so different. 
Ref: DRN26514852So on 11 October  Sun Life sent Mr C a letter  with GAR fact sheets. This letter  did not 
mention when the GAR expired. Mr C wrote back on 19 October for further clarification. 
Sun Life responded on 26 October with further details about the GAR. This letter also did not 
mention when the GAR expired. 
In April 2018 Mr C attempted to take benefits from his plans  and was told by Sun Life that 
the GAR  for Plan V had lapsed. Mr C subsequently complained. 
A couple days later, Sun Life issued Mr C a new retirement pack. This pack specified  that 
the GAR  expires  on 19 November 2021. Mr C queried this with Sun Life by letter two days  
later. 
On 23 April 2018 Sun Life issued its final response letter to Mr C partially  upholding his 
complaint. This letter explained in summary:
-Pre-vest  letters were  sent to Mr C in June and September 2016 both detailing  how 
to qualify for the GAR  and explaining the GAR is only available at 19/11/2016.
-When Mr C contacted  Sun Life on 4 October 2016 the agent confirmed the GAR 
was only available on 19 November  2016.
-An apology  was offered because  the letter dated 11 April 2018  incorrectly said the 
GAR was available at 21 November  2018.
Mr C asked Sun Life to reconsider,  but Sun Life reaffirmed its decision. So he brought  his 
complaint to this service  for an independent  assessment. One of our investigators looked  
into Mr Cs complaint and thought  it should be upheld. He reasoned:
-It wasnt clear  the terms  and conditions of the policy  mandated the GAR was only 
available on 19 November 2016;  and
-Sun Lifes communications about  when the GAR expired werent  clear  and led him 
to believe it would  be available  after 19 November 2016.
Sun Life didnt agree  and in response  said it doesnt  dispute Mr C was given incorrect  
information and it offered  Mr C £250 to make up for this. But Sun Life insisted  that all of the 
incorrect information was provided after his GAR expired. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
my investigation
After the complaint was passed to me, I contacted Sun Life for comment  on what Mr C was 
told during the 4 October 2016  call. This is because Id listened to the call and, contrary  to 
Sun Lifes position, it seemed clear Mr C was given the wrong  information  about the 
Plan V GAR  and this call took place before the GAR expired.  
Sun Life reviewed its position,  and agreed  Mr C had been given incorrect  information about 
taking up the GAR  before  it expired and offered him £1500. But it argued Mr C still wouldnt 
have taken his benefits in 2016 and so it shouldnt  be required to reinstate the GAR,  
because during the same call Mr C was also worried  about incurring an additional tax charge 
because of his pension.
Mr C didnt accept the revised offer. He said had he known  the GAR was going to expire he 
would have taken  benefits before 19 November 2016. 
Ref: DRN26514853my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the parties are now in agreement  that Mr C was given incorrect information  about 
accessing his GAR  for Plan V, I no longer need  to decide that issue. Nor do I need  to 
consider what the terms and conditions of the policy  provide  regarding  the GAR expiry. 
Instead, I now need to decide what impact this information had and whether Mr C wouldve 
acted differently if hed been given the right information. 
Having given careful consideration to everything the parties have  said and the evidence 
thats been provided, I think  Mr C, more  likely  than not, didnt take the GAR in 2016  because 
he thought he could take it at any time up until he turned 75. And if hed been  told the right 
thing on 4 October,  based on the balance of probabilities, I consider it most likely that Mr C 
would have opted to secure the valuable GAR offered by Plan V. 
I say this because  he was clearly aware the GAR offered was quite valuable,  especially as 
compared to the rate offered for his Plan X. He was soon to stop working and being self-
employed, he had flexibility to delay or speed up his retirement  as best suited  his needs. And 
if he was told on 4 October he had to take benefits  by 19 November or lose a nearly  10% 
GAR, he had over a month to determine  how best to proceed to minimise his tax obligation.  
Moreover, even if the tax wasnt avoidable, I think it reasonable  to conclude, Mr C would 
have dealt with any additional one-off tax charge in exchange for an income for life at a rate 
nearly double  that offered by his other  plan.  
putting things right
In order to put things  right, Mr C should  be put, as close as possible, in the position he 
wouldve been in if hed been given the right information on 4 October 2016. So, Sun Life 
should:
-Allow  Mr C the option to access his GAR for Plan V as if he was taking benefits  on 
19 November 2016; using the fund value as at that time.
-If Mr C takes  this option, pay back payments for all annuity income Mr C wouldve 
received if hed taken benefits on 19 November 2016.
-For each  back  payment owed,  pay 8% simple interest for the time between  when  
the annuity payment  shouldve  been paid and when it actually was paid to Mr C.
-And if Mr C takes this option, refund any contributions Mr Cs made to Plan V since 
19 November 2016.
Sun Life should also pay Mr C a further £250  for the trouble and upset caused.  
Ref: DRN26514854my final decision
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance  Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay him compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2651485