K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about a legal  charge  of £300  which was part of the fees they paid to 
complete a Home  Purchase Plan application  with Al Rayan Bank PLC.  
background
In early 2018, Mr and Mrs S applied  to Al Rayan Bank for an Islamic mortgage, also known 
as a Home Purchase  Plan (HPP). Two solicitors were involved in completing  the HPP one 
acting on behalf  of Mr and Mrs S and another acting on behalf of the bank. Mr and Mrs S 
had to pay any charges  made by their own solicitor  and also the banks solicitor. 
Al Rayan  Bank said the £300  was an additional amount charged by its solicitor because Mr 
and Mrs S owned a leasehold property and additional hours  were  spent reviewing the lease. 
The charge  was £250 plus £50 VAT.
Mr and Mrs S dont  agree this charge was fair and, because  they were  told about it late in 
the process, they felt they had no choice but to pay it. They also think they were  
disadvantaged because they were  determined to take out an HPP. 
Our investigator didnt  think the charge was unreasonable  or unfair.  This was because the 
solicitors had completed additional  work while reviewing Mr and Mrs Ss lease; the tariff of 
charges say additional fees may apply; and Mr and Mrs S said they were aware that up to 
£250 could be charged.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and asked for a review by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point,  and because Mr and Mrs Ss property  was leasehold rather than 
freehold, I agree that the banks solicitor  would have spent more time reviewing Mr and Mrs 
Ss lease.  I think its reasonable to charge for this time and I cant fairly conclude  that £250  is 
excessive given hourly rates that solicitors  typically charge.
Mr and Mrs S say they were told too late and felt they had no choice but to pay the charge. 
The banks tariff of charges says it would let Mr and Mrs S know  about any additional legal 
fees as soon as it could.  A legal pack received by the banks solicitor on 5 February 2018 
included details of the lease. The charge in dispute  was set out as additional fees £300 in 
an e-mail  from the banks  solicitor to Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor  on 8 February  2018.  
Im persuaded that the additional charge was passed on by the banks solicitor  as soon as it 
reasonably could and that Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor would likely have then passed it on to 
them. But I also think it could have been clearer what the additional charge was for. The e-
mail simply referred  to additional fees £300 but did not detail that this related to a review of 
the lease or that it included £50 VAT. So Ive thought about whether, had the additional  
charge been set out more  clearly,  Mr and Mrs S would still have gone  ahead.
Mr and Mrs S wanted an HPP, and if they disagreed with the additional charge its possible 
they might  have thought about applying for one with another lender. But because solicitors  
Ref: DRN26857752generally charge  extra  for reviewing a lease  I consider it likely, overall, that Mr and Mrs S 
would have continued with their application with Al Rayan  Bank  which meant  they needed to 
pay the additional charge.
For these reasons I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2020.
Emma English
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2685775