K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Fidelity  Works  Ltd (trading at the time as Life Boat Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly. He also says the interest and charges added to the loan by a third party are 
excessive.
background
I sent Mr H and Fidelity Works my provisional  decision  on this complaint on 
15 October 2019. A copy of it is attached and it forms part of this final decision. I explained 
why I wasnt planning  to uphold one aspect  of Mr Hs complaint and why I didnt  think 
Fidelity Works was responsible for another aspect.  I asked  both parties to let me know  if they 
had anything to add.
Neither Mr H nor Fidelity Works have  sent me anything else to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So my final decision is the same  as my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint against  Fidelity Works Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29456822COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H says Fidelity Works  Ltd (trading  at the time as Life Boat Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.  He also 
says the interest and charges added to the loan by a third party are excessive.
background
Theres limited information available  about  Fidelity Works decision to lend to Mr H. The information  
available to me suggests the loan was approved at some point in early  December  2013. Mr H has 
provided a copy of his bank statement showing £300 was deposited  into his account  by Fidelity  Works  
on 9 December  2013.  I have  not seen a copy of a loan agreement,  so I do not know the repayment 
terms.
I understand Fidelity  Works ceased lending  in 2016, was taken over in 2017 and now operates  only 
as a broker. It says it has no historic lending  records, nor any records about the defaulted loans and 
to whom they were sold.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
When Fidelity  Works lent to Mr H, it was authorised and regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), 
which had produced guidance for lenders about irresponsible lending (the ILG).
Broadly, the ILG said Fidelity Works needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure 
Mr H could repay his loans  in a sustainable  manner.  
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and Mr Hs income and expenditure.
the lending decision
As Ive mentioned above, Fidelity Works has no records and has provided no information  about  the 
loan. But there seems  to be no dispute  it lent Mr H £300 in December 2013.
The lack of records  is unfortunate but understandable  given how long ago the loan was approved and 
that Fidelity Works is no longer an active lender.  It does, however, inevitably make it more difficult  to 
decide whether Fidelity  Works lent to Mr H responsibly or not. Among other things,  I cant say whether 
it carried out proportionate  checks before lending.
I can however decide,  on balance,  what I think  proportionate checks  most likely  wouldve shown. 
Taking into account the small  size of the loan, I wouldnt  have  expected 
Fidelity Works  to do much  more than ask Mr H to provide some a statement  of his income  and 
expenditure. To expect any more than that would  likely be disproportionate. I think  its unlikely asking  
for a proportionate amount of information for a £300  loan,  which was Mr Hs first and only loan from 
Fidelity Works, wouldve suggested the loan was unaffordable.
This means  I dont think its likely Fidelity Works decision to lend to Mr H was irresponsible and Im 
not planning to uphold this aspect of his complaint.
Ref: DRN29456823the interest and charges added by the third party
I dont think its likely  Fidelity  Works  is responsible for answering this aspect of Mr Hs complaint.  
From what Fidelity Works has told this service,  when it ceased lending it sold outstanding debts  like 
Mr Hs to third parties. As Fidelity Works has no record of Mr Hs debt, it seems likely  Mr Hs debt was 
sold to the third party he has been  dealing with. 
This means  the third party  isnt acting  on Fidelity  Works behalf  i.e. the third party  isnt managing the 
debt on behalf of Fidelity Works, but is the owner  of the debt.  So in these  circumstances, Fidelity  
Works is not responsible for the interest and charges Mr H says have been unfairly added  to the 
balance by the third party.
If Mr H thinks  the balance  the third party  says he owes  is incorrect or is unfair, hell have  to raise a 
complaint about that with the third party.
Ref: DRN2945682