K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the policy he was sold in 1999. Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  
is now the provider  of the policy, but neither it nor its predecessors  sold the policy  to Mr G  
that was done by a firm of independent financial advisers.
 
Mr G asked for information in 2017  and 2018,  which  he says he wanted in order  to decide 
what to do with his policy  whether to keep it, alter it or surrender it. However, he hasnt 
been able to get straight answers  from Aviva and so he feels hes been unable to make any 
decisions and has been stuck with a poorly  performing policy. 
He also considers that as the industry  regulator reduced the growth  rates used to calculate  
the premiums for such policies shortly after his policy  was sold, Aviva  should have warned 
him that it was almost  immediately in danger.
In the most part I have  referred to Aviva  throughout, even when events or activities involved 
one of its predecessors. 
background
Mr G was sold a Homebuyer Plus Plan. The policy is a whole of life plan and if taken in that 
form there would  have been a minimum amount of life cover that had to be associated with 
the policy. However, the policy  could be set up to fund a specific amount over a selected  
term in the same way a mortgage endowment policy does.  At the end of the funding  term, 
the policy can be cashed-in without penalty.  At that point the protection  benefits would 
cease. 
If the policyholder set the policy up with a funding amount and term, but no longer needs it 
for that purpose,  they dont have to cash the policy in at the end of the funding  term. At that 
point the premiums would cease to be paid and the fund value would be used to provide for 
the costs of the protection benefits until a valid claim was made  or it no longer has a value to 
provide the protection  benefits. In the event of a claim under the death benefit  (or other  
similar benefits)  the sum assured is paid out (an amount equal to the funding  target)  and the 
policy would cease.
Mr Gs policy  was set up with the aim of providing  a lump sum of £136,800 at the end of 
25 years.  The policy  is invested in the unitised with-profits fund. During the term of the policy  
units will be bought in the fund and bonuses  will increase the unit value (the amount is 
dependent on the performance of the fund).  Once  added the increase in value due to a 
bonus cant be removed.  At the end of the funding term the value paid out is the cash-in 
value of the units attached to the policy.  In addition to that amount there  can also be a 
terminal or final bonus (which Mr G has said was sometimes referred to as a loyalty  bonus) 
added to the value. This will be a percentage of the cash-in value of the units attached  to the 
policy. There is no guarantee that such  a bonus  will be added and the bonus rate will be 
reviewed by the life company on a regular  basis and so will change from time to time. The 
maturity value of the policy will depend on the number of units  attached to the policy,  the 
cash-in value of each  unit and the terminal bonus rate at the end of the funding  term.
In addition to the life cover associated with the policy,  Mr G also added serious illness  and 
disability benefit,  permanent and total disability benefit and waiver  of contribution benefit. 
Ref: DRN20325472The protection benefits are charged for on a monthly  basis by way of cancellation of units 
attached to the policy. The cost of the benefits  is determined by multiple factors. The first 
being the risk of the benefit being  claimed  this will be based on things like the age of the 
policyholder, their medical status,  smoker status  and actuarial data on claims. There is then 
a comparison between  the amount of the benefits due under the policy  and the value of the 
units attached  to the policy  the difference being  the amount of cover charged for. 
Throughout the term of a policy the value of the with-profits fund would be assessed  by 
Aviva and when appropriate, the unit value would be increased.   When the value of the unit 
holding increases, the amount of benefits being paid for will decrease. However,  that doesnt 
automatically mean the cost of the benefits  decrease. This is because the risk of a claim 
being made will usually  increase throughout  the funding term as the policyholder gets older 
and is more likely to make a claim. Changes in actuarial data on mortality and morbidity will 
also affect costs.
The terms and conditions  of the policy dont allow a policyholder to alter the benefits  
associated with the policy after it has gone  into force.  However, if a policyholder requests an 
alteration Aviva has said it would consider the request  and might, as a concession, allow 
changes. That said, it has confirmed that the product Mr G arranged  is a life assurance  
product and as such the life cover could  never  have been removed completely. Furthermore, 
alterations to the benefits in the last ten years  of the funding  term could make the policy  
non-qualifying for tax purposes and so Aviva  would not allow  changes  during those years.  
The policy was sold by a firm of independent  financial advisers and so Aviva  has no 
responsibility for whether it was suitable for Mr G.
In August  2017  Mr G asked for some  information about his policy  and what  the premium  
would be if he reduced the cover  to a minimum. He also wanted to know what the policy was 
worth and details of the terminal  bonus over the previous three years.  
At the end of August  2017 Aviva wrote  to Mr G and enclosed a document  which gave details 
about the policy  start date, premiums, last premium collection date and protection  benefits  
provided. It also set out the fund value of the policy and its surrender value at that time. 
At the beginning  of September  2017 Aviva again  wrote to Mr G. it enclosed policy details, 
various documents relating to the policy and figures  for the terminal  bonus for the preceding 
three years. It confirmed  Mr G did have the option of reducing  the amount  of life cover  
associated with the policy and that quotes would be sent  they werent and Mr G doesnt  
appear to have chased the information.
In mid-June 2018 Mr G again asked for information about the policy  and said to Aviva that 
he hadnt received  all of the information  hed requested the previous year.  
In July 2018 Aviva wrote  to Mr G. It told him what the then current  surrender value was and 
how it had been  calculated. It also confirmed the average annual  growth rate the surrender 
value represented  based on the premiums paid. It explained how projections for the maturity 
value were calculated.  A copy  of the transaction history for the policy was enclosed, which 
detailed the units  being purchased by the monthly  premiums and the charges being  
deducted from the unit holding.
On 1 August  2018 Mr G was sent a further letter by Aviva.  It detailed  the surrender  value  for 
the policy and how much of that was made up of the final bonus.  It also set out the amount 
Ref: DRN20325473of life cover  associated with the policy, its start date,  the monthly premium, total premiums 
paid and the monthly administration  fee. The enclosed documentation  provided some 
additional information about  the other  policy benefits  and fund value.
Mr G contacted Aviva shortly after this, unhappy  that the information hed requested hadnt 
been sent. 
In mid-August 2018 Aviva sent Mr G another letter, which gave the same information (at a 
later date) as the letter of 1 August. 
In mid-September 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr G and provided him with annual  growth  rates from 
2009 onwards.  It confirmed it didnt have records for before 2009.
A few days  later in September 2018  Aviva also wrote to Mr G and told him the policy  was a 
whole of life plan without a maturity  date. It gave further information about how whole of life 
policies work  and confirmed that while the life cover  couldnt be removed, the critical illness 
cover could.
When Mr G complained about the service hed received from Aviva, it acknowledged that it 
hadnt sent all the information it had been  asked  for. It apologised and sent Mr G £150 for 
the trouble and upset its error  may have caused him.
Mr G didnt accept Avivas  offer and asked this service to consider his complaint. He said to 
us he feels he has never been  able to get the necessary details for a financial adviser  to 
make a comparison of the benefits of his endowment  against  anything currently on the 
market, so he has been forced to give up trying in spite  of trying to change  or cancel the 
endowment every time he has changed jobs in the last 18 years. 
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Gs complaint  but didnt uphold it. She forwarded on 
Avivas response to the 16 questions he had told us he had been  asking  of Aviva.  Whilst she 
accepted the information  Mr G had wanted  had not all been provided  to him in 20017 and 
2018, Aviva  had offered an appropriate amount of compensation.  The adjudicator  also 
confirmed that Aviva  was not responsible for Mr Gs concerns about the sale of the policy  
those concerns needed to be addressed to the financial advisers who had sold the policy  to 
him.
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators view. He said that he had been requesting information in 
order to determine  whether  Aviva had acted inappropriately in:
not warning him that the policy was unlikely to reach its target value when the regulator  
changed the growth rates used  for illustrations  shortly after the sale of the policy,  Mr G 
said he believes Aviva  was irresponsible  for selling a policy  with a premium based  on an 
assumed growth rate of 6.5%. He thinks Aviva  should have warned him that its 
expectations for growth were  unrealistic from the beginning. He believes that had it done 
so, he would have  cancelled the policy immediately;  and
not providing timely or accurate information  to allow him to make an informed decision 
about whether  to continue the policy and if he did, whether to alter it.
In light of this, Mr G didnt consider the compensation was sufficient and it didnt take into 
account previous  indiscretions from the beginning and over many  years,  the mishandling of 
Ref: DRN20325474complaints or the length of time to provide  answers to basic  questions that are important for 
managing the policy.
Mr G also questioned the answers  to the questions  that had been recently given, as hed 
had different answers in the past to some  of the same questions.  
Upon further questions being  asked  of Aviva, it confirmed that the figure it detailed  in its 
letter of 14 August for the amount of life cover that would be payable in the event of Mr Gs 
death was incorrect.  It explained that the error came about when the terminal  bonus  amount 
was added to the death benefit rather than the investment value.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 January 2020. In that document I set out my conclusions  
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt of that document.  
I would  firstly confirm to Mr G that we can only consider a complaint if it has firstly been 
referred to the business it was made about.  It is only fair that a business has the opportunity  
to address any issues raised and compensate for them  if appropriate. So whilst Mr G has 
referred to indiscretions  from the beginning and over many  years in his correspondence 
with this service, I can only look at the issues he raised with Aviva.  If Mr G wants any 
additional issues considered, he will need  to raise  the matter with Aviva in the first instance, 
providing it with details of his concerns  and provide  any evidence he has.
That said,  I will comment on one issue  that Mr G raised after referring the complaint to this 
service. He believes that Aviva should have contacted him almost immediately after the 
policy started to tell him about the changes in standard  projection  rates  the regulator had 
brought in and told him that his policy would not achieve its target. 
As I have documented above,  the policy was sold to Mr G by a firm of independent financial 
advisers. It was for that business to explain to him how the policy worked and to select  a 
suitable growth rate on which Aviva would set the premiums. If any changes to that selection 
needed to be made,  it would  have been  for Mr Gs advisers to deal with and, if appropriate, 
amend its advice and give Aviva  the necessary instructions for changes.  Avivas  role in the 
process was simply to either accept or reject the proposal put before it by the financial 
adviser. It was not for it to give an opinion on the suitability of that proposal.
Whilst I know Mr G thinks  Aviva should have done  this, it wasnt privy to the discussions 
between Mr G and his advisers. It wouldnt have known what  he was told or why a growth  
rate was selected.  It would not have  been appropriate for Aviva to have interfered  with an 
advice process it was not involved with and had no knowledge of. As such,  if Mr G has 
concerns about  the growth rate selected  for the purposes of setting the policy  premium,  it 
should be referred to the financial advisers  who sold him the policy.
As for the communications in 2017 and 2018,  Aviva  has acknowledged that there were 
failings and that not all the information  Mr G wanted  was provided and where it was it wasnt 
necessarily done  in an efficient way. Aviva  has also now explained why some  of the 
information omitted wasnt made available. 
Mr G has said that he doesnt believe Aviva when it says it doesnt have details of the growth 
achieved on the fund in the early years. The fund Mr G wants  performance information  about 
is one that was created by the life and investment company that originally issued his policy  
Friends Provident. Some years later Friends Provident merged with other similar  providers to 
form Friends Life. Later still Aviva bought Friends Life. Given  the time that has passed and 
Ref: DRN20325475the changes and hands any such information has passed through, I see no reason  to doubt 
Aviva when it says it doesnt have  some of the information Mr G wants. Whilst this will be 
disappointing for him, I dont think I can find Aviva at fault for not having  generic information 
about a fund from such a long time ago and which  it didnt have any involvement with at the 
time. 
Mr G has complained that in some  correspondence  Aviva has referred to the serious illness  
and disability benefit as critical illness benefit. He has found this added to the confusion  
about the policy. I would agree that using policy specific terminology rather  than standard 
industry terms is preferable. However, it doesnt appear that Mr G had difficulty  in identifying  
what benefit Aviva was referring to. 
Mr G is unhappy that Aviva has not confirmed how removing certain benefits would affect 
the terminal bonus. As I have explained  above,  by the time Mr G asked  for this information in 
2017, he wouldnt have  been allowed to do so as he was in the last ten years of the funding  
term. However, even if such a thing had been  allowed, Aviva couldnt have told him how the 
terminal bonus, assuming one would  be paid, would be affected.  It would depend  on the 
fund performance over the remaining term and the number and value of units attached to the 
policy. Aviva  couldnt  have even confirmed whether a terminal bonus would be paid at the 
end of the funding term, let alone what it would be or if it would be bigger or smaller if benefit 
levels were changed.  So whilst Mr G has been  frustrated  at not receiving an answer to this 
question, he hasnt been disadvantaged by that. That said, it would have been helpful if 
Aviva had simply explained that it couldnt give a definitive answer because of the nature of 
such bonuses.
Mr G has said the lack of information  stopped him being able to make decisions about what 
to do with the policy and that he couldnt take advice about what to do either. Whilst I can 
understand that he would  have wanted  to have as much information available as possible 
where he to approach a financial adviser  for assistance, I dont think  the lack of, or poor 
responses from Aviva would have prevented a qualified financial adviser  from assisting him. 
Mr G has said that when  all of the issues he has experienced with his policy  are taken into 
account the £150 Aviva has offered him is insufficient. However,  as I have said above, I am 
only considering  the 2017/2018  service  issues.  Having done so, I am satisfied the sum 
offered is sufficient to compensate for the issues Mr G experienced.
Aviva confirmed it had received my provisional  decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr G didnt accept my conclusions, provided further  comment and two documents. The first 
document being a page from a quote from 2013 for a protection policy and the second  a 
page from a yearly statement for 2017  showing what the policy  was projected to be worth at 
the end of the funding  term. The latter detailing the target amount of the policy as £136,800.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Gs recent 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Mr Gs response to my provisional decision discusses events that happened  outside 
of the complaint I am considering, including the information and advice from the point of sale 
and administrative events  from prior to 2017.  As I said in my provisional  decision, these are 
not matters I can consider  in this decision as Aviva  is not responsible for the sales  process 
Ref: DRN20325476and the earlier administrative matters were not subject  to the complaint Mr G made to Aviva  
and subsequently asked us to consider.  
Mr G has also indicated that he considers the information provided  by Aviva in its annual 
statement is inadequate. Again, this isnt something  that he has previously raised and so not 
something I will comment on. However, what I would clarify  in relation to this document  is 
that when the annual  statement details  the level of cover being provided as £136,800 it is 
referring to the amount of protection  benefits being provided and the target for the policy,  not 
its projected maturity value.
I would also reiterate that by 2017  the alterations  Mr G was considering,  in relation to 
changing benefit levels, was not an option  Aviva would allow.  As such, Aviva could not 
provide information  about how such changes would affect the policy and its maturity value as 
they couldnt happen. Whilst Mr G doesnt  believe what Aviva  has said,  it isnt unusual for life 
assurance companies to decline to allow  changes  to policies  in the last ten years because of 
potential compliance  issues with HMRC rules  and resultant tax bills for policyholders.
I have noted what  Mr G has said about  a conversation he had with HMRC, however, as I 
was not a party to that conversation, and it has not provided confirmation in writing, I cant  
comment further. What I would say is that significant changes to a policy in the later years 
can cause compliance  issues with the qualifying  rules which can then result in a tax liability 
at maturity. Given such changes are not something  the terms and conditions allow, and if 
they are at any point  it is at Avivas discretion, it isnt unreasonable  for Aviva not to allow 
them when they could be to the policyholders  detriment. As for the re-projection  letters  
recommending an increase  in premium, the letters didnt recommend any particular course  
of action. They gave  suggestions about  possible  options to deal with the shortfall. It doesnt 
mean that all the options are available in all circumstances and it would be at the discretion 
of the policy  provider as to whether a premium increase would be allowed. 
Mr G has included a list of information  and documentation he wants in resolution of his 
complaint. However,  that list includes information that he has been given, or that Aviva 
doesnt have and information  that he cant have as certain alterations to the policy are no 
longer possible.  I dont  intend to ask Aviva to respond further to Mr Gs questions about  
these matters. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr G, but I have not been persuaded to alter my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before 
14 March 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2032547