K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that J.S. Financial  Advice Service Limited inappropriately advised him to 
transfer his existing low risk pension fund to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension)  and 
invest in two high risk unregulated investments. He says the firm failed in its duty of care 
towards him by not apprising him fully of the risks.  And as an unsophisticated, retail client he 
wasnt a suitable  prospect  for this type of investment.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the adjudicator in her assessment. But in 
summary, in 2011 Mr R attended a property investment seminar.  Following a discussion with 
one of the representatives he became interested in investing in a Harlequin property scheme 
and a property  scheme  in Cyprus (Rimondi Grande). Mr Rs existing pension didnt permit 
investments in the two schemes.  So he approached JS Financial  for help.
Mr R told JS Financial  that he wanted  to invest in both the Harlequin and the Cyprus  
property ventures. And he wanted  to transfer  his existing pension to a SIPP  to enable their 
purchase. JS Financial indicated to Mr R that it would  be very difficult to arrange such a 
transfer as most SIPP providers were reluctant to accept these investments. However 
through his own research  Mr R found a willing provider and JS Financial arranged the 
transfer for him. A sum of £55,746 was transferred to the new SIPP.  In October  2011  an 
investment of £33,500 was made  into Harlequin and €13,165 into the Rimondi Grande 
(Cyprus) investment.
The Harlequin scheme subsequently  went into administration and the SIPP  provider gave it 
a notional £1 value.  Mr R later made  a complaint  to JS Financial and, unhappy  with its 
response he referred the matter to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She didnt think that it should  be upheld.  
She noted that J S Financial had said it had known Mr R for at least  25 years and that he 
had worked in the financial services  industry. The adjudicator concluded that although Mr R 
wasnt currently involved in the pensions and investment field, the evidence suggested hed  
had experience of these  areas in the past.
The adjudicator also thought the evidence showed  that checks  had been carried  out to 
ensure that the investments were appropriate for Mr R; both in terms of his attitude to risk 
and his knowledge experience and understanding of the risks involved in the proposed 
investments. 
She also thought  that it was evident from the content of a series of e-mails exchanged 
between Mr R and the firm that Mr R understood the prospective  investments. And that he 
intended to invest  in the two investments despite  the risks. The adjudicator  noted that 
despite JS Financial  making it clear that most  SIPP  providers didnt want  to get involved in 
these investments Mr R was keen to proceed. When the adviser was showing signs  of being 
unable to find a suitable SIPP provider, Mr R had carried  out some research of his own and 
alerted the adviser of potential SIPP providers.  She thought the e-mails showed Mr R was 
the driving force behind the investments and had already made his decision to invest  before 
seeking JS Financials  assistance. 
Ref: DRN21127282The adjudicator thought  that although  Mr R may have needed JS Financial to carry out the 
pension transfer  he didnt require financial advice. She thought the evidence  suggested that 
the transaction was carried out on a non-advised, execution-only  basis.
Mr R had signed Appropriateness Test forms for each investment. These recorded that he 
had received no advice, understood the risks involved and accepted  them. And this was 
consistent with a letter from Mr R to JS Financial saying he had instructed it to make  the 
transfer because  his existing SIPP wouldnt permit the investments. The adjudicator  thought 
that Mr R was an experienced investor who understood  the risks involved. And, taking 
everything into account, it was likely that Mr R would have made  the two investments  even  if 
the firm had advised him against doing  so.
The adjudicator therefore didnt think that Mr Rs complaint should  be upheld. 
Mr R didnt accept the adjudicators findings. And he asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, and largely  for the same reasons. 
I think whats key here is that this wasnt a transfer from a defined  benefit scheme. It didnt  
involve the more complex issues  presented  by the loss of certain  guaranteed  benefits that 
members of those schemes  can lose on transfer.  The underlying risks of this transaction  
included the charges and costs involved. But the most significant risk was the investment 
risks presented by the Harlequin and Rimondi  Grande  investments.  
The correspondence between  Mr R and the firm shows  that Mr R raised several  specific 
queries about  different aspects of the transaction including about  the costs  and charges. It 
also shows he was aware of and willing to accept  the significant  risks that the two 
investments presented. 
Whilst I think execution only type transactions need to be treated with some  caution, like the 
adjudicator, Im not persuaded the firm gave advice to Mr R or that he was expecting or 
relied on it. 
On the one hand the SIPP application  form recorded  JS Financials details under Financial 
Adviser. And a box was ticked saying  it was an advised sale.  However on the other, the box 
was ticked on the Appropriateness Test form for Harlequin to say that Mr R had not received 
advice on the investment,  and he was classed as an execution only customer.  On the 
Appropriateness Test forms  for both Harlequin  and Rimondi Grande the boxes were ticked  
to say Mr R hadnt received advice from a regulated independent adviser. 
Whilst I accept  there were some  inconsistencies in the documentation, Mr R wrote to the firm 
on 28 August 2011 and said, amongst other things:
This application is being under my specific instructions and that I did not receive  any advice 
with regards to the investments being  made  under this SIPP.
Ref: DRN21127283I think given Mr Rs background and experience he would likely have realised the meaning 
and significance of what he was saying in this letter.  And I think  this is consistent with the 
other e-mails  he sent to the firm in connection with the transaction.  On balance, looking at 
the documentation in the whole and taking the surrounding circumstances into account, Im 
satisfied Mr R wasnt relying on JS Financial to provide advice.
Overall therefore, Im satisfied that Mr R was in a position to make  an informed decision 
about the transaction and that it was his own decision  to transfer  and invest in the Harlequin 
and Rimondi Grande  investments. In the particular circumstances here,  Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair and reasonable to hold JS Financial liable for any the losses that flowed 
from the transfer and investments into Harlequin and Rimondi Grande.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112728