K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited  unfairly refused their home  
insurance claim. 
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their Lloyds  home  insurance policy.  Pipes 
had been leaking. Water  had escaped. This caused  damage to a few different rooms. 
Lloyds sent a contractor to inspect the damage. It felt it had had happened  gradually  over 
many months at least. It said damage caused gradually was excluded by Mr and Mrs Ws 
policy. So it refused to pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs W complained but Lloyds still refused their claim.  But it paid them £50 
compensation to recognise how long it took to consider what they said about the claim.  
Our investigator felt Lloyds could fairly  rely on the exclusion to refuse  the claim. So she 
didnt ask it to pay the claim or do anything differently. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept that. 
Because of that the complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Lloyds  
pay the claim or do anything differently.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy covers them for loss or damage caused by escape of water  from 
domestic water installations. The damage was caused by water  leaking from supply pipes in 
their home.
But the policy excludes loss or damage caused by a gradually operating cause. It defines 
this as something that happens gradually  over a period of time. It gives examples of 
corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition. This sort of exclusion is common in 
home insurance policies.  Having  looked at the available information, Lloyds decision to rely 
on it to refuse the claim is fair and reasonable.
Lloyds has pointed to water damage  high up the walls. Its highlighted paint blistering and 
skirting boards being rotten. Lloyds say this type of damage happens  over months,  if not 
years. Photos of the property support what Lloyds says. The paint on non-tiled  walls is badly 
damaged at heights of more than a meter from the floor. Skirting boards are rotting  and 
showing rust stains from nails.  It doesnt  look like damage thats likely to have happened 
over a short time.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W say about the matter  including  his profession,  a 
previous leak and a plumber  not noticing a problem a few months  earlier. But overall  I think 
Lloyds decision that the damage  occurred over a number of months, at least,  seems  fair and 
reasonable.    
Sometimes, when damage has occurred  gradually,  this service says its not fair for an 
insurer to rely on such an exclusion to refuse a claim. We might  say that if we think the 
Ref: DRN26892782policyholder shouldnt reasonably have been aware  the damage was happening gradually  
and that they made a claim as soon  as they did become  aware.    
Lloyds says the damage was at eye and floor level. It feels  the property would have smelt 
damp. So it feels Mr and Mrs W should have  been aware of the damage occurring gradually. 
I dont know if the property would have smelt of damp. But I agree the damage  probably was 
visible. 
Again Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W say about not being aware of it. I accept that they 
reported it as soon as they noticed. But from what Ive seen, including  the severity  and 
location of the damage shown in the photos, I think they should have been  aware  of the 
damage much earlier than they were.      
So overall its fair and reasonable  for Lloyds to rely on the gradually occurring exclusion to 
refuse Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited pay 
Mr and Mrs Ws claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2689278