K821x#15complaint
Ms B complained, on behalf  of her fathers estate,  about the level of service  she received 
from Barclays Bank Plc whilst dealing with his estate.  She wants  it to correct  the outstanding 
errors and pay adequate  compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused.  She also wants  it 
to put in place proper  systems to prevent other bereaved consumers experiencing similar 
issues.
background
In September  2018 Ms B sought  guidance from Barclays Bereavement Team  and then sent 
in all the necessary  documents but heard nothing from it. When  she chased Barclays up a 
month later it said it hadnt received the documents and they must have got lost in the post. 
Ms B pointed out that she had sent them recorded delivery and they had been signed  for. 
Some days later a different Barclays team managed to locate them.
Ms B subsequently complained about what she called a catalogue of errors   including  the 
loss of sensitive  documents, undue delays, receiving several letters addressed to her late 
father even  after bringing this error  to Barclays attention,  and misinformation relating to her 
mothers share account.
Barclays upheld Ms Bs complaint and agreed to pay 8% interest on the sum in Mr Bs 
account of £8,732.69 to cover the initial period  of delay between 4 September  and 15 
October 2018. It said that this figure came to £78.49. It said it was required to deduct 20% 
tax from this, which it would pay to HMRC, so would pay £62.49.  It also agreed to pay 8% 
interest on the same account balance to cover  the additional IT-related delay from 12 
November to 14 December. This came  to £61.50 and, after deduction  of tax, it would 
therefore pay her £49.20.  It said there  had been a balance of the account of £16.11  which 
had paid into the incorrect account so this was also due to be paid once Ms B confirmed the 
correct account. It also offered £350  for the trouble and upset caused.
An adjudicator at this service  felt Barclays should  instead pay £500 given the very 
considerable trouble and upset Barclays had caused.  She felt that its cumulative errors  
would have impacted Ms B greatly  considering she had been recently bereaved  and was 
dealing with her late fathers affairs in addition  to becoming the Power of Attorney for her 
mother who was suffering from ill health. She said it was also likely that she would have 
been dealing  with numerous  other agencies at the same time.
Barclays did not agree, saying  it had worked  hard to rectify  its errors and £350 was 
adequate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
The purpose of trouble  and upset awards  is to offer compensation for the actual  distress  
and inconvenience  caused to the specific individual/s  given  their particular circumstances 
and the facts of the case. Its clear  that Ms B wouldve been facing considerable stress 
dealing with a variety of time-consuming and difficult administrative  challenges  during the 
Ref: DRN28572402period in question. So I have no doubt  that Barclays repeated  errors would have caused her 
very significant upset.
So whether  Barclays  worked hard  to rectify the errors, or not, is only one factor in 
assessing the degree of upset caused  by what I agree was a catalogue of failures.  I also 
note it was still making new errors as recently as March  of this year (2019).
Given the facts of this case I am satisfied that £500 is a fair sum,  and I instruct it to pay this.
Barclays must also pay the 8% compensation it has already  offered to cover the two 
separate delays,  and for the periods it identified. But as it has still not paid these sums or the 
£16.11 it must also add interest on all these sums at 8% simple  per annum up to the date of 
settlement of this complaint. This means it must add 8% interest to the £78.49 sum from 15 
October to the date of settlement; the same  8% interest to the £61.50 from 15 December 
2018 to the date of settlement, and also to the £16.11 to the same end date. It should then 
deduct 20% tax, and report  this to HMRC, before paying the amounts in question.
If this proves  unnecessarily complicated, I will accept  if it simply pays an additional  £25 (£20 
after tax with £5 being paid directly to HMRC)  to cover all these amounts.
Finally, I note that Ms B recently  forwarded information about a complaint she made in early  
2018 in relation to securing Power of Attorney on behalf of her mother. I have not considered  
this issue and the £500 does not include anything to cover  this potential issue. So Ms B 
would be entitled  to pursue this issue further with Barclays,  if she has not done  so already, 
and bring the matter  to this service if she remains unhappy with its response.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank Plc to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr B, to accept or reject my decision before  2 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2857240