K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs V took out on the advice 
of Key Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS)  in late 2014, jointly  with her husband. Following  
his death, the mortgage  is now in the sole name of Mrs V. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented,  using my own words to do so. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs V when my decision is 
published. 
In 2014, Mrs V and her late husband took out a lifetime mortgage of £225,000 (including 
fees) with a further drawdown  reserve of £35,000, on advice from KRS.  The terms of the 
mortgage provide  that no monthly  repayments  are required. The mortgage is only due to be 
repaid when the last surviving borrower  sells the property voluntarily, goes into full-time 
nursing care or after their death.  Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding 
balance, and is compounded. This means  that if the loan runs for a number of years, there  
can be a significant  balance to be repaid.
The basis  of Mrs Vs complaint is that the mortgage was unsuitable and based on an 
inaccurate assessment  of her and Mr Vs wider financial position at the time.  KRS rejected 
the complaint,  prompting Mrs V to refer it to us. Our investigator didnt think KRS had done  
anything wrong. Mrs V has asked that the complaint be reviewed an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes  between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts.  
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
Ref: DRN24278562and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2014.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; that notion  forms much of Mrs Vs argument. 
Where the consumers have signed to confirm that the information  is accurate, well generally 
attach some weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good  faith,  can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. 
In the case at hand, KRS hasnt retained  a copy of the fact-find  or suitability  letter bearing 
the signatures of Mr and Mrs V. So I have to decide  if I can still attach the same weight as I 
would if I had seen  a signed  declaration confirming the information to be correct. Its a fine 
judgement, but Ive decided that its safe for me to do that. 
Thats because Mr and Mrs V signed  the application form for the equity release mortgage 
after KRS had sent them the suitability  letter  containing the information that Mrs V is now 
seeking to challenge. They also signed the legal charge  and solicitors  certificate;  Ill return  to 
the relevance of the latter item in due course.
I appreciate Mrs V has concerns about the accuracy  of the information, but the fact is that 
Mr V gave the information to KRS on behalf of both of them,  and they subsequently applied  
jointly for the mortgage. Overall, Im persuaded KRS was entitled to take what Mr V said on 
face value, about their financial  needs  and circumstances  as they stood in 2014. 
Mr V told KRS that he and Mrs V had specific financial objectives, which I summarise below:
guaranteed  cash reserve  shortfall   £20,000 
new bathroom   £20,000 
new roof   £15,500 
gift to LV (one of their sons)   £25,000 
repav existing mortgage £140,000.
The fact-find records that Mr and Mrs V had specific spending plans. It also recorded  that 
they had a combined share portfolio of £160,000 which they didnt wish to disturb. That left 
about £5,000 accessible in an emergency. So it seems to me that a mortgage of some  sort 
or another  wasnt  necessarily unsuitable or inappropriate, to meet  the stated objectives. 
So Ive next considered whether something  other  than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better  option. Mr and Mrs V were on a monthly  income of £6,000  but specifically said they 
didnt want a monthly mortgage commitment.  This, combined with my earlier  finding  that 
theyd decided some  borrowing  was necessary to finance their plans, meant that equity 
Ref: DRN24278563release was probably the only viable option for Mr and Mrs V, given their stated 
circumstances, intentions  and the preferences theyd expressed.
Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition  after the mortgage was 
arranged doesnt  affect the suitability or otherwise  of the advice given. Also, KRS had no 
obligation to provide separate  advice to either of Mr and Mrs Vs sons. Its duty was solely to 
advise its clients.
Mrs V says the transaction has replaced a mortgage  of £140,000 with one that could rise to 
as much as £1.3m.  Its normal  for interest to roll up on a lifetime mortgage, and then to 
attract further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in 
monetary terms in the point-of-sale material. 
Ive seen the illustration  for the mortgage; it uses an assumption that the mortgage will last 
for 32 years, but it includes a narrative pointing  out this assumption and reminding the 
reader of the lifetime  nature of the mortgage. I cant  know how much  of the information 
Mrs V and/or her late husband assimilated. But the documents presented the information in 
a format that was consistent with the requirements  set by the FCA. 
Lastly, before they took out the mortgage in 2014  Mr and Mrs V were required to have 
independent legal advice from a solicitor.  The solicitor confirmed to KRS that shed 
explained the terms of the mortgage to Mr and Mrs V. I think  that if the solicitor had had any 
concerns that Mr and Mrs V didnt understand the nature and effect  of what  they were 
signing, they wouldnt have been advised  to proceed with it.
Mrs V has spoken with remarkable frankness about the issues  she discovered about Mr Vs 
financial situation after he died.  Ive read what shes said very carefully, and its quite 
apparent that Mrs V has had to address some extremely challenging problems. Im not 
unsympathetic towards her, but I have to decide this complaint  by reference to what  KRS 
was told in 2014. For the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded the mortgage was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN24278564my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2427856