K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that their claim for damage to their garden wall was declined  by 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited.
background
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs S noticed  damage to their wall following a storm. They believe 
the bushes next to the wall had been blown against  the wall repeatedly and the constant  
battering had caused  the wall to snap in places and lean over at a dangerous angle. They  
made a claim to Lloyds.
Lloyds arranged for the damage to be assessed  by its surveyors. The report  noted that the 
wall had been pushed  back by the trees and there were some cracks to the wall, which  was 
in a dangerous condition.  The photographs showed  a long single  thickness brick  wall with a 
pier at both ends and two more in between. The two middle piers were leaning  outward as 
was the wall they supported. The surveyor accepted  the claim on 28 March 2019  and a cash  
settlement was discussed.
The surveyor subsequently examined  a photograph  of the wall taken in 2009. This 
photograph showed the end of the wall toward the front of the property  including two piers;  
the internal pier was clearly leaning outward and there was a gap between the wall and the 
pier at the top. In light of this evidence  of the wall being in poor condition ten years before 
the claim,  the surveyor contacted Mr and Mrs S to confirm the claim was being declined  as it 
now didnt think the damage to the wall had been  caused by the recent  storm, but rather it 
had highlighted  an existing problem with wall. This was a few days  after the claim had been 
accepted.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  that Lloyds had changed its mind about their claim and 
complained. Lloyds considered Mr and Mrs S complaint and it partially upheld  it. It said the 
claim decision was correct and didnt change it. However, it acknowledged it had raised 
Mr and Mrs S expectations by initially accepting the claim. It paid £100 into their bank 
account as compensation for the poor service they had received.
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to this service. One of our investigators discussed the 
circumstances of the claim with Mr S. He said the damage had been caused by the plants  in 
his garden hitting the wall during a storm and that this type of thing had been occurring and 
causing damage for around four years. He acknowledged the wall had always leaned over 
slightly, but said it had only cracked recently,  which is what  led to the claim being made.
Having reviewed all of the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds, our investigator  
didnt think Lloyds had been wrong to decline the claim. She considered the upset  Lloyds 
changing its decision about the claim would  have caused Mr and Mrs S, but thought the 
£100 was fair compensation. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view and asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28299522Insurance policies  dont  cover all things that can go wrong with a property. In the case of 
Mr and Mrs S policy, it is set up on what is called a perils basis.  This means that the policy 
only provides cover  for damage  caused  by a number of specified events or perils, such  as 
storm or escape of water. For there to be a valid claim there  has to have been  an 
identifiable, one-off  event  from the list of perils,  which then causes  damage.
There are then also exclusions  that apply to either the entire  policy or specific  perils which 
can limit cover. One of these is that the policy doesnt cover damage  that occurs  gradually 
over time.
Having considered the photographs from 2009 I have to accept the wall was leaning  outward 
long before the claim was made  and possibly before Mr and Mrs S owned the house. Whilst 
I accept the damage  may have become worse during  the storm that happened just before 
claim was made, I think Lloyds is right when  it says the storm wasnt the cause of the 
damage, but rather it just highlighted the existing problem  with the wall.
Mr and Mrs S have  said the problem with the wall happened because the trees/shrubs inside 
their garden would hit the wall repeatedly  during periods of high winds.  This had been  
happening for many years  and the claim  had been made because the wall had cracked.  As 
the damage was caused by multiple  events over a long period of time, this would again 
indicate it wasnt a claim the policy would cover.
Overall, I am satisfied Lloyds acted  reasonably  when it declined the claim.
I can understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs S would  have  been  when Lloyds  corrected 
its mistake of telling  them  the claim would be paid.  It is reasonable that they should be 
compensated for having their expectations  raised, even for a short  period of time, but I think  
the sum Lloyds has already paid is appropriate in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 19 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2829952