K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) wouldnt fix his boiler  because  
a spare  part was declared to be obsolete, and misled him into believing that the boiler  
remained covered  under his HomeCare policy when it wasnt.
I issued a provisional decision in this case and received responses from BG and Mr H which  
Ive taken into consideration.
background
Mr H owns a number of properties which are covered by a multi-property HomeCare policy  
with BG. The policy year runs from 5 May to 4 May the following  year.  Each year a gas 
safety check is carried out.
On 24 May 2018, an engineer visited one of Mr Hs properties to carry out a check  on the 
boiler. It appears from BGs records that the boiler had been installed in 1984.  BG had 
covered it since 2009. BG reported  back on 28 May to state that the boiler  wasn't safe. The 
reason given was that a replacement part was needed but this part was obsolete.  Mr H was 
advised that his boiler  would need  to be replaced,  and he was given a quote  of £3,744.52 for 
this.
Concerned about  this high cost, Mr H contacted an independent engineer who was able to 
source the replacement  part easily and fixed the boiler within  8 minutes.  The cost for this 
came to £134.40. 
Mr H raised a complaint  with BG. It informed  him that the complaint would be escalated  once 
it had received a copy of the invoice for £134  40. This invoice wasnt  sent to BG, so Mr Hs 
complaint was escalated, resolved and closed.
BG sent Mr H an email on 30 May 2018 informing him that because his boiler had been 
repaired by a third party,  it was being  removed  from cover. This was followed by a letter 
dated 31 May which also informed him that central  heating cover for this property was 
cancelled. BG also sent Mr H a final response  letter in relation to his complaint on 27 June in 
which it again informed  Mr H that his boiler was no longer covered. 
Mr H says he wasnt informed about the cancellation  of cover. He says that the contact 
details BT had been using for him were  11 years out of date.  
On 3 December  2018, Mr H received a call from his tenant at the same property to say the 
boilers pilot light had gone out. A member  of Mr Hs staff contacted BG to ask if the boiler  
was still covered as it had been repaired following the breakdown  in May.  She says BG 
confirmed to her that it was, and that it would  send out an engineer. When  BGs  engineer  
arrived he informed Mr Hs tenant that cover had been cancelled and he couldn't do a repair.  
Mr H then called out the same  independent engineer that hed used previously and he was 
able to replace  the pump and get the boiler working  again within  20 minutes. The cost of this 
was £217.78.
Mr H complained to BG that it hadnt informed  him that central  heating  cover for this property  
had been cancelled in May and that there had been  no cover in place from that time despite 
it having been confirmed on 3 December  that the boiler was still covered. He also wasnt 
Ref: DRN23510412happy that hed had to pay an independent engineer to carry out work he expected would be 
covered by his policy. 
 
Hes also unhappy that he had to pay for his boiler  to be repaired by an independent  
engineer in May as BG wouldnt do so because a part was obsolete.  Mr H says that he was 
told by BG on 3 December that it uses the term 'obsolete' if it cant access  parts  from its own 
suppliers, not that the part is in fact obsolete and no longer  in production  or existent. It says 
it would  try 10 local suppliers to try to get a part before declaring it obsolete. However  Mr H 
says his engineer  accessed the necessary part and had no difficulty in doing so.
Mr H says BG told him it wont  re-open  his original complaint and referred him to this service.
BG says it hasnt breached any of its terms and conditions. Its explained that its subject to 
tight regulations  and that this often  means a third party engineer will be in a position to repair 
a boiler when BG cant because of its regulations. It says it explained to Mr H that he didnt 
have to accept  its quote for a new boiler. He could have a new boiler installed either with or 
without BG, or he could  have his boiler  repaired by a third party  engineer. But as it doesnt 
cover third party work it wouldnt then be able to continue  to cover this boiler.  
BG has accepted that Mr H was misadvised when he was told on 3 December 2018 that the 
boiler at this property  was still covered.   Its explained that an engineer  was sent on this 
second occasion because it had been advised  that there was a medically  vulnerable person 
in the property. But the engineer then realised  that parts needed were obsolete. BG says Mr 
H wasnt charged for this call out, but says he shouldve been aware from May 2018  that the 
property wasnt covered despite which he still tried to make  a claim. It says this claim 
shouldve been  rejected  from the moment he phoned BG. 
BG offered a goodwill  gesture  of £30 for the unproductive visit, and then increased this to 
£50 to take into account the incorrect advice it had provided. Mr H doesnt consider that this 
is sufficient, and referred his complaint to this service. He says he wants BG to acknowledge 
that errors  have been made  and to compensate him to the value of the repairs that had to be 
undertaken by an independent engineer. 
Our investigator considered the various  areas in which Mr H expressed dissatisfaction  about  
BGs service. She considered that BG had misinformed Mr H that his boiler remained 
covered when he telephoned on 3 December, and her view was that it would be fair for BG 
to pay Mr H £100 compensation  for this. Mr H doesnt think this is sufficient compensation. 
BG thinks its excessive. Mr Hs complaint  has therefore been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr Hs complaint but 
to make a different  award to that suggested  by our investigator and Ill explain my reasons.
With regards to BGs failure to fix Mr Hs boiler in May 2018,  I dont think BG acted 
unreasonably here.  It says it couldnt  source the necessary part for the boiler which 
according to BGs records was 36 years old. I accept that Mr Hs independent engineer was 
able to find a part but I have no information as to where that part came from and how difficult 
it was to source, despite Mr H having  been asked  by our investigator  to provide this 
information. It is a term of Mr Hs policy that BG will source spare  parts from original 
Ref: DRN23510413manufacturers or its approved suppliers,  failing  which it may cancel the policy. I dont think 
its reasonable to expect  BG, with a large customer base, to state  how many suppliers it tried 
in order to obtain the necessary part for Mr Hs boiler.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr H stated that hed been misled by BG as to 
the need for a new boiler when this wasnt necessary because the part needed to repair his 
existing boiler was readily available. But as Mr H hadnt provided any information as to 
where his own engineer  had obtained the necessary part, and BG has explained that it 
hadnt been able to obtain one from one of its trusted suppliers, I cannot say that BG has 
acted unreasonably here.
Ive seen the email  that BG sent to Mr Hs business email  address on 30 May and the letter 
sent to him on 31 May informing him that because  a third party had undertaken work on his 
boiler, it could no longer  be covered  by his policy. The email and postal addresses match 
those on BGs records and also his details on his complaint form to this service.  Further,  in a 
telephone call with our investigator, one of Mr Hs staff confirmed that shed received the 
email of 30 May 2018.
So Im satisfied that Mr H shouldve been  aware from May 2018 that the central heating 
cover for the property  in question was no longer covered by his HomeCare policy.  
One of Mr Hs staff phoned BG on 3 December 2018 to ask if the property  was still covered 
as the fault in May had now been rectified.  She was told that it was. This was incorrect.   
Mr H says that the strain that this misleading information has caused both himself and his 
tenants has been huge. He says he was unaware that this property wasnt  covered by his 
HomeCare Agreement  and as such,  the tenant  was without  sufficient  cover  since May 2018. 
He says the only people aware of this were  BG, and that the damage caused, financially and 
emotionally, to all those  involved couldve been detrimental if anything  had happened during 
that time.
However, as Ive found that BG informed Mr H on a number of occasions  from 30 May 2018 
that the boiler at this property was no longer  covered, which  was confirmed by his staff,  Im 
not satisfied that BG has done  anything  substantially wrong.
In reliance on BGs confirmation on 3 December that the boiler was still covered, 
arrangements wouldve  been made with the tenant for the engineers visit, only for the 
engineer to say he couldnt do any work  on the boiler because  it wasnt  covered.  I expect 
this mightve caused some inconvenience for Mr Hs tenant. BG has offered £50 
compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the limited 
inconvenience caused.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr H also says that BGs approach to his 
complaint was relaxed and cavalier and that the treatment he, and he believes others, have 
received was wrong on every level.  He says he hoped that this service would take steps to 
penalize BG.
However it is not part of the role of this service to penalize businesses.  Financial awards  
against businesses  are intended to put customers back into the position they wouldve been 
in if things hadnt gone wrong, or to compensate them for trouble and upset they may have 
experienced. Ive accepted that Mr H suffered some  trouble and upset from the fact that BG 
Ref: DRN23510414provided misleading information in December 2018.  Im therefore requiring BG to pay him 
the £50 it originally offered to pay him to compensate him for this.
Im therefore  not proposing to ask BG to do anything more than to pay this sum to Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £50 compensation unless it has already done so.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay this sum within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351041