K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down their claim, after they 
had to cancel  their holiday when their son was diagnosed with a heart  condition.  
background
On 21 May 2018, when  Mr and Mrs Js son was seven weeks old, they took him to see their 
GP about  a tummy bug and a cold. The GP noticed  a heart  murmur  and, after getting a 
second opinion,  said that while it was common in babies and young children when they are 
unwell, they would refer him to a cardiologist. 
Mr and Mrs J booked a holiday on 27 May 2018  for a week in early September  2018. 
On 31 July 2018, the cardiologist found  that their son had a heart  condition   Mr and Mrs J 
were told hed need surgery and shouldnt travel. So the next day, Mr and Mrs J made a 
claim under the cancellation section of their travel insurance policy.  
On 23 August 2018, Mr and Mrs J called  UKI to check  on the progress  of their claim  they 
were told there wasnt a record of the information  theyd sent in. So they sent it in again, and 
after a request for further information, they were  told on 20 September 2018 that their claim 
settlement was waiting  authorisation.  On 3 October  2018, when Mr and Mrs J called again, 
UKI said their claim had been declined. That was because the medical  certificate, completed 
by Mr and Mrs Js GP, said that their son first presented with symptoms on 21 May 2018, 
and the trip was booked afterwards. 
Mr and Mrs J complained  about the decision, and the service they received. UKI replied and 
referred them to their policy booklet,  which  said they must tell UKI about  pre-existing  medical  
conditions, which includes any condition for which you are under investigation, awaiting 
diagnosis, receiving in-patient treatment or are waiting to receive treatment. UKI also 
apologised for the service  they received on a call. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs J brought the complaint to us. In summary, they 
said: 
Their sons heart  condition is congenital, so it was something he was born with, 
and therefore  shouldve been picked  up via ultrasound in the womb,  at birth or at 
his six-week check. 
They werent waiting  for a diagnosis  theyd been told it was an innocent 
murmur. And their GP confirmed that it wouldnt have been against medical 
advice to book  travel. 
The service they received from UKI was very poor, at a very stressful  time for the 
family. UKI lost their documents, gave them misleading information about  the 
claim settlement, and didnt understand the nature  of their sons  condition. 
On 3 July 2019 I sent a provisional  decision   I explained why I thought UKI applied the 
terms of the insurance  policy fairly  and so I didnt think it should pay Mr and Mrs Js claim. 
But I did think UKI should pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its 
handling of the claim.  
Mr and Mrs J didnt have anything further to add. UKI replied and suggested that £100 would 
be fair compensation. 
Ref: DRN26464212my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has said that £100 would be fair compensation  but its not said why thats  the case. 
And given  how UKI poorly managed Mr and Mrs Js expectations  over a long period of time 
 at a particularly distressing time for their family, Im satisfied £200 is a fair reflection  of the 
impact that UKIs actions  had. Given that neither  Mr and Mrs J nor UKI had anything further 
to add about the rest of my decision, I see no reason to depart from what I said. For 
completeness, Ive explained my reasoning again  below. 
Ive started by reviewing  the policys terms and conditions. No insurance covers  every 
eventuality  so this sets out what will and wont be covered in the agreement between  
Mr and Mrs J and UKI. 
On page 17, under Medical Statements , it says:
At the time of opening the account or before  you book a journey  (whichever is 
later): 
You much tell us about each pre-existing  medical condition for any insured person. 
If you do not tell us you may not be covered.  This is any medical condition  for which  you 
answer yes to one or more of the five questions below:
1)Are you under investigation, awaiting  diagnosis,  receiving  in-patient treatment or are 
waiting to receive treatment  
Ive considered whether these terms were adequately  drawn to Mr and Mrs Js attention,  and 
therefore whether  its fair for UKI to rely on them. While these details  are on page  17, theres 
a red box on page 2 of the policy, with a bold heading Booking a trip? . It says:  
Do you or anyone to be covered by this policy have  a medical condition that 
you need to cover  whilst on a trip? 
Make sure that you contact us before you book as this insurance automatically  
excludes cover for pre-existing medical conditions. Details  on how to do this and 
what we mean by a pre-existing medical condition  are on page 17. An additional 
premium may be payable or we may not be able to cover your pre-existing medical 
conditions(s)
There are further, similar reminders about  this on page 6, under Important Information, on 
page 12 under the Definitions, and on page  21 and 22 which describe the cancellation  
cover. So, while Mr and Mrs J might  not have  read the entire policy  booklet  in full, Im 
satisfied that there are clear terms, highlighted from the very beginning of their policy 
booklet, which set out their obligations when booking a trip. 
Ive gone on to consider whether UKI applied these  terms correctly   and so whether 
Mr and Mrs Js son had a pre-existing medical  condition. Mr and Mrs J say they werent 
awaiting a diagnosis  they had been told it was an innocent murmur, brought on by the 
tummy bug/cold.  But even if I accept that, I cant ignore that their son was ultimately referred 
to a cardiologist and, therefore, could reasonably be described as under investigation. 
Ref: DRN26464213I recognise that no-one, including their GP, expected their son to have a congenital heart 
condition  he was thriving and well, and it was thought this wouldve been picked up during 
previous check-ups. But the terms dont focus on the likelihood  that the investigation will lead 
to anything. But simply, that by making  a referral  to someone else with more expertise, it 
meant that they didnt have a conclusive answer  and he was therefore under  
investigation. 
In saying this, I appreciate  the GP told Mr and Mrs J not to worry, and has confirmed that 
they wouldnt have  advised against booking a trip. But their GP is giving their opinion  on the 
health of their child  they arent,  and indeed cant,  advise Mr and Mrs J on the likelihood  
that their insurance would cover them if they book  a trip and later have to cancel it. 
So Im satisfied that their son had a pre-existing medical condition, as defined by the terms 
of the policy. UKIs underwriters have confirmed that if Mr and Mrs J told it about this before  
they booked the trip, they wouldnt have  covered  him. So it follows  that I dont think  UKI 
should pay their cancellation claim. 
I know this will be very upsetting news for Mr and Mrs J, who understandably  feel strongly 
about this. And Ive natural empathy for what theyve been  through with their son  I cant 
imagine what a scary time this mustve been for the family. But that doesnt  mean  I could 
ignore the terms  of their insurance  policy.  And as Ive explained,  I dont think UKI applied 
these unfairly. 
Ive also considered the service Mr and Mrs J received through-out their claim. The family 
were going  through a very difficult time  so Ive thought about how UKIs handling might 
have exacerbated  that. It took some  time to give Mr and Mrs J an answer on the claim, and 
from the call notes Ive seen, they were the ones  to constantly chase UKI and, at times, they 
were given misleading information. So for the impact of this distress  and inconvenience,  I 
think UKI should pay Mr and Mrs J £200. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs J £200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2646421