K821x#15complaint
Mr O complained because Barclays Bank  UK PLC refused  to refund him for transactions  
which he said he didnt make.
background
At 14:18 on 16 April 2019, Mr O tried to withdraw £250 from a cash machine at a 
supermarket. He said he put in his card and entered his PIN. He said the machine made a 
noise for about  40 seconds, but didnt  return his card or dispense  the money. Mr O went  
inside the supermarket to report the issue, and was told to contact his bank.
Mr O didnt phone Barclays, but the records showed  he logged  into mobile banking during 
this time. Instead, Mr O went home. He later went to a branch where  he reported the lost 
card at 15:35. Mr O said he believed the cash  machine must  have  had a device to capture 
his card.
But in the meantime, Mr Os card had been  used. Four cash  withdrawals were  made.  These 
withdrawals all used Mr Os correct PIN. There were also several balance  enquiries, and two 
declined cash withdrawals  because  the account had reached its daily limit. By the time Mr O 
told Barclays and the card was stopped, £200  had been taken out, as well as the original 
disputed cash machine £250.  
Barclays initially gave Mr O a partial  refund while  it investigated. But when  it finished  
investigating, it said that it held Mr O responsible for all the disputed  transactions.  So it 
reclaimed the money  it had credited  to Mr O, saying  it had found no evidence to suggest that 
the transactions had arisen because  of third party involvement. Mr O had withdrawn the 
temporary credit of £250 shortly after Barclays had credited it. So reclaiming  the money took 
Mr Os account into unauthorised overdraft. Barclays restricted Mr Os access  to the 
account. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator partly upheld Mr Os complaint. She obtained more information about  the 
cash machine from the provider. The spreadsheet recorded at 14:19  Device  failure...card 
captured or jammed.  The cash machine  provider  said that if Barclays  sent a claim for the 
£250 it would refund the customer.  So the investigator said that Barclays  should refund the 
£250 disputed  cash withdrawal, and remove any negative markers  referred  to credit 
reference agencies.  And if it had applied any charges as a result of Mr Os account  going 
into unauthorised  overdraft, these should  be removed.
But the investigator didnt uphold Mr Os request for a refund for the other disputed 
transactions, totalling £200. She said that Mr O had been grossly negligent by not contacting 
Barclays immediately, especially as hed been logged onto his mobile  banking  at the time. If 
hed reported  it straightaway the other  disputed  transactions  might not have happened.  So 
the investigator considered Barclays didnt have to refund these transactions.
Mr O didnt accept this. He wanted  a full refund. He also asked if the investigators view 
meant that Barclays would open his account again and issue him with a new card.
Ref: DRN24041762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place on 16 April 2019  are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  The first stages is whether or not the payment  was 
authenticated  the technical part. In Mr Os case, they were. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, 
and the customer  is liable  if he did authorise  them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised  payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed  to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed  
gross  negligence.
£250 cash machine  withdrawal
Ive looked first at the disputed cash machine withdrawal at 14:18. There  are some 
inconsistencies in what happened here. Mr O said that the person in front of him told him 
there was something  wrong with the machine. But the cash machine shows  that the previous 
withdrawal had taken  place some 8 minutes earlier, and that there were no faulty  
transactions between  that and Mr Os transaction. This doesnt fit well with a person being 
immediately in front of Mr O in the queue. And if a card is retained, money wouldnt be 
dispensed and the customers account wouldnt be debited.  
However, the cash machine provider has said that it had a £250 surplus on that machine 
that day. It has said that if Barclays submits a claim, it will refund it for passing on to Mr Os 
account. In these circumstances, I consider it would be reasonable to ask Barclays to 
request a refund from the cash machine provider.  If it provides this, the £250 should be 
credited to Mr Os account  with any relevant  charges  removed from Mr Os account.
Other disputed transactions
Mr O didnt report a problem with the cash machine withdrawal at 14:18 until 15:35. He told 
the investigator that he thought he had to go to a Barclays branch, rather than reporting this 
by phone. I dont consider this is a reasonable argument. There  is plenty of publicity about 
how to report lost or stolen cards. In any case, it wouldnt have taken Mr O that long to go to 
a Barclays branch.
And most important of all, the mobile banking records show that Mr O was logged  on for 
most of this time. So he must have  seen the disputed transactions on his account. I also 
note that the disputed  transactions were all carried out with the correct PIN, with no failed 
PIN attempts. I find that even if Mr O didnt  carry out these transactions himself, he was 
grossly negligent.  I say that because if hed reported the cash machine problem 
straightaway, any later fraudulent transactions could  have been prevented. So I do not 
require Barclays to refund Mr O for these transactions.
Access to Mr Os account
Ref: DRN24041763As Ive set out above, Barclays put restrictions on Mr Os account, and one of the outcomes 
Mr O has requested in his complaint is that the bank should allow him to use the account 
again. Banks take their own decisions about customers, and are entitled to decide  to restrict 
facilities. They can also end a relationship, just as any customer  can decide  to close their 
account. So its up to Barclays to take its own decision about what  facilities  it will offer Mr O 
 in line with the terms and conditions  of his account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part:
-In view of the cash  machine providers statement that it is willing  to refund £250, I 
order Barclays Bank UK PLC to submit a claim to the cash machine provider. 
Assuming the provider sends the money, I order Barclays to credit  Mr Os account 
and remove any associated charges specifically related  to that £250  debit.
-I do not uphold  Mr Os complaint that Barclays should refund the subsequent 
disputed transactions  from 16 April 2019.
-I do not require  Barclays  to remove the restrictions it has placed  on Mr Os account. It 
is free to take its own decisions about  this, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2404176