K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the early repayment charge (ERC) applied to their mortgage. 
They say it was unfair of Santander UK Plc to apply the charge  of around £16,000 when they 
repaid their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B would like the ERC refunded to them.  
Mr Bs handled the complaint throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Santander. Over the years they borrowed more money, 
which was added as sub accounts or separate tranches of borrowing to their Santander 
mortgage.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs B applied for a further advance of £100,000 having  had 
advice from Santander.  The new loan was taken out on a fixed rate of interest of 1.99% until 
2 March 2021. At the same  time Mr and Mrs B arranged for the same 1.99% fixed  rate on 
another tranche of their mortgage. There was a 3% early repayment  charge (ERC) to pay if 
the parts of the mortgage covered  by the new rate of 1.99% were  repaid before 2 March  
2021.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs B repaid their mortgage having decided  to move to a different 
lender. Mr B says this was to save money  each month. Santander applied an ERC totalling 
around £16,000 when they repaid their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Santander. Mr B said it was unfair  that Santander had decided 
to apply the ERC in his case.  He said the adviser who sold him the further advance hadnt 
told him about an ERC. Santander didnt uphold the complaint saying  that it had been made 
clear to Mr and Mrs B in the mortgage  offer theyd accepted  that there was an ERC.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with Santanders  response and brought their complaint  to us. 
Mr Bs explained to us that he thinks it was unfair that Santander applied such  a high ERC 
when he repaid his mortgage. Mr B said hed been  confused as he had various tranches of 
mortgage borrowing  on different rates and terms. Mr B also said he felt there should have 
been a 14 day cooling off period for the rate and funds taken out in December 2018.  And Mr 
B said when he took out the further advance it wasnt made clear to him that there was an 
ERC. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened but he didnt uphold  the complaint.  
He thought the ERC had been fairly  applied.  Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our 
investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a borrower takes out a mortgage  or a further advance, its usual for them  to also take 
out an interest rate product for a fixed period (commonly two, three or five years). And its 
common for interest rate products to include an ERC if the mortgage is repaid before the 
rate has expired. This is typically to reflect  the costs incurred by the lender if the mortgage is 
repaid early.
Ref: DRN26632482Where borrowers have taken out further  borrowing over time, that can mean they have  
different interest  rate products on the separate parts of their mortgage  which  end on different 
dates. This was the case for Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. 
I can understand why Mr Bs said he found this confusing. Mortgage accounts can become 
complicated if there are several tranches of mortgage debt with different rate of interest and 
expiry dates. But I dont  think Santander did anything wrong by having a number  of sub 
accounts within Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage.  And it seems reasonable to me that Santander  
gave Mr and Mrs B access  to interest rate products it had available at the time when Mr and 
Mrs B chose to take out further  borrowing.
Mr Bs said it wasnt clear  that his further advance of £100,000 would have an ERC if he 
repaid it early.  Ive  listened to calls between Mr B and Santander  in November 2018 to get a 
sense of what was discussed at the time. During  these calls Santander advised Mr B about  
the further advance hed wanted and it arranged a new rate of 1.99% on two tranches of his 
mortgage. 
Im satisfied that the adviser clearly  explained the features of the further advance and the 
interest rate product  to Mr B. The adviser  also said in the call the fixed rate will have a 3% 
early repayment charge  for its duration so that will run until 2 March  2021. I think it was 
made clear to Mr B in the call with the adviser  that there would be an ERC on the borrowing 
once he took out the 1.99% interest  rate product. 
Mr B was asked whether  any changes were expected to his or Mrs Bs circumstances such 
as their income or expenditure and Mr B had answered no. There doesnt appear to have 
been any suggestion by Mr B that he wanted to explore what  products were  available  with 
other lenders or that he planned to remortgage  elsewhere or that he might  not need  the 
further loan.
Ive listened to the recommendation  made  by Santander and Im satisfied that it met Mr Bs 
stated objectives  at the time. The adviser  tried to help Mr B secure the additional  borrowing 
he wanted in a way that was affordable for him. Santander also arranged  for the 1.99% 
interest rate product  to be applied to a tranche of the existing  mortgage  that was soon to go 
back onto SVR. The adviser made sure Mr B would benefit from his existing rate, which  was 
slightly lower than the new rate, until it expired. Only then would the loan move to the new 
1.99% product in January 2019 to save Mr and Mrs B some money. 
Ive looked at the mortgage offers, and Im satisfied that they included clear information  
about the ERCs that would apply,  set out in the way required  by the regulator.  And, having  
reviewed the redemption statement, Im satisfied that the ERC has been calculated  fairly and 
in line with the terms of the offers.
Mr B complains there  should have been a cooling off period for the further  advance  and 
interest rate product  taken  out in December  2018.  I think there may be some  confusion 
about the 14 day period. Santanders adviser  explained that once the funds had completed 
Mr B would be emailed within 72 hours.  From  then he had up to 14 days to accept the new 
interest rate product  or his mortgage would stay on a reversionary rate. Once  the fixed  rate 
was accepted by Mr and Mrs B they would be locked into the new product. Mr B does seem  
to have considered  repaying the additional  £100,000  borrowed soon after the mortgage 
completed but ultimately he decided not to. Once  the fixed rate was accepted  by 
Ref: DRN26632483Mr and Mrs B, any repayment after that point  would have attracted the ERC. Im satisfied 
this was made reasonably clear to Mr B. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander gave Mr and Mrs B enough clear information about the 
ERC before the new interest rate product was entered  into.  
Mr B says he called  Santander  in early 2019  to ask about switching to interest  only 
payments. Mr B says he wasnt  told there was an ERC at that time. Santander has limited 
records about those  calls, so I cant be certain exactly what was said. However, in any case,  
there would be no obligation  on Santander  to give Mr B information  about the ERC in those 
calls unless he was planning  to repay  the mortgage or end an interest rate product early. In 
any event, even if the ERC wasnt mentioned  in the calls in early 2019,  I dont  think that 
changes the outcome to this complaint. 
Mr B had been given  clear information  before taking out a further  advance  of £100,000 on 
his mortgage and taking out a new interest  rate product  of 1.99%. I think Santander had 
done enough to make him aware  of the ERCs  that would  apply.  I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect  Santander to waive this part of the contract now because  Mr and Mrs B 
have chosen to remortgage  elsewhere.
Overall, for the reasons  Ive explained,  Im satisfied  that Santander has applied  the ERC  
fairly and in line with the terms of the mortgage  offers. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 November  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2663248