K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) didnt tell them that their current  
account was dormant before they made a large transfer from an overseas account.  They  say 
they suffered  financial loss as a result.  
background
Mr and Mrs M held a current  account with Bank of Scotland BOS. The last activity  on the 
account was in 2012.
Mr and Mrs M moved to New Zealand  for a few years. They  wrote  to 
BOS around October  2014 and asked if their current account was still open. 
BOS responded  in November 2014. It confirmed  that their current  account  was still open and 
said that it had updated their account  details to show their current address in New Zealand.  
BOS also included a brief account  statement  to show that the last transaction  
on Mr and Mrs Ms account  was in May 2012.
BOS records show  that in August 2015, it sent an automated letter  to Mr and Mrs M at their 
New Zealand address asking if they still wished to use their account. If so, they were 
expected to call BOS by 3 November 2015  otherwise  restrictions would be placed  on the 
account (and further transactions stopped) to guard against fraud. BOS made the account 
dormant around the same  time that it sent its letter. 
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs M asked their New Zealand bank to arrange a large international 
money transfer into their BOS account. The New Zealand bank attempted  this transfer, but it 
wasnt accepted  as the BOS account was dormant. The amount that the New Zealand  bank  
deposited back into Mr and Mrs Ms account was reduced by over £4,500 due to the 
differences in exchange rates when the funds  were converted back  to New Zealand  
currency. It later returned the rest of the funds into another of Mr and Mrs Ms UK accounts.
BOS closed Mr and Mrs Ms account  in late May 2018. 
Mr and Mrs M wrote to BOS in June 2018  to complain. They said that theyd been told their 
account was still open in 2014 and had they known that wasnt the case, they wouldnt have 
made a large  international transfer  from their New Zealand account. Mr and Mrs M said 
theyd suffered a large financial loss and stress as a result. 
BOS said it wrote to Mr and Mrs M in 2015. As Mr and Mrs M hadnt  made  contact, the 
account was made  dormant. BOS said it had no reason to believe Mr and Mrs M hadnt 
received its letter, as it hadnt  been  returned undelivered. BOS didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint and was satisfied it made  reasonable attempts to update them.  It also refunded  
the £20 administration fee that it charged  them  for returning the payment  to the New Zealand 
bank. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to our service, as they werent happy  with the response from 
BOS. 
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN22690872I sent Mr and Mrs M and BOS my provisional decision on 21 January 2020. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. Ive included the relevant sections of my 
reasoning below.
Its clear from what Mr and Mrs M said that this situation has been very stressful  for them. 
And they said that theyd never  have  attempted the overseas  transfer if theyd known that 
their BOS account was dormant. I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position.  But BOS says 
that it did write to Mr and Mrs M at their New Zealand address and, as the letter  wasnt  
returned undelivered, it said it had no reason to believe Mr and Mrs M hadnt received it.
Neither BOS or Mr and Mrs M have been  able to send me a copy  of a letter sent to BOS 
around October 2014. So, I cant say what prompted  their question about the status of their 
BOS account at that time and whether BOS  might have known why it was important for them 
to leave their account open. Mr M says that his local branch has a copy  of the letter, so I 
thought about whether I should ask for it now. But I dont think  its likely to make a difference. 
And thats because even  if BOS had known the reason that Mr and Mrs M wanted  to leave 
their account  open, I think its still likely that it would have written to them  to say that their 
account could  be made dormant  because  thered  been no activity. And, as Mr and Mrs M 
didnt receive the letter,  I think  the outcomes likely  to be the same. In any event, I can see 
that BOS answered  their question and confirmed that their account was open. Mr and Mrs M 
relied on the information given in 2014, as they were  entitled to do. 
Ive thought about whether BOS  could have done  anything more  at that stage.  BOS  says 
that there  was no requirement on its staff to do anything other  than answer a question  about 
whether the account was open.  And its staff did that. But the person responding also sent 
details of the last transaction in May 2012  and said that Mr and Mrs Ms address had been 
updated on BOS  system.  The fact that they pulled out information relating to the last 
transaction in May 2012 suggests that they could see that the account had been inactive for 
some time. Im inclined to think that, in light of that, it wouldnt have been unreasonable  in 
the circumstances for BOS staff to have also explained the potential risks to the account 
status if there was no activity on the account in the coming months. So, I do feel that BOS 
missed an opportunity here. But that doesnt  mean  that it did anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M 
appeared to have asked a straightforward  question and BOS gave them a factual reply. 
So, Ive next considered whether BOS  took reasonable steps after that to let Mr and Mrs M 
know that their account could be made  dormant. Ive seen a summary  of electronic letters 
sent to Mr and Mrs M, amongst which, was one sent in August 2015 about  account 
dormancy. Ive noted that the address used was the same as the one on the letter  in 
November 2014.  And it seems from the evidence that Mr and Mrs M were largely at the 
same address in New Zealand apart  from the last four weeks before they returned to the UK. 
So, Im satisfied from that evidence that BOS used the right address. Mr and Mrs M say that 
they didnt receive  BOSs  letter and I have no reason to doubt their version  of events. 
Keeping this account open was clearly  important to them and I believe theyre likely to have 
acted differently if theyd  known that their account could be made dormant.  
Its really unfortunate  that Mr and Mrs M didnt receive BOS letter.  Whilst I can appreciate 
why they feel that BOS  should be more supportive of their situation, I cant say that BOS is 
responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs M didnt receive its letter. The evidence  shows that 
BOS sent it, so Im satisfied that BOS  did what  was required. 
Given that, and, unless I receive  further  information  or evidence, Im unlikely to say that BOS  
should now refund the amount that Mr and Mrs M lost when the funds were  exchanged back 
Ref: DRN22690873into New Zealand currency. Ive noted though that BOS did refund the £20 administration 
charge that it made when it returned  the funds to the New Zealand bank. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs M are likely  to be unhappy  with my provisional decision, which Ive 
reached after very careful thought. In light of what Ive said,  Im unlikely to be upholding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
the response to my provisional  decision:
Neither BOS or Mr and Mrs M have responded to my provisional decision .
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst neither party  have responded, Ive again considered my provisional findings. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded to change  my mind about  the findings  Ive reached. I fully 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are likely  to be disappointed. But I do hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2269087