K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly refused to pay her claim for 
vet fees under her horse policy.
background
Mrs O insured her horse with SOL on 9 September 2017. She made a claim for vet fees in 
November 2017.  SOL said, as she didnt disclose her horse had problems before taking out 
the policy, it wouldnt pay her claim and it imposed an exclusion for pelvic  asymmetry,  the 
back and hind legs to from the time her policy started.
Mrs O complained but SOL didnt change its mind,  so she brought her complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt  think  SOL had done  anything  wrong. Mrs O didnt agree so her complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I do understand why Mrs O first engaged  the services of the physiotherapist when  she 
bought this horse in February 2016 and that she was thought  it was routine. And I 
understand the initial issue was caused  by an ill-fitting saddle. I also understand that many 
horse owners use the services of a physiotherapist routinely and that its good  horsemanship  
to do so.
But the report written  by the physiotherapist shows her treatment was much  more than 
routine. Initially the physiotherapist  thought the horse could only do ground  work to develop  
her posture  and top line with only occasional riding.  And it wasnt  until over a year later 
according to the physiotherapists  report that a ridden canter  was introduced.  I dont 
consider spending over a year working  on a horse under the guidance of a physio  with only 
occasional riding  and then ridden cantering only being introduced  over a year later to be 
just routine. This horse  sadly had problems  from an ill-fitting  saddle, which  took some time 
to work on. Thats not routine in my view.
The questions SOL required to be answered  before it could decide if it wanted to offer Mrs O 
a policy  were asked  by Mrs Os broker and Ive listen  to both call recordings. It appears Mrs 
O and this broker do business together for Mrs Os insurance on other  issues as well 
including a trailer.  But I agree with the investigator the questions asked were clear  about the 
horses health and Mrs O simply said routine physio. The questions  asked were open for 
enough for Mrs O to explain the details of her horse and the then resolving  problem with the 
ill-fitting saddle, but she didnt  explain anything, other than declaring routine physiotherapy.
That means SOL wasnt given the correct details  about Mrs Os horse. So I dont consider 
SOL did anything wrong in saying had it been  told of this less than routine physio work with 
the horse, it would not have offered Mrs O a policy free of exclusions as any such  policy  
does not provide cover for pre-existing  problems.  
Given the initial problems  noted by the physiotherapist in March  2016, I dont consider SOLs 
exclusion is too wide or excludes too much. The physiotherapist  noted the horse  had 
Ref: DRN29307342unbalanced dorsal and ventral  muscular chains. Her gait walking and trotting  was stiff and 
she was reluctant to lengthen her frame. The canter was two time and very unbalanced. 
Palpitation showed asymmetry in the pelvic region  with left tubae coxae being more ventral 
than the right. Since Mrs O worked hard with her horse following this, as evidenced from the 
rest of the physiotherapists  report, I consider she knew of the issues, which  should  have  
been explained to the broker  at the time of taking  this policy  out. 
I also think Mrs O had no intention of not answering these questions honestly but the fact 
remains that this horse did have  problems, which SOL needed  to know  about  before offering 
her the policy. The problem, which caused Mrs O to make a claim,  was discovered on the 
ridden canter.  Initially this horse also had an unbalanced canter  on the lunge.
Therefore I dont consider SOL had does anything wrong  by imposing this exclusion which 
excludes payment  of this claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2930734