K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unfairly turned down his
motor insurance claim and then disposed of his car without  his permission.
background
Mr P was involved  in an accident  after overtaking another vehicle.  He said the road was wet
and the back end slid as he accelerated to avoid a collision. His car was damaged  in the 
accident. The salvage agent  said the tread  on the cars tyres was below the legal limit, so 
Admiral asked an engineer to inspect the car. The engineer also said the tread on the rear 
tyres was below the legal  limit. Admiral asked  the engineer  to comment on whether the tread  
would have contributed to the accident.  Admiral ultimately turned down Mr Ps claim 
because it said the policy didnt cover losses caused by him not keeping  the car in a 
reasonable condition. It said a service  ten months previously had shown an amber warning 
on the tyre depth.  So, it thought Mr P should have been aware they were below the legal 
limit. 
Mr P was unhappy with Admirals decision as he didnt  think the tread  was below the legal
limit before the accident. He said his car had been  into the garage a number of times and
they hadnt mentioned the tyre depth. He thought  any issues  with the tread depth must have
been caused by the accident.
Mr P told Admiral  he wanted to appoint  his own engineer to inspect the car, so not to
dispose of it. However, Admiral sold the car for salvage and offered  Mr P the £1,267.50 it
received. Mr P said Admiral shouldnt have done  this as the car was his property. Admiral
accepted it had made an error in disposing  of the car. But said as the car was a category B
write-off Mr P would  need to have it broken by someone with a special licence. It offered him
£100 to compensate him for selling his car when it shouldnt have done.  Mr P said this
wasnt enough as hed seen parts of his car for sale online. He said he would have sold the
parts himself  and Admiral  disposing of his car had caused him a considerable financial loss.
Mr P was unhappy with Admirals response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator
thought it was most likely  the tread  depth on the tyres  had contributed to the accident. So, he
thought Admiral had fairly turned down Mr Ps claim. He also thought £100 was enough
compensation for Admiral to pay Mr P for disposing of his car, as he didnt  think  Mr P would
have been able to break  it for parts.
Mr P didnt agree. He appointed an engineer who reviewed the photos and said the tyres
were of a legal limit. When  this didnt change our investigators view Mr P asked for an
ombudsmans decision. In summary, he said:
The measurements taken by the salvage agent  and Admirals  engineer  cant  be 
relied on as theyre contradictory and the salvage  agents  report  doesnt  provide 
details of the person who took the readings.
His own measurements are consistently  higher than Admirals  engineers  and closer  
to the legal limits.
His engineer found  that his tyres were of the legal limit.
The service records provided  in the months  before the claim dont show  any mention 
of the tread being lower than legal  limits.
Reduction in the tread was caused by the accident.
Ref: DRN27567102Admirals engineer said in a call that he couldnt put in writing that the tread depth 
would have been a factor in the accident.
A second report by the engineer is contradictory, as it says the tread depth would 
have contributed to the accident, whereas the first report  says it could have 
contributed.
Admiral have committed fraud  and theft by disposing of his car.
He could have  asked a professional mechanic or salvage  agent to break the car for
            parts  for him. And it isnt accurate to say that its necessary to have a licence.
The car being recorded  as a category B write-off  ignores that the car was 
undervalued. If the correct value of the car had been reached he would have been 
able to challenge the salvage category.
He should  be paid the total retail value of the cars parts.
The car is rare and of sentimental value.
It doesnt seem fair that a contributory factor can lead to the claim being turned down, 
as this means its being treated as the cause rather than a contribution.
Mr P also provided a letter from a garage that said the garage would break the car into parts
for him and dispose of any waste.
Before reaching a provisional  decision  I asked  Admiral to consider the evidence  Mr P had
provided about the sale of his car. Mr P said this showed his car was sold to a salvage agent
and on to someone in a different county  who was selling the parts of the car. Our
investigator contacted  that seller who advised  that the engine  had been  sold but the rest of
the car was still available for sale for £3,500. I asked Admiral to consider either:
Buying and shipping the car back to Mr P, as well as making him a reasonable offer 
for the missing engine  and any other  parts that had been sold.
Paying Mr P the pre-accident market value of his car.
Make  Mr P a reasonable cash offer to compensate  him for the loss hes suffered  by 
not being able to sell the parts.
Admiral offered to pay Mr P £6,000 - as that was the amount the salvage agent had sold the
car on for - minus any third-party costs. Admiral made this offer because it thought Mr P
would most  likely have  sold his car as a whole rather than breaking it for parts.  Admiral  also
said Mr P hadnt raised this as a complaint point and only provided evidence of the parts  for
sale much  later.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October  2020, where I explained what 
I thought Admiral needed to do to put things right. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps made a number  of detailed points. I dont intend to address all of them  although Id
like to assure him that Ive considered them all. Instead Im going to focus  on what I see as
the central issues of this complaint. I dont  intend this as a discourtesy to Mr P, instead  it
reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps policy say that if he fails to protect his car from loss or
damage through its condition and that condition causes or contributes  to the loss, then he
wont be covered by the policy.  This means  that its for Admiral to show that its most  likely
the tread depth  on the tyres caused  or contributed to the accident.  Having  considered all the
Ref: DRN27567103available evidence I think Admiral has shown that its most likely. Ill now explain why.
The salvage  agent contacted Admiral and said the tread depth on both rear tyres was 0mm.
I appreciate Mr P would  like me to discount  this information but Im not going to. I say that
because I think this information was provided to indicate to Admiral that the tread depth was
lower than it should be and that might need looking  into further.
The first report  Admirals  engineer provided said that the tread on the rear tyres  was 1mm. In
that report the engineer said depending on the weather the tread depth could have made a
difference. I understand Mr P doesnt  think it can be accurate because both tyres  are
recorded as being 1mm which suggests  the measurements have been rounded.  But whether
the measurements have  been rounded up or down, this would still make them  under  the
legal requirement.
Ive listened to calls where Admiral  spoke to the engineers firm and asked them to confirm
whether the tyres would have contributed to the accident. In those calls the engineer  says he
cant say in writing that the tyres would have caused  the accident, although he says if the
road was wet then they would have been a contributing factor.
In the second  report  the engineer said that both rear tyres were below the legal requirements
with at least three quarters of the tyre being  below 1mm.  He said as the conditions  were wet
the condition of the tyres would have  contributed  to the accident. I think this is consistent
with the conversations  Admiral had with the engineering firm. The terms of the policy dont
require the tyres to have been  the cause of the accident, only a contributing factor.  And Im
satisfied that the engineer confirms this.
Due to the age of Mr Ps car there wasnt a MOT. But Admiral pointed  out that a service
carried out almost a year before had shown an amber warning. I appreciate Mr P has
provided evidence  to show that an amber warning  means the tread  was between 3mm and
5mm at that time. And that meant  he didnt need to have them changed immediately. But I
think this means he should  reasonably have been aware that the tyres were  worn.
Mr P has provided invoices showing recent work  carried out on his car. He says these show  
the tyres  cant have  been worn because it would  have been picked up by the garage. But the 
most recent ones seem to be for work  on specific parts of the car and not an overall service. 
So, these  dont persuade me that the tyres werent  below legal requirements. In addition to 
this, the measurements  Mr P took himself  show most areas of the tyres are below the legal 
requirement.
I understand Mr P thinks that any excessive wear  to the tyres must have been caused  by the
accident. Admirals engineer provided  further comments  to say the tyres were  already below
legal requirements  and the circumstances  of the accident wouldnt have contributed, Im
persuaded by what hes said because the measurements take account of the whole tyre and
not just the area in contact with the ground when they slid.
The engineer Mr P appointed reviewed the photos of the tyres and the assessment of 
Admirals engineer. He concluded that both tyres  looked to be well above the legal 
requirement at around 2mm. He said the wear indicators were clearly  visible  and the service 
documents supported the view that the tyres were within  legal limits at the point the car was 
serviced.
Mr Ps engineer also said there had been  heavy  skidding of the tyres  and this was supported
Ref: DRN27567104by the markings  on the tyres. He thought this would have impacted the tread in parts but
even with this impact the tyres were  over the legal  limit.
While Mr Ps engineer has given a detailed explanation as to why he thinks the tyre tread
was above the legal  requirement, Im more  persuaded  by Admirals engineer. This is
because he was able to take measurements  from the tyres. And these measurements are
generally supported  by those of the salvage  yard and Mr Ps own measurements. So, even if
Mr Ps engineer had physically inspected the tyres, it remains  that the other  measurements
provided are more in line with each other,  particularly when considering  that the service
almost a year before had indicated an amber warning.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that Admiral  disposed  of his car when  hed asked it not
to. I agree that as it wasnt paying  his claim,  then the car wasnt its property to dispose  of. Its
not my role to punish Admiral for this, instead  I need to consider the impact this had on Mr P
and whether it caused him a loss. I do think it caused him a loss by incorrectly disposing  of
his car and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, Im satisfied that Mr P raised  a complaint with Admiral  about it incorrectly  disposing of
his car. Admiral responded to that complaint in its final response letter dated 26 November
2018. While  Mr P might not have  sent Admiral  the further evidence showing his car for sale
Admiral had the opportunity to discuss this complaint further with him. instead it sent him its
final response on his complaint  which  resulted  in him bringing his complaint to us.
Mr P has provided photos and links to web pages that show his car being sold by the
salvage agent. Hes provided further  links to webpages that show  the car being sold for parts
by someone else. Mr P identified his car through the registration number and VIN number, I
havent seen any evidence to show this isnt Mr Ps car. So, on balance Im persuaded this
was Mr Ps car.
Mr P said if Admiral  had returned his car he would have broken it and sold the parts.  Hes
provided a letter from a garage  showing  that he would have been able to have the car
broken and the parts bagged, ready to be sold, for £1,794. Given  the loss Mr P suffered by
not having his claim  covered, I think he would have  looked  for the option  that would have
given him the greatest return.  So, while Admiral think its most likely Mr P would have  sold
the car as a whole, Im more persuaded he would have broken it for parts as hes said. So, I
dont think Admirals offer to pay Mr P £6,000 as the salvage value of the whole vehicle is
fair and reasonable.
Our investigator was able to establish  from the current owner  of the car that it was for sale
for £3,500, however this was without the engine  that had already been  sold. Our investigator
wasnt able to find out from the seller  how much the engine had sold for or the combined
value of the parts being sold individually. Mr P has listed the new price of each  part thats
advertised for sale which totals £51,663.97. However, I havent  seen any evidence to show
its most  likely the second-hand parts  would sell for the same amount as new ones. I
appreciate Mr P feels I should use the value of the new parts  because  Admiral fraudulently
sold his car, but as Ive said, my role here is to consider  Mr Ps loss as a result  of what
happened and not to punish Admiral.
Mr P has also made the point that his car depreciated by 22.57%  between  the time he
bought it and the date of the accident.  So, he suggests that this should be the maximum
depreciation applied to the parts, which would mean the total value of the parts  was
£40,003.41. Given that neither Mr P or Admiral  has provided me with anything  to show how
Ref: DRN27567105much the second-hand parts  would sell for, I think the principle of applying  the same
depreciation to the parts  as to the whole car would produce the most fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint.
Mr P and Admiral disagree  about  the value  of the car at the time of the accident. Mr P said
his car was worth £47,000 whereas Admiral valued the car at £42,250. Ive looked at
relevant trade guides to decide  which I think is more accurate. I generally find these
persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of prices. They also take account  of the
cars mileage and any extras on it.
The three guides Ive checked give values of £37,323, £43,920  and £46,151. The third
valuation is using a loss date of October 2018, as the guide  doesnt produce valuations  over
two years old. Using these valuations. Ive discounted the lower valuation  as its out of line
with the other two. I then think in this case its fair to take an average of the other two which
gives a value of £45,035.50.  I checked the value of the car in the third trade guide a few
months after October 2018 to take account  of the depreciation between July and October.
This shows that in that guide the value would likely have increased  to around £47,000 at the
time of the accident, this would mean Id then need to take account of the range  of values -
as theyre all equally spaced - which would still give me an average value of around
£45,000. So, Im going  to use the value of £45,035.50 when looking at the depreciation.
Mr P said he bought his car for £61,345. When using a value of £45,035.50  in July 2018  this
gives a depreciation of 26.6%. I think its fair to apply this to the value of the parts  Mr P has
provided as I havent seen anything from Admiral to persuade  me these arent  accurate
costs for new parts. Applying a 26.6%  deduction to £51,663.97 gives a value for the parts  of
£37,921.35. From this amount I think  its fair and reasonable to deduct £1,794, as Mr P
would have needed to pay this to get his car broken for parts.
I therefore think the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for Admiral to
pay Mr P £36,127.35, minus anything its already paid him for salvage, to compensate  him
for the loss hes experienced by it selling his car.
Mr P would also like interest and compensation on this amount. However, Im not going to
award any because  Ive also taken into account that much of the car is still for sale, meaning 
its impossible to know if Mr P would have sold most of the parts yet and as such  wouldnt 
have had the money. While I also have no doubt  that Admiral  selling Mr Ps car has caused 
him distress, he would also have had the inconvenience  of selling the parts,  plus any fees 
associated with the sales. So, Im not going  to award  anything  further for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Neither Mr P nor Admiral  accepted my provisional findings.
Mr P made a number  of detailed points. In summary:
Mr P didnt  think the salvage agents  findings over the tread depth should considered, 
as they werent  accurate.
Mr Ps own readings werent  professionally taken and are being used against him.
If Admirals  engineers measurements were rounded down, it would take very little 
friction from the accident to have reduced the depth even further.
Wear from the accident would have been across much of the tyre due to the nature 
of the accident  which  wasnt one single  skid. The rear tyres  would have  taken the 
brunt of the damage due to being  a rear wheel  drive.  
Ref: DRN27567106Mr Ps own engineer was only able to work  from photos due to Admiral having sold 
his car. 
Admirals engineer wasnt consistent  in his view on whether the tyres made a 
difference to the accident. He also said the tyres could have contributed to the 
accident and not that they would have done. 
A health check was carried out on 27/11/17  eight months and fewer than 3,000 
miles  prior to the accident which didnt mention any adverse issues  with the tyres.
Mr P has received a demand for third party damage caused  by the accident.
Mr P accepts  that using depreciation on the cost of parts seems fair and reasonable 
and while the value Ive produced for his car is on the low side, its not out of the 
question. 
Mr P has not received  anything for the salvage  of his vehicle from Admiral.  
Mr P feels interest should  be paid because while its impossible to know  if hed have 
sold all the parts its also impossible to know what  parts  might  have already sold.  And 
given the time that has passed,  the parts would have been  on sale a long time ago. 
Also, the most expensive part  the engine  has been sold. He suggests 4% interest  
would be appropriate as this is splitting the interest  between  him, and Admiral.
Mr P feels it is unfair and unbalanced  to not award any compensation and effectively 
punishes him. He explained the impact of Admiral  selling his car and him needing to 
bring his complaint to our service.
Admiral said it had spoken to a director  of a salvage  company  who confirmed that parts 
would achieve  50% of their retail value at best, while some  parts  wouldnt be able to be 
transferred to another car. Admiral provided  a breakdown of the parts  Mr P had listed  with 
comments on how much  it thought they would sell for, as well as those parts that he thought 
were damaged in the accident  and as such couldnt  be re-sold.  Admiral  said the total for the 
parts was £10,889.13, so this is the amount it would now offer Mr P. It said as a gesture of 
goodwill it wouldnt deduct either the breakage costs or its outlay of £609.21 for the third-
party claim. Admiral said this was a reasonable offer because  it seemed most parts  are still 
for sale and its impossible to know if they will sell. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional  decision and Ill now 
explain why. Id also like to again reassure Mr P that although  I havent  listed  every point 
hes made, I have considered them. However, Ive focussed my decision on what I see as 
the central issues. 
Mr P has explained why he doesnt  think I should be able to rely on the readings relating  to 
the tyre tread in the way that I have.  But I dont think these are new points and as such  Im 
not going to repeat my reasoning for why I think Admiral can fairly rely on them,  as thats  set 
out in my provisional  findings above.  
Ive taken Mr Ps point that the accident  wasnt caused by one single skid and therefore 
there would have been friction across much  of the tyre, rather than in one place. However,  I 
remain satisfied that on balance its most  likely  that the tyres were below the legal limit for 
the reasons set out above in my provisional  decision. Id like to reassure Mr P that I hadnt 
overlooked the health check that was carried  out on his car eight  months before the 
Ref: DRN27567107accident. And although the car might have done less than 3,000  miles since then, thats not 
enough to persuade me that the tread wasnt below the legal limit at the time of the accident.  
Id like to clarify that where I referred to calls with the engineering firm, these  werent both 
with the same engineer. The second person Admiral spoke to said hed looked at the 
engineers photos and if the conditions were  wet then the tyres would have contributed to the 
accident. The original  engineer then issued a second report  that said if the road condition 
was wet then the tyres would have been  a contributing factor.  While this might be slightly  
different in the wording he used in the call where  he said the tyres could have caused the 
accident. This was also in a different context, because he was referring to whether the tyres 
caused the accident rather than contributed  to it. 
As such,  I remain satisfied that Admiral can rely on the policy term that if Mr Ps fails to 
protect his car from loss or damage through its condition and that condition  causes or 
contributes to the loss, then there isnt cover  under  the policy. This means  its not Admirals  
responsibility to cover  either Mr Ps claim or any third-party claim made  against  him, unless 
its liable  under the Road  Traffic Act. And if Admiral do have to settle  a third party claim they 
may decide to recover this amount  from Mr P.
In reaching a fair valuation for the salvage of Mr Ps vehicle, its been difficult  to find out 
which parts  have sold and its impossible to predict  which parts  will sell in the future. 
Therefore, its very difficult to put an exact figure  on how much the salvage is worth. So, in 
reaching what I feel is a fair and reasonable decision, Ive taken all of the circumstances of 
this complaint into account, including that Admiral  sold Mr Ps car when it wasnt its property 
to do so. 
Admiral has provided a breakdown of how much it feels the parts  would sell for and its also 
provided comments from the director of a salvage company that says the parts  would likely  
never fetch more than 50%. He also says that there would need to be demand for the parts 
and there  would also be a reduction in value due to the length  of time taken to sell. However, 
the director also says that anything he says will be speculative. So, I dont think this is 
enough to persuade me that the parts would definitely only fetch  a maximum of 50% of their 
original value. 
Admirals engineer has set out what he thinks parts might sell for and also those parts  that 
he feels were  too damaged to sell, such as the catalytic converter.  He has also said that 
some parts, such as the air conditioning pump  would have been sold as part of the engine.  
However, the current owner  of the salvage has listed the catalytic  converter and other parts  
noted as being damaged by Admiral,  as being for sale. The air conditioning pump is also 
listed as a separate part for sale. I think that indicates that parts arent  too damaged to sell 
and that parts could have been sold separately to other parts. And as such Im not 
persuaded by the information  Admiral  has provided.  
There are also some  parts  that Mr P has listed that werent shown as being for sale.  I 
understand Mr P thought this might  be because the seller had already sold them.  It seems 
from the sellers website that he doesnt  remove the parts hes sold, as the engine  is still 
shown as being for sale. Its impossible to know if these were sold elsewhere or if they 
werent suitable for sale, as we havent  been able to get that information from the seller. 
However, as Admirals engineer listed parts as being too damaged, that were later for sale,  
Im still going to award for these parts,  as Im not persuaded  by the engineers  comments. 
Ref: DRN27567108Overall, Im still satisfied that applying  depreciation to the parts produces a fair and 
reasonable outcome here. I say that because  while  the parts  might not have fetched this 
much when being re sold, the reason we cant know how much Mr P would have recouped  
through the sale of parts is because Admiral sold his car when it wasnt  its property to do so, 
and Mr P had specifically asked it not to. 
I appreciate Mr P would  like me to include interest  and an award for distress and 
inconvenience. However, I still dont think that would result in a fair and reasonable outcome 
here. I say that because  the information from the seller suggests  that although the engine 
has sold, most parts havent. So, I dont think I can fairly award  any interest when  it might  
have taken Mr P considerably more time to sell the rest of the parts. 
I thank Mr P for setting  out the distress and inconvenience that hes undergone since  the 
accident. While I dont  hold Admiral responsible for any distress and inconvenience caused  
in the turning down of the claim, I do accept its caused him considerable distress  and 
inconvenience in incorrectly disposing of his car. In not making  an award for this, Ive taken 
into account that the award Im making  for the value of the parts is likely the maximum they 
would fetch. And also, that Mr P hasnt had the inconvenience or selling costs  associated 
with the selling the parts himself.
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  I remain  satisfied that 
the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Admiral to pay Mr P £36,127.35,  
minus anything its already paid him for salvage.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr P
£36,127.35, minus  anything  its already paid him for salvage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2756710