K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  PPI on some loans 
they took out. Im aware Mr and Mrs H originally  complained about  four loans in total, but 
Halifax has agreed to compensate them  in respect of two.
So this decision is about the remaining two  PPI taken out with a loan in August 1997 and 
another taken  out in October 2000.
background
Our adjudicator in this case didnt think either of the above  PPI mis-sale complaints should 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold either complaint.
August 1997
This was a single premium PPI policy taken out to protect a £2,000 loan. This means the PPI 
had to be paid for in an up front  single  payment  of £218. To pay for this, Mr and Mrs H also 
borrowed the money from Halifax. Both the loan and PPI part of the loan were then subject 
to interest charges  over a 24 month term.
We no longer have access to Mr and Mrs Hs original application form for this loan. As its 
nearly 22 years ago now, this isnt unreasonable as businesses arent required to keep 
documents indefinitely.  Mr and Mrs H dont have a copy either.
Nevertheless weve seen  quite a few very similar loans from this time period and as a 
consequence, weve got a good  understanding of the processes that consumers normally  
went through and the types  of documents Halifax used.  In the absence of the original form, 
we were sent an example of the type of application that was used by Halifax  in 1997 for 
these particular loans.  Having looked carefully  at the example, I can see its very similar to 
many others Ive seen.
The 1997  loan application form Mr and Mrs H were most likely given had two boxes about  
whether they would like PPI for the first applicant. In my view, these choices were 
prominently set out as YES and NO options  and the first of these, for example, said 
YES, I would like to take advantage of  Personal Loan  Repayments Insurance The 
other option confirmed  that PPI wasnt wanted.
Mr and Mrs H said they cant recall ever agreeing to PPI and didnt even know they had it. 
But theres no doubt PPI was added with their 1997 loan, so I think  its more likely they 
chose the option to have  PPI and would have  been  able to see at the time it had been  set 
up for them.
Ref: DRN26054852We also know from our experience that Halifax usually discussed the applicant(s) wishes 
during a meeting first and then generated an agreement printout for them to check  and 
sign, based on that discussion.  Having  looked  at the example form we were sent  and 
from the knowledge I have of many  similar cases  I think  this would have  happened  in this 
case and I also think the cost of the PPI would have been shown of the agreement Mr and 
Mrs H both signed.
Halifax conceded it would have probably  recommended this PPI policy.  Mr H was the first 
applicant so he was the one covered and so Halifax had a duty to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for him. Overall I think it was.
I say this because  I think  he was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Mr H appeared to 
have only very moderate sickness  protection already with his job and policies like these are 
there to remove the added pressure of meeting loan payments in financially difficult  times. 
In the event of a successful claim,  it could  have paid monthly benefit to cover Mr and Mrs 
Hs loan repayments.  I think  this would have been of use.
I note that Mr and Mrs H appear to have  cashed  this 1997 loan in early.  That probably 
resulted in them also cashing in the PPI element and being  refunded  a proportion  of the 
£218 they had paid for it. Sometimes  we dont think single premium  PPI is always  suitable 
for consumers who are likely to cash in early  like this.
But this 1997  loan looks like the first loan in a chain of four loans Mr and Mrs H went  on to 
take out. So I dont think it would have  been  apparent at that stage that Mr and Mrs H had 
any intention,  or were  likely, to end their loan early.  This may be why Halifax  went on to 
compensate them for the next two loans they took out, but these arent cases I have full 
details of or am making any decision about here.  
In short,  for the 1997 loan, I think the PPI policy was suitable  for them.
October 2000
So this brings  us to the fourth  loan in the chain. The PPI Mr and Mrs H were sold on this 
occasion wasnt single premium PPI - it was a regular premium policy. This type of cover is 
different in that its paid for on a month-by-month basis. And in this case, it cost £14.64  per 
month and could be stopped at any time.
Weve got access  to the actual agreement used for this borrowing  event.  Once again, there 
were two prominent options of the form about  PPI and this time there is actual evidence 
that Mr and Mrs H selected the YES option  and signed the form. As well as them  actively 
selecting the PPI, the cost was, in my view, clearly  disclosed on the agreement. 
This represents strong and persuasive  evidence  they asked for  and would have known  
about  the PPI, in 2000. 
In terms of suitability for the 2000 loan,  my previous comments are still relevant  to this sale.  
But additionally, I see this was a longer term loan than their 1997 borrowing and it was 
secured against  Mr and Mrs Hs home. So the consequences of them not being  able to keep 
up payments could have been serious.  I therefore  think the PPI was suitable on this 
occasion too.
Ref: DRN26054853Summary
Ultimately I cant  say why they decided  to choose  this cover but I dont think  the 
recommendation they received from Halifax was unreasonable. Mr and Mrs Hs principle 
point of complaint  was they never knew they had PPI. Given the number of separate policies 
we now know they took out, and the options  available to them each time they did so, I 
consider this to be quite  unlikely.
These sales were a long time ago. But the evidence I have  shows  Mr and Mrs H asked for 
the policies. I think  the information they were  given was clear  enough for them  to make 
informed choices about what they wanted  to do. 
I dont think either policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. And I dont direct  
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  to put matters  right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2605485