K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
1992 and 1994. Mrs O says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
In 1985 Mrs O took out a mortgage.  In 1992, when taking out two further advances on the 
mortgage, Mrs O took out a PPI policy. This policy provided cover for the monthly  
repayments for these  advances and also included cover for the original mortgage 
repayment. She paid a monthly amount for the cover.
When taking out another  further  advance  in 1994,  Mrs O took a further PPI policy to cover 
her monthly repayments for this additional  borrowing only.
If Mrs O had made a successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment  the policies 
offered to repay  the monthly benefit for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.  
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that the policies  were optional and Mrs O had to agree to 
take them out. Mrs O has said she believed the cover was mandatory and that her 
applications were  dependant  on her having this insurance.
Ive seen the applications for both of the further  advances taken out in 1992 and I can see 
that these documents include a section about  PPI. In this section there  are boxes  to tick to 
accept or decline to take out the cover and I can see on the forms the yes boxes have 
been ticked. Mrs O has signed  both of these forms which suggests she agreed with 
everything that had been entered.
And for the policy taken out in 1994  I have been  given a copy  of the application form which 
was completed during  a meeting in branch and I can see that the answer YES has been 
printed into the box next to the question about  whether  PPI is wanted. Whilst this has been 
printed, I think this answer is likely  to reflect what was discussed in the meeting with 
Nationwides representative.
When looking at all of these forms I havent  seen anything to suggest that the policies were 
mandatory or that Mrs Os choice  in taking out the PPI would have a direct impact  on 
whether her applications  would be successful. If the policies werent optional I wouldnt 
have expected to see the option to decline the cover on the application forms.
Ref: DRN21251532So based  on everything Ive seen and been told I think that its more likely that Nationwide 
made it clear  that the policies were optional and that Mrs O chose to take them out, 
knowing she could refuse them  if she didnt want them  even  though I appreciate this may 
not be her recollection  now.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mrs O so it didnt have to check  if they 
were right for her. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed to decide 
for herself  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs O about the PPI policies wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Mrs O chose  to take out PPI for - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover in 1992  
and 1994.
Ive also thought about everything Mrs O has said, including what  she has said about not 
needing the policy as she had good employee  benefits and savings she could have used. 
As I mentioned previously, this policy  wasnt  recommended to her by Nationwide so it was 
for Mrs O to decide if she wanted the policy, based  on what  she knew  about her sick pay 
and other  means.  But in any event, these policies could have covered her monthly  
mortgage repayments for up to 24 months if she was too ill to work and this would be in 
addition to, and potentially for longer  than,  her sick pay. And the policies also provided 
cover for the same length of time if Mrs O was to lose her job. By having  this policy, I think  
Mrs O would have been reassured that she had some protection  if something was to go 
wrong. So this point doesnt change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2125153