K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc: repeatedly blocked bank transfers of 
£20,000 without  reasonable  explanation;  that the service they provided  on the phone when 
dealing with him was poor; that the limit of £20,000  on transfers by BACS was unfair.
Background
Mr G had a savings account with Natwest. In early November 2018 Mr G used  Natwests 
online banking in order to transfer £20,000 from his account to a nominated  payee. This 
payment was stopped, and Mr G was notified that it had been held and he would need  to 
phone the bank in order to verify that it wasnt a fraudulent transaction.  The notification also 
informed Mr G that his online banking would be suspended until he did that.
Mr G was frustrated  at this process  and complained  to Natwest  that the online security  
procedures for his online banking shouldve been enough.
Natwest responded, saying that the restriction was done as a fraud  prevention measure. 
They explained the purpose  of those types  of measures  and why they couldnt share the 
criteria that they used which triggered  that restriction. They  didnt think  the restriction  was 
unfair so didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Natwests explanation. He had further bank transfers of £20,000 to 
different payees  restricted in November and December 2018. He complained  to Natwest  
again. In one instance he felt that he was being  asked to sign up to new terms and 
conditions when he tried to get online  and felt that he was being singled out by this.
Mr G phoned Natwest in early December in response to a further restricted  payment. He 
was frustrated with this call. He was on the phone trying to sort the matter  out for a long 
time. He was told that his online banking was still disabled, and hed need to register for 
online banking again. Mr G asked  repeatedly  why but the call taker  couldnt  tell him. Mr G 
asked to speak  to a manager and when one wasnt available asked for someone to call him 
back. This didnt happen and Mr G has also complained to Natwest  about these issues.
Natwest explained that they dont  expect managers surnames to be provided over the phone 
as a matter of course. They  couldnt explain the message to accept new terms and 
conditions that Mr G reported seeing.  They agreed hed spent excessive time on the phone  
and the service had been poor.  They credited his account with £75 compensation for that 
and £13.50 for his call costs.
Mr G wasnt satisfied and brought his complaints  to us. He also complained that hed been 
unable to make an online  transfer when out of the country without access  to the security  
device Natwest provide for online banking. He phoned Natwest to make the transfer by 
phone and complains  that Natwest wouldnt transfer more  than £10,000 via phone banking. 
He also complained more generally about  the £20,000 limit that Natwest had for BACS 
transfers online. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Natwest had done anything  wrong  in highlighting 
transactions for additional  security checks.  She felt this was part of their normal process to 
protect customers. In relation to Mr Gs complaint about the service he received from 
Natwest on the phone, our investigator felt that the compensation of £75 was fair for the 
inconvenience those  issues  caused. Our investigator felt that the limits Natwest  allow  for 
Ref: DRN24158022BACS payments  was a commercial decision, and that the limits were  clearly available in 
their terms  and conditions  online.
Mr G disagreed with the view. He disputed that it accurately reflected all his issues and didnt 
think our investigator had properly understood what the £75 compensation was for.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the things that Mr G has had to say about  his service with Natwest  and will 
address these as follows:
Fraud prevention security checks
I believe Mr Gs principle issue is his frustration at going through what  seem like rigorous 
security measures with online banking only to have his bank transfer stopped  for a further 
security check  before  Natwest would process it. This happened  to Mr G repeatedly when he 
tried to transfer £20,000 sums to different  payees.
Mr G also raised  an issue  with our investigator that he didnt think  that being notified  of a 
blocked transaction by text message was fair. He quoted an instance where Natwest  sent 
him a text regarding one of his blocked transactions, and he didnt have his phone  on so 
didnt receive it straight away. I can see how this caused real frustration for Mr G given how 
many times he had transactions stopped. But I believe that Natwest notifying a customer of 
an important issue such as this by text message was a reasonable thing to do. In many 
cases text messaging is a quicker means of bringing  something  to a customers  attention 
than post or e-mail. Because I dont think that Natwest have treated Mr G unfairly  in the way 
that they notified him of the blocked  transactions,  I cant say that Natwest have done 
anything wrong.
Every time Mr G had a payment stopped, he had to phone the bank in order to verify the 
transfer and unblock his online banking  profile.  This was inconvenient and time consuming 
and caused Mr G considerable frustration.  It also delayed  payments going through.
Fraud is a serious issue though  and banks have an obligation to protect their customers from 
fraud. Id expect Natwest to have  measures in place to pick up on transactions that may be 
unusual and would require additional verification. I know Mr G argued that he regularly  made 
transactions of that sum, so he didnt think they were unusual. I dont think what Natwest  did 
here was unfair though and I think their explanation  to Mr G properly explained these 
checks. I also agree that it wouldnt be reasonable for Natwest  to share  the criteria they use 
to identify potentially  fraudulent transactions  without compromising  their effectiveness. For 
these reasons I dont  uphold  this part of the complaint.
Customer service
Mr G explained that he had a frustrating experience when he phoned Natwest.  Mr G became 
frustrated with the lack of explanation when being told he would have to enable  his online 
banking again.  He was also frustrated at the fact that he wasnt  provided with the surname of 
a manager when he asked for it and that no manager  called  him back  when he requested  it. 
Natwest accept that the service on the phone Mr G had was poor.  They credited Mr Gs 
account with £75 to compensate him. The response  from Natwest  also addressed the fact 
Ref: DRN24158023that they agreed that Mr G had spent an excessive  amount of time on the phone so 
reimbursed him £13.50  for call costs. Ive listened to the calls and can see that on the call in 
question, frustration was caused by the call taker at Natwest. I think  the compensation 
offered for that service  was fair and I wouldnt  look to increase the compensation that 
Natwest have paid.
New terms and conditions
Mr G has explained he was asked  to sign up to new terms and condition when he used 
online banking. He explained that he refused to do this and then logged back in without 
accepting new terms and conditions. Natwest couldnt explain this and said it was likely to 
have been a one-off error Natwest  pointed  out that Mr G hadnt signed up to any terms and 
conditions other than the standard ones for online  banking. Mr G also agrees he didnt 
accept any different terms and conditions in order to continue with online banking. For this 
reason, I dont think that he suffered  any disadvantage from having the message displayed 
on that one occasion. Therefore I wont be asking Natwest to do anything to put this right.
BACS limits
Natwest have made  a commercial decision to set limits on the maximum amounts that they 
allow for BACS transfers. These were £20,000 a day for online and mobile banking, and 
£10,000 for phone  banking.  I think these  limits are clearly explained  in their terms and 
online. Given the frequent online transactions Mr G said he made I believe he was likely to 
be aware and therefore  understood  those  terms at least for online payments. Mr G may not 
have been familiar with the rules for phone banking, but Natwest  made this information 
available to customers online and in their banking terms  if Mr G had needed to it.
Mr G pointed out that other banks have higher limits. But Natwest arent required to provide 
a higher limit so I cant reasonably say its done  anything wrong or acted unfairly.  In the 
instances Mr G refers  to, I dont think he was treated unfairly in the way the limits were 
applied to him. Natwest offered alternative services  to transfer larger sums had Mr G needed 
to and wanted to use them. 
I appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed with this decision, but for the reasons given I am 
not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2415802