K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs G took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 30 May 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside  a 
store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs G took out the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN27008922my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says she was unaware of the PPI as it was sold without her knowledge. Ive considered  what  
shes said but Ive not seen any evidence to support this. Ive also considered that the PPI was taken  
out a long time ago  around 22 years ago  which  is something I have  to keep in mind when deciding 
what I think is more  likely  to have happened.
FICL has provided evidence of its internal records to show  that the PPI was taken out over the phone  
in 1997  some time after the store card account had been set up. But unfortunately due to the length 
of time thats  passed there is no call recording for me to listen to  so I cant  say what  exactly  was 
discussed at the time. But as Mrs G already  had the credit in place I think she wouldve  known the 
PPI was an optional extra and not a condition of having the store card.
So based on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence  to the contrary, I think FICL  
made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant remember this.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs G got the information  she needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. And 
Mrs G says she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of sale. Having reviewed  the terms 
of the policy it appears Mrs G wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy  for this pre-existing 
condition. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that they felt Mrs G would not have taken  
out the policy  had FICL made  this exclusion clear to her.
Thinking about what shes told us about her condition  and the fact that she was taking regular  
medication to keep it under  control, I think its unlikely  Mrs G would have thought this would be the 
main reason she might  have needed to claim  on the policy. Especially since she told us she had 
never had time off for this condition in this past.  So I think she wouldve  wanted this policy  to cover 
her for more serious,  unexpected conditions  and I dont  think better information  about  the exclusions 
around pre-existing  medical conditions  wouldve  put her off taking out the PPI.
Based on everything  else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Gs outstanding  monthly balance  for up to 
twelve months. And as Mrs G didnt have any sick pay or savings to rely on had she suddenly been 
unable to work, l think the policy wouldve been useful  for her and I dont think  better information  
wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 13 June  2019.
Ref: DRN27008923Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2700892