K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he is financing through Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance  (BPF),  has been of unsatisfactory quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019. In that decision I explained that I was 
expecting to uphold  Mr Bs complaint but the redress I was suggesting was different from 
what the adjudicator  had suggested. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr B took receipt of a new car in September 2016. The total cost of the car was £40,462 and 
Mr B financed the deal through  a 0% APR conditional sale agreement with BPF.  He put 
down a deposit of £19,595.  The remaining  £20,867 was to be paid through  48 monthly 
instalments of £434.73.
But he experienced problems with the cars  gearbox.  The following faults occurred and were 
rectified under warranty:
February 2017  gearbox oil filter housing leak
May 2017   a reoccurrence of the gearbox  oil filter leak
July 2018  full gearbox  replacement
Before the July gearbox replacement he asked the dealerships  central customer service 
department to allow him to reject the car. But a repair was completed under warranty before 
his discussions with them were finished. And when Mr B got the car back he was still 
unhappy with it. He said there was an intermittent noise and he insisted he wanted to reject 
it. But BPF refused,  so he referred  his complaint  to this service in August 2018.  In December 
2018 the car broke down  again. The breakdown service  noted that coolant levels  had 
dropped but no further diagnosis appears to have taken place. Later that month  Mr B settled 
his finance agreement and sold the car for £26,300  but he still complains  that the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality.
BPF didnt  think there was evidence that the failure, which had occurred in May 2017, was 
linked to the gearbox failure in July 2018. They noted theyd heard nothing from Mr B 
between July 2018 and December 2018 and suggested this meant he was happy with the 
repair that had been completed. So they didnt think it would  be fair to ask them  to take any 
further action.
Our adjudicator thought it reasonable to suggest a new cars gearbox should  last longer than 
Mr Bs did. She thought  the business  had been given a chance to repair  the fault when 
theyd been presented with the first gearbox issue in February  2017  and she said, as it was 
clear this repair hadnt resolved the problem,  it was fair to allow Mr B to reject the car. 
But as hed already sold it she considered what redress BPF should provide. She thought  
they should return his deposit and repay  the retention fee Mr B had paid to transfer  his 
personal number  plate. And she also thought  it was clear Mr B had been inconvenienced by 
the problems hed faced so she thought the business should compensate him for that and 
pay him an additional £100.
Ref: DRN29291812BPF didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. They thought  Mr B would be better  off as a 
result and they said hed accepted the repair  and this had allowed him to sell the vehicle at a 
fair price. So they asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that the car was of unsatisfactory quality as it hasnt proven suitably durable but I 
currently think theres a fairer way for BPF to put this right.  Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. It also tells us that, when we 
consider satisfactory  quality, we should  consider whether  the vehicle has proven to be 
suitably durable.
were the breakdowns linked?
This was a new car and I think a reasonable person wouldve expected  the gearbox to have 
lasted longer than it did. I think its very likely the first fault with the gearbox housing leak 
wasnt fixed properly. I say that because an identical repair was required a few months  later. 
Its unclear what impact this continued problem had on the vehicle as Ive not had the benefit 
of an experts opinion. Thats no longer possible as the vehicle has been sold. But I think its 
reasonable to suggest that a gearbox that wasnt being lubricated  properly could  develop  
problems later. So Im persuaded that the subsequent  failure of the gearbox in July was 
most likely to have been related to the earlier problems and that the repairs that had been 
carried out had not been effective.
was the car suitably  durable?
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect a brand new car to need a new gearbox 
within the first 15,000  miles  so I think its clear this car hasnt proven suitably durable  and 
BPF wouldve needed to take some action.
Ref: DRN29291813was a repair approved?
The relevant  legislation  says that the business should be given one opportunity  to repair  a 
fault but if that repair fails the consumer  should be allowed to reject the car.
I think BPFs  first opportunity to repair the fault was in February 2017 and its clear that 
repair failed as the fault re-occurred.
But if the consumer  accepts a further repair rather than rejecting the car the relevant 
legislation says:
a consumer  who  agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace them,  
or exercise  the short term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to repair 
them
Here however, Im not persuaded that Mr B did sanction the repair.  His message has been 
fairly clear throughout. Ive seen  call records to the dealership, BPFs agent  in this 
agreement, on 13 July before the cars gearbox  was replaced, in which he asked the 
dealership to be allowed to reject  the car. It appears  that he didnt  get an answer  and the car 
was repaired in the interim. 
Ive seen that, shortly  after that repair, on 23 July, Mr B expressed  a desire again to reject  
the car and that he referred his complaint to our service afterwards. I dont think  those  
actions are consistent with the actions of a consumer who has accepted a repair.
the redress if the car was still in Mr Bs possession
As I dont think Mr B did accept a repair it wouldve been right to allow  him to reject the 
vehicle and to have asked BPF to terminate his finance agreement with nothing more  to pay.
In those circumstances we would usually ask the business to take the car back  and refund 
any deposit made by the consumer. 
Id have also asked  them to refund any instalments for the time the car was off the road but 
Mr B was making payments to BPF. Here, I think one instalment would suffice to cover  the 
time, during the first three breakdowns, that Mr B wouldnt have had use of the car.
And, as its clear Mr B has been inconvenienced  by the problems hes experienced I think a 
payment of £100  wouldve  been suitable  compensation for BPF to pay him.
So the redress if hed been allowed to reject  the car in July 2018,  when he asked to, would 
have been:
take the car back and cancel the agreement with nothing  further to pay
return Mr Bs deposit and add 8% simple interest  per annum
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced
refund  one finance instalment for the period  Mr B didnt have use of the vehicle
the redress now that the car has been sold
Ref: DRN29291814I dont currently agree with the settlement suggested  by the adjudicator  as I think  it puts Mr B 
in a significantly better position than he wouldve been in if this issue hadnt happened.
Thats because under the adjudicators suggested redress Mr B is getting  the benefit  of the 
deposit twice.  He has sold the car that the deposit  partly funded so he has the benefit of 
getting that deposit, or at least  part of it, back through the resale value.
So it would be wrong to ask BPF to reimburse  that deposit again. They  havent  got the car to 
sell to finance any refund of the deposit.  Mr Bs already done that.
Mr B had the use of the car from July 2018 when I think its fair to say BPF shouldve  allowed 
him to reject  it, until December 2018  when he sold it and settled the outstanding balance  on 
the agreement. Hes had the benefit  of the car so it wouldnt be fair to tell BPF to refund any 
instalments hes paid in this period.  But he has been denied  the opportunity to look for 
another car and has driven one that he was clearly not satisfied with. I think  hes therefore 
been more inconvenienced than he wouldve  been if hed been allowed to reject the car in 
July. So I think in those  circumstances  BPF should pay him more compensation. I think  £400 
is about right.
Mr B had to pay to retain his license plate. But I dont think  this is a cost it would be fair to 
ask BPF to refund. The transfer  would always have been necessary at the end of the 
contract and Mr Bs costs  were unavoidable if he was intending to keep the personalised 
number plate.
my provisional decision
So Im expecting to ask Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to:
pay Mr B £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
refund  one finance instalment for the period  Mr B didnt have use of the vehicle and 
add 8% simple interest per annum
remove any adverse records that may have been added to Mr Bs credit  file in 
relation to this issue
my findings
BPF didnt  have any further comments but Mr B did. 
He disagreed with the redress Id suggested. He said he wasnt  able to sell the car for a 
reasonable price  because  of the faulty  gearbox. He provided information to suggest  the car 
should have been worth £33,000 but he said he only received £26, 300 for it and he also 
explained that hed put more than £8,000 worth of extras on the car.
He said he wouldnt have  sold the car if he knew Id make  a decision within  a month and it 
was suggested  to him by this service that it could be months before his case reached the 
front of the queue.
He went on to explain that he had asked BPF and Audi if they wanted  to purchase the car 
but they hadnt got back to him.
Ref: DRN29291815Mr B explained that hed paid about  £31,332.71 in instalments  and deposit  for the car when 
he sold it for £26,300. So he thought the least he should be provided with was the difference  
of £5,032.71.
He was disappointed to see that under  my proposed settlement he may receive less than he 
would have if hed kept hold of the vehicle.
He also explained  that the car was still experiencing problems  in February and May 2017 
and in July 2018. So he said he wasnt getting the full use from the car that Id suggested in 
my decision  but was still paying  for it.
And finally he thought  that the compensation I had suggested didnt take account of the 
stress he and his family had experienced. He explained that his wife was pregnant when the 
breakdowns happened and there could well have been an accident. 
So Ive reconsidered  all of the evidence to decide whats  fair and reasonable in this case and 
in particular Ive thought  about the additional comments Mr B has made.
I understand that Mr B will be frustrated  that the redress Im suggesting may be lower than 
he may have achieved if hed retained the car. But thats because  he sold the car and I think  
that was Mr Bs decision. If any deficit is made  up I would be asking BPF to do that and I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask them to do so where the problem, with any 
imbalance in the redress, wasnt  of their doing.
I can understand that Mr B may have been  frustrated by the potential  for his complaint to be 
delayed in our system  but I dont think he was given  incorrect advice. He may well have had 
several months to wait before  the decision cleared the queue and I therefore think  the advice 
seems reasonable.  It was Mr Bs choice to sell the car and whilst I completely understand his 
concerns I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask BPF to compensate him for any 
loss in redress hes experienced as a result.
I also dont think it would  be fair to ask BPF to pay for any of the extras Mr B says he added  
to the car and can provide  receipts  for. BPF didnt  ask him to add these  items  and they didnt 
ask him to sell the car with the extras still on it. So they shouldnt  be asked to compensate  
Mr B for their loss.
Mr B has suggested the car wouldve been  worth  more if the gearbox had been working. But 
it wasnt and if hed handed the car back BPF would have been  faced with the same problem 
so Im not persuaded that they should  be asked to pay more because  Mr B chose to sell the 
vehicle.
Hes explained that theres a difference  of just over £5,000 between the money put into the 
car, via instalments  and the deposit,  and the amount he was able to gain from selling the 
car. That may be the case but as BPF have not been given the opportunity to sell the vehicle 
it would  be unfair to ask them to compensate Mr B for a loss in value they may have been 
able to overcome  if theyd had the vehicle to sell on themselves.
Ive reconsidered  the compensation Ive suggested here. It must have been distressing for 
Mr B and his family to experience a breakdown, especially in fast traffic, but I dont think  it 
would be fair to change the compensation dependant on the circumstances of the 
breakdown. The payment  is to compensate Mr B for the inconvenience suffered and Im not 
persuaded theres a need to increase  it.
Ref: DRN29291816Mr B has also explained  that the car wasnt working  fully in February and May 2017 and in 
July 2018. I explained in my provisional decision that I realised  he wasnt  fully satisfied with 
the car and I therefore considered the inconvenience was more significant  and the 
compensation should be increased. So I think I covered this point in my provisional decision 
and Im not persuaded the award should be any higher.
Overall, Ive not seen  any new evidence that would lead me to change my provisional 
decision and so that now becomes my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I tell Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  to:
pay Mr B £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
refund  one finance instalment for the period  Mr B didnt have use of the vehicle and 
add 8% simple interest per annum
remove any adverse records that may have been added to Mr Bs credit  file in 
relation to this issue
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2929181