K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold to Mr and Mrs G in 2004, in connection with a joint 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs G if they couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation,  did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs needs?
-Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs G the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs G are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have  done  something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs G say they must have been  put under pressure to buy the policy, and that Lloyds 
didnt give them a proper  choice. 
Ive noted everything  Mr and Mrs G have said. The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed  between Mr and Mrs G and Lloyds when the policy  was sold.  
Im also mindful that the sale took place  many years ago, and that precise recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation  from the time the policy was sold. Thats  not 
surprising given the time thats passed,  and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
Ref: DRN25223882Without anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs G have told me, I havent  been able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the policy  was optional.  
Lloyds accepts that it probably  advised Mr and Mrs G to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable  for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Mr and Mrs G were  eligible for the policy given their circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Mr and Mrs G say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt work  due 
to sickness or accident.  But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Gs 
employer sick pay, and wouldve meant  they could use those benefits  to pay for other  
expenses if they couldnt work. So overall  I think Mr and Mrs G would have had some use for 
the policy, despite their existing  arrangements.
-Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such  
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs G 
needed better  advice or information  about  the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the policys  cost was made clear  to Mr and Mrs G before they agreed to 
buy it. But the policy was competitively  priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have made a different  decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  was reasonably  priced.  So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have  
made a different decision if better  information had been provided   overall, I think  they would still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2522388