K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit  card repayments.
background
Miss T applied for a credit  card by post in 2000. At the same time she took out a PPI policy 
to cover her credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.69 per £100 of the balance  on Miss 
Ts credit card. A successful  claim  on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Miss T was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Ts complaint should be upheld because  she thought Miss 
T wouldve  understood  she had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided 
a useful benefit.
Miss T disagrees.  She says she didnt need  the policy.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ts complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Miss T completed a postal application for a credit  
card. BOS  have given  us a copy of the application form Miss T completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within  
the section gives  you the option  to sign to take PPI or decline it. I can see on Miss Ts 
application form she has signed to take PPI. 
I think there is enough there for Miss T to understand she didnt need to take PPI because 
she couldve  signed not to take PPI. So I think Miss T selected to take PPI because  she 
wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think BOS advised 
Miss T to take PPI. What this means  is that BOS didnt recommend  PPI to Miss T, it just 
gave her information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear,  
fair and not misleading so she could make  an informed  choice  about  buying PPI.
I dont know if BOS  did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if BOS did 
give all the information  Miss T needed to make an informed choice on taking  out the policy,  
I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know 
about BOS policies:
She was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN26274732It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss T says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay she could 
use to make  her repayments  if she couldnt work  due to accident or sickness or if she 
lost her job. But a successful claim on the policy  wouldve  paid out on top of any work 
benefits and covered  her for potentially longer up to 12 months  per claim. So I cant see 
how knowing this information  wouldve  put her off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss T and she could cancel  
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss T on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because: 
When the policy  was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Miss T about that. 
Because BOS  didnt  tell Miss T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627473