K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only  mortgage  Mr M took out with Leeds Building Society 
in 2008. He says Leeds lent the money  irresponsibly,  and has since  made  him pay far too 
much interest. Hes also alleged that there was a secret commission  deal between  Leeds 
and the introducing broker.
background
In 2008, acting on the advice and recommendation of a third party  intermediary Ill call W, 
Mr M applied  for a mortgage  with Leeds.  He initially asked for a repayment mortgage, but 
whilst Leeds was assessing the application,  W sent it a fax to say Mr M now wanted  an 
interest-only mortgage, and the repayment  vehicle for it would be a pension  plan. Leeds 
issued Mr M with an offer for an interest-only  mortgage, on a 25-year term, with interest 
charged at its standard variable rate (SVR). 
In 2018, after speaking with a mortgage  advisor,  Mr M contacted  Leeds  and arranged  to 
switch the mortgage to capital repayment. 
Mr M complained in 2018, saying Leeds had granted the loan on terms that created an unfair  
relationship between it and him. He said it should  have been obvious  that lending  around 
£166,000 and requiring him to repay  approximately £414,000 was unfair and Leeds had 
made no pro-active attempts since then to offer him a lower rate. He also indicated his belief 
that there  had been secret commission payments.
Leeds didnt uphold the complaint, and nor did our adjudicator after Mr M referred the 
complaint to us. Mr M has asked  for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr M. 
When a lender receives a mortgage  application via an intermediary, its not required to 
duplicate the intermediarys role. As Mr Ms broker, W arranged  the mortgage  on his behalf  
and was responsible for advising him on its suitability for his needs  and circumstances. 
Leedss role was to decide if and on what terms it was willing  to lend. Its that simple.  
It was for Mr M to consider the terms of the mortgage  Leeds  had offered him (details of 
which were set out in the offer in a format  approved  by the regulator)  and make  his own 
decision on whether  it was consistent  with the advice and recommendation hed received 
from W.
Leeds duty was to lend responsibly by making sure the monthly interest  payments  were  
affordable. The available  evidence doesnt  point to Leeds having failed in that duty in 2008. 
Mr M says Leeds was wrong to accept Ws fax saying the interest-only mortgage  would  be 
repaid from a pension  plan,  because  his application  form said he didnt have one. But under 
the standards in place at that time, lenders  didnt  have  to check  what brokers told them 
about the existence and/or credibility of a borrowers  repayment strategy. Here, Leeds was 
Ref: DRN25355792entitled to assume  W was telling  the truth. Also, the plan for repaying the capital was 
documented in the mortgage  offer, so it seems Mr M accepted it as credible.
As far as the interest rate and amounts payable are concerned, Im a little puzzled at Mr Ms 
statement that it should have been obvious  that paying £414,000  to repay a debt of 
£166,000 was unfair. That information was also in the mortgage offer, so just like the 
repayment strategy,  Mr M was (or should  have  been) aware of it at the outset; its not 
something hes only just found out. 
Mr M switched to a new rate in 2018; its not clear to me why he would have waited so long 
to do that. If at any time between 2008  and 2018,  Mr M thought he was paying  too high an 
interest rate, it was open  to him to approach Leeds,  either directly  or via his broker,  to see if 
there was a better deal on offer. Or he could have  looked at the market as a whole to see 
what deals other lenders  were offering. Leeds wasnt obliged  to prompt him to seek a better 
deal.
On the secret commission point, the mortgage offer specified that Leeds would pay W 
£499.50 for arranging the mortgage,  so theres  nothing secret  there. Mr M doesnt say why 
he believes  something other than that might have happened; he provides no supporting 
evidence and he doesnt even say which direction he thinks such a commission might  have 
been paid. In that context, theres no finding  for me to make  here.
Mr M says hell engage  a barrister to issue court  proceedings  if this isnt settled amicably. 
Subject to any time limits or other  restrictions a court  might  impose,  Mr Ms right to take legal 
action against  Leeds over the subject matter  of this complaint wont  have been prejudiced by 
our consideration of the complaint
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Leeds  Building  Society.  My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535579