K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc wrongly advised them to set up a 
property development  business and transfer their residential mortgage  to it in 2007  in order  
to borrow money for a buy to let property. They want matters  put right.
background
Mr and Mrs B said that in 2007 Barclays advised them to set up a property development 
business and remortgage with it in order so they could borrow  money to refurbish a buy to let 
property. Mr and Mrs B did so and took out a part repayment and part interest only 
mortgage. They felt that this was wrong  advice and meant that they now faced large  loans 
and werent mortgage  free.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays. It said that it had limited information  available  from 
when the mortgage was taken out, but there  was no record of Barclays  giving advice  to set 
up a new company. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. The investigators  view was that the evidence  didnt show  
that Barclays advised Mr and Mrs B to set up a property development business.  But it did 
give advice about  the mortgage  taken out in 2007. She noted that Mr and Mrs B also opened 
a current account  with a mortgage reserve attached,  and the evidence suggested that 
Barclays did know that the money  was to be used to refurbish a buy to let property and then 
it would  be sold to repay some of the borrowing.
The investigator said that the advice  given didnt mean that the mortgage was unsuitable to 
meet Mr and Mrs Bs needs, and there was no evidence that at the time the mortgage was 
unaffordable. The financial crash changed everything and led to the property being sold at a 
loss; the investigator  said that Barclays couldnt  have foreseen this event and didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They felt that the residential mortgage was mis-sold as they 
werent aware of all the risks. The investigator  didnt  change  her view; she said that 
Mr and Mrs Bs needs were assessed before  the mortgage taken out and there  was no 
evidence that it was unsuitable  at that time. The investigator pointed  out that the risks of 
non-payment were  set out within  the mortgage offer.  Mr and Mrs B wanted a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While the evidence available  from 2007 is limited, I do have a copy of the contact notes  
between Barclays and Mr and Mrs B. Theres no evidence  supporting  the view that Barclays  
advised Mr and Mrs B to go into property development. And such  advice wouldnt be 
regulated advice if given. While I wasnt present at any meetings between Barclays  and 
Mr and Mrs B, I do think it unlikely  a bank would advise a customer to specifically  go into a 
new area of business.  I do though think its possible that when told a customer  is considering  
such a step, a bank  would talk about  the financing options which  might  be available.
Ref: DRN25573872And this view is supported  by the fact that Barclays did advise Mr and Mrs B about  a 
residential mortgage in 2007, and recorded  that the purpose of the borrowing was to raise 
money to refurbish another property (which  would then be sold). The evidence available  to 
me shows that Barclays considered Mr and Mrs Bs needs and financial position before 
offering them a mortgage. 
And while Mr and Mrs B have said Barclays didnt advise them about the risks, its not clear  
to me whether they mean generally  in their new business (which isnt something for which  
Ive found Barclays  did advise on, and it didnt have a duty to do so), or about  the mortgage  
itself. The detail of the mortgage is set out clearly  within the offer,  including  the possible risks 
of non-payment.  And Mr and Mrs B were experienced  businesspeople who had held 
mortgages before;  Im satisfied that they did know the risks of not paying the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that the mortgage  wasnt suitable to meet  their needs,  but they also 
accept that they ran into problems due to the financial crash. As Mr B said to this service, the 
crash was unforeseeable and totally disastrous. They were unable  to pay the mortgage 
due to the loss of their main business  and the sale of the buy to let property at a loss; both of 
these events Mr B has said was due to the crash. Barclays couldnt have predicted this 
change of circumstances and this doesnt render the mortgage unsuitable when it was taken 
out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 March  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557387