K820x#14complaint
Mr T applied  for a mortgage  with Nationwide Building Society  and is unhappy with what 
happened with the valuation of the property. He says the report was flawed, which meant  he 
couldnt borrow as much money as he wanted.
background
Mr T applied  for a mortgage  with Nationwide for a property he was looking to buy. When the 
valuation was arranged  he opted just for the free basic mortgage  risk report.
The valuation was carried  out on 26 October  2018  and Mr Ts house purchase completed  in 
December 2018.
The valuation report said The property shows signs of cavity wall tie failure.  Obtain a report  
from a specialist on the condition of wall ties in all exterior cavity walls. All recommendations 
should be implemented. That said, the report noted  the property was still suitable security 
for a mortgage in its current  condition (that is, without  the investigations being done) and 
was worth £123,000  against a purchase  price (and valuation if the investigations and works 
were done) of £125,000.
After reviewing the report, on 31 October  the Nationwide underwriter  made a note in the 
contact notes that Mr T should be given four options;
Keep the loan the same and a new product would need to be selected as the loan to 
value was now over the maximum  allowed for the product that had been  applied for.
Reduce the loan to keep it within the maximum loan to value allowed for the product.
Obtain the report so the valuation figure  could  be reviewed.
Withdraw the application.
Unfortunately despite Mr T being  in contact with Nationwide after the note had been added, 
the message wasnt passed on and so Mr Ts focus  was on whether  the valuation  was 
flawed and the need for a further report. Once  the information was passed on, Mr T opted  to 
reduce the loan amount,  and the mortgage  completed on that basis.
Once hed moved  in to the property  Mr T complained to Nationwide.  It said it had to rely on 
the expertise of the surveyor, but apologised for not passing the information on sooner about 
the other options.  For that it paid £100  compensation. Unhappy with that response Mr T 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair, saying Nationwide did nothing wrong in relying on 
the valuation report. Mr T didnt agree  and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I trust Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment  on any specific point  its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in order 
to reach  the right outcome.  
Ref: DRN27707842This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should  be asked 
or answered.  For that reason  I wont be answering  Mr Ts questions, nor will I be ordering 
Nationwide to.
Nationwide doesnt  have the expertise to value  property,  so it employs the services  of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case  by appointing  a member  of the Royal  Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Nationwides not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor  or any 
action (or inaction) by the surveyor or the firm she works for. 
Nationwide is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against  it for things a separate  business  did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Nationwide is if it discharged its duty in instructing  a suitable firm of surveyors, and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Mr T says the valuation was flawed  but Nationwide was entitled to rely upon it. Nationwide  
did nothing wrong  in accepting the surveyors professional opinion,  however much Mr T 
didnt agree with it. I cant comment  on what the surveyor did or didnt say as that business 
doesnt fall within my jurisdiction. All I can say is that theres  nothing  in the information 
Nationwide was given  that would cause  me to say the report  was flawed such that 
Nationwide shouldnt have relied  on it. Theres also no requirement for either Nationwide  or 
the surveyor to answer Mr Ts requests for more precise information.
All that said,  Nationwide  has admitted there was a delay in telling Mr T of the options the 
underwriter had put forward. Its apologised for that oversight and paid £100 compensation. 
At that time Mr Ts application  couldnt  be progressed  anyway  as Nationwide  was still waiting 
for an acceptable employment reference (as the one that had been  provided didnt contain 
the information it needed). That reference  had been  requested so until it was supplied  
nothing further  could be done. So whilst there was a delay in letting Mr T know about the 
options, it didnt  actually delay the application,  and having considered  everything Mr T and 
Nationwide have told us I consider the offer of £100 is fair and reasonable, so I dont  order  
Nationwide to do - or pay - any more.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Nationwide  to change  its processes 
as Mr T wants. I appreciate that the process  may have been  frustrating but Im satisfied the 
£100 already paid to Mr T is fair in all the circumstances of the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN27707843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2770784