K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy with the amount  of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has 
offered to settle  his complaint about a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out with a credit  card.
background 
Mr W complained  to Barclays  that he had been mis-sold PPI with his credit  cards.  Mr W had 
taken out two credit cards  with Barclays and PPI was sold attached  to each card account. 
Both card accounts were opened  at the same time. 
Barclays wrote to Mr W upholding his complaint about card ending  1001 and offered to pay 
compensation, which Mr W was happy  to accept. But for the other card,  ending  9005, 
Barclays said the PPI wasnt  mis-sold.  It later agreed that both policies were mis-sold 
however only offered  £1.00 in compensation after tax, plus £50.00  for its initial error in 
saying the PPI wasnt mis-sold with card 9005.
Mr W had when he complained provided  a statement for the account ending 9005  from 
December 1996  which showed he had paid £2.18  in PPI costs,  so he said it was clear  he 
had paid much more for the PPI. Barclays  then recalculated the compensation and offered a 
further £46.06 in compensation  after tax.
Mr W still wasnt happy and brought his complaint  to this service. Our adjudicator said how 
Barclays had estimated the costs of the PPI for the period when there was no data wasnt  
fair and suggested  taking  a different approach.  
Barclays recalculated  using this approach and offered a further £204.26 after tax in 
compensation plus £50.00 for distress  and inconvenience, making a total of £254.26 more, 
that it was willing to pay.
Mr W initially indicated  he would accept this but then decided  it may not be correct  and 
asked for a different approach to the calculation to be made. The complaint has now been 
referred to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint  I am only looking at what is fair compensation, due for the mis-sold  PPI with 
card account  ending 9005.  Barclays has agreed  to uphold the complaint that the PPI with 
this account was mis-sold, so Im not considering how the PPI came  to be mis-sold.
Barclays has offered a total of £289.50,  before tax, in compensation and it has already  paid 
£56.77 of this to Mr W. 
Barclays doesnt have  full data about Mr Ws account so it isnt able to work out exactly what  
Mr W paid for the costs of the PPI. It knows of three  premiums paid between 1996 when the 
card was opened and 2001  when it stopped being  used. From 2001 Barclays  has full data, 
so it knows what the last charge was for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN24132222To work out the compensation Barclays has taken  an average of the three  amounts charged  
as if over a three month period and then used  this average amount as what was charged for 
the PPI going  forward  from the statement in December 1996. It has used a reducing method 
going back from November 1996, to when  the card account opened  in February  1996.
It is impossible  to know if the average  charge  used  for the PPI is more, or possibly less, than 
what Mr W actually  paid in each month for the PPI. But where there is such  limited  data 
available I think that the approach taken to estimating for the periods without data is 
reasonable.
I have seen the calculations and estimates  done by Barclays and these  indicate  Mr W may 
have paid around £113.00 for the PPI premiums and interest. In addition  Barclays has added 
compensatory interest  for any time Mr W was out of pocket.  (HM Revenue  and Customs  
requires Barclays to take basic rate tax off this compensatory interest). After tax the total 
compensation due to Mr W is £261.03. Barclays  has already paid some  of the compensation 
to Mr W and when this is removed it leaves £204.26  still to be paid by Barclays to Mr W.
In addition Barclays has offered to pay a further £50.00  for the trouble and upset cased to 
Mr W in the way it has dealt with his complaint. I understand from the correspondence I have 
seen that Mr W may already have been  paid £50.00  because Barclays originally made  an 
error when  assessing  whether the PPI associated with this card was mis-sold.  
I think a further £50.00,  as appears to have been  offered,  is fair as Barclays has caused 
some delay in not using  the statement data Mr W had provided when it first did its 
calculations. So in total I think it is fair for Barclays to now pay Mr W a further amount of 
£254.26 to settle his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think that fair compensation for the mis-sold PPI is 
£261.03, after tax. Taking account of the payments  already made to Mr W, Barclays  Bank  
UK PLC should now pay £254.36 to Mr W, this amount includes a further £50.00  for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2413222