K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that DJS (UK) Limited, trading as PiggyBank, (DJS),  gave her short  term 
loans which  were unaffordable. 
background
This complaint is about three short  term loans  DJS provided to Mrs P between  May 2013 
and February 2018. Loans 1 and 2 were both repayable by one repayment. Loan 3 was 
repayable by five monthly repayments.  Loan  3 hasnt been repaid. A summary  of Mrs Ps 
lending history is as follows:
Loan number 
Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amount  
     1. 8/5/13 31/7/14 £200 £256.95
     2. 9/12/14 28/5/15 £265 £322.06
     3. 2/2/18 Unpaid £800 £286.45 per month
The adjudicator recommended that all the loans should be upheld. He said that the 
information that DJS had gathered before Loan 1 showed that Mrs P had a significant  
number of short term loans. By Loan 2 Mrs P showed signs she was struggling to repay  her 
previous loan as it had remained  unpaid  for 14 months. And he said that that the information 
that DJS had gathered before Loan  3 showed  that Mrs P had a significant number of short  
term loans.   
DJS responded to say that it agreed that Loans 2 and 3 shouldnt  have been lent. But it said 
that at the time of Mrs Ps application for Loan  1 there  was no sign on her credit file or on her 
affordability details  that she wouldnt be able to pay back the loan.
The adjudicator responded to DJS to say that the information gathered by it showed that 
there were three separate outstanding  short term loan commitments totalling around  £750. 
He said that these ought to have given an indication that Mrs P was unlikely to sustainably 
repay Loan 1.
DJS responded to say that it wanted an ombudsman to review  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As DJS has agreed to settle Loans  2 and 3, I dont propose to investigate these below but I 
will refer to them in my award.
When DJS first lent to Mrs P the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and relevant 
guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 onwards 
the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations  and 
guidance included  its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC contained  
similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN23204962DJS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that DJS should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that DJS was required to establish 
whether Mrs P could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG and later CONC defines sustainable  as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
DJS did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs P. It asked  her for details of her income  and 
expenditure. Before  Loan 1, DJS applied a buffer of £566 to Mrs Ps expenses based  on 
statistical data as Mrs Ps declared expenditure was less than what  it expected. From  Loan  3 
DJS added any credit  commitments it could  see on Mrs Ps credit  file to her expenses.
DJS also checked Mrs Ps credit  file before agreeing to the loans. It has provided this service  
with brief information about the results of its credit checks. I shall refer to this below.
I note that Loan  1 was for £200 with a repayment amount of £256.95. In its final response 
letter DJS said that Mrs P had a disposable income  of £699. So I can see that the repayment 
amount for Loan 1 would  have appeared relatively  modest.
DJS has provided this service with a summary  of its credit checks  before Loan 1. I can see 
that this shows three payday loans with balances of £393, £146 and £207. I also note that 
Ref: DRN23204963the checks show a defaulted account with a balance of £333. The credit  check  doesnt  show 
the date of this default so I dont know how close to Loan 1 it occurred and whether it should  
have caused additional concerns to DJS. Nevertheless I think that the number and amount 
of Mrs Ps outstanding short term loans suggest that Mrs P was having serious problems 
managing her money and that Loan  1 wasnt likely to be sustainable. So I think  it was wrong  
for DJS to give Loan 1 to Mrs P. 
So Im upholding  this complaint and DJS should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what DJS needs to do
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mrs P paid on Loans 1 and 2;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Mrs P has paid on Loan  3, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of  
settlement; 
4.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
5.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3  
and pay any balance  to Mrs P;  
6.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ps credit  file with regard to 
      Loans 1 to 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS to take off tax from this interest. DJS must give 
Mrs P a certificate  showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If DJS intends 
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting 
the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order DJS (UK) Limited, trading as PiggyBank,  to:-
1.Refund all interest and charges Mrs P paid on Loans 1 and 2;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they   
were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Refund all the interest and charges that Mrs P has paid on Loan 3, and pay 8% simple 
interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of  settlement; 
4.Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 3;
5.Apply the refunds referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3  and pay      
any balance to Mrs P;  and
6.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ps credit file with regard to 
   Loans 1 to 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS to take off tax from this interest. DJS must give 
Ref: DRN23204964Mrs P a certificate  showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If DJS intends 
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2320496