K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the first policy in April 2000  at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £228.55  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The policy term 
matched that of the loan.  The loan was repayable over a 24-month term. The monthly  loan 
repayment was £121.86 with the PPI costing an additional £11.14 making  the total monthly 
repayment £133.00. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ss monthly loan repayment for up to 
24 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
Mr S bought the second policy in October 2000  at the same  time as taking out a new loan. 
He applied for the loan and PPI policy by telephone.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £1,344.22 was paid in advance by being  added to 
the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest over the term of the loan.  The policy  
term matched that of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 60-month term. The monthly  
loan repayment  was £165.68  with the PPI costing  an additional £29.30 making  the total 
monthly repayment £194.98.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ss monthly loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time of both sales, Mr S was employed  as a maintenance team leader. He has told us 
he was entitled  to at least  six months sick pay and a redundancy payment should he be 
unable to work or lost his job. Mr S has also said his employer offered a death  in service 
benefit. Mr S has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale,  though  he had once hurt 
his back in 1975 which caused  him to take some time off work.  
. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the October 2000 loan refinanced  the April 
2000 loan and closed in 2003.
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
Ref: DRN27444912handling PPI complaints  under DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Mr S about  the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr S and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint
These sales took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
Ref: DRN27444913complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ss complaint. 
Ref: DRN27444914key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has shown  us copies of both credit  agreements signed by Mr S in 2000. Both 
credit agreements describe the policies as optional and list the PPI premium, interest and 
monthly repayments separate to the main loans.  In addition  Nationwide has shown us a 
copy of the April 2000 loan application  which  gave the option to accept or decline PPI. And I 
can see a box has been ticked to accept the PPI. 
Mr S has said he was pressured into taking the PPI. Mr S has said the Nationwide 
representative told him in April 2000  that the policy  would protect him for a set amount of 
time if he was unable to work. Ive thought about  this but pressure is a subjective issue. 
What one person  feels is pressure another may not. And Ive not seen enough persuasive 
evidence to uphold  the complaint on this point.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  these  sales. Mr S disagrees. Looking  at what  
happened when  Nationwide  sold Mr S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice.  
From experience I am aware  that Nationwide did not generally conduct a full financial review 
when selling  this type of policy, something it would need to do in order to give a personal 
recommendation. Mr S recalls being  told the policy would protect him, but I think  that its 
likely the representative  was providing  information  about the policy  rather  than formal  advice.
Ref: DRN27444915This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr S. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr S to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policies,  including drawing to his attention  and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policies and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  his payments if Mr S 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability.) I have reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mr S would have taken out the policy  without any sense of what  
the policy was. And I think Mr S knew that the single premiums being added  to the loan were 
£228.55 and £1,344.22  and the monthly costs were £11.14  and £29.30 each month as this 
information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreements Mr S signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit - or about the exclusions or limitations before  
Mr S agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policies, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
Ref: DRN27444916What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr S? To what extent  did Mr S 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to     
Mr S. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr S 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mr S says he would  not have taken them out and believes I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Mr S had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the 
policies against  the benefits offered and the potential consequences  if he didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take these  policies  out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude he had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But he 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr S thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr S was given  about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policies, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr S would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ss expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr S 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do any work as certified by a doctor.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
Ref: DRN27444917should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr S didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions at the time of the sales. He has told us of a back injury in 1975 
but that was some 25 years prior to the sale of the policies and Ive not seen any evidence  
that it gave him any ongoing problems. Mr S was also in permanent employment.  
To be eligible for the policies Mr S needed to have been in continuous employment for six 
months before the policies started. Mr S has questioned if he was eligible for the policy  in 
April 2000 as hed only been with his employer for a month. But the policy  only required that 
Mr S had been in continuous employment  for six months and not necessarily with the same 
employer. And I note Mr S had been  in continuous  employment with his previous employer 
before moving  to his new job without a break.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr S 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job it might  have  played into his thinking about what  
he would  do. And I accept  it may have given  him pause for thought  although given Mr Ss 
circumstances, on balance, I still think he would  have  been interested in taking out the cover.
The policies did provide pro-rata refunds if they were cancelled early,  so the policies 
provided flexibility if Mr S decided to repay the loans  early and cancel the policies.
The policies would have  paid the monthly  benefit until either Mr S returned to work  or the 
loan ended if Mr S made a successful disability claim. But Nationwide may not have told     
Mr S that any unemployment claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month period. This 
may have  differed from what  he expected  and might have hoped for. But his statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly loan repayments  would have been of benefit to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr S have  lost his job in the circumstances covered  by 
the policies. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policies. The policies were sufficiently close  to 
what its likely he thought  he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage 
the consequences were Mr S made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr S would have  taken 
out the policies in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN27444918the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as result  of the sales was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policies 
he was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Ref: DRN27444919Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2744491