K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  has made unnecessary and 
unfair changes to its share dealing service. He says the changes  have made  it harder for 
him to manage his investments.
background 
Mr B holds a stocks and shares ISA with NatWest. In January  2019, it wrote to him saying it 
could no longer take debit  card payments over the phone. In May 2019 Mr B wrote to 
NatWest, asking it to allow his wife, Mrs B, to place trades on his account for him. NatWest 
said it now required Mr and Mrs B to arrange a Power of Attorney (POA) if he wanted her to 
be able to trade on his account.
Mr B complained. He said the inability to make  debit card payments had made using  
NatWests service much more inflexible. He was unhappy he was only able to fund his 
account by cheque or bank transfer from a NatWest account. He thought he ought  to have 
been able to make bank  transfers from his RBS account as the banks  are part of the same  
group. 
He also complained that hed always been able to simply give a signed Letter of Authority 
(LOA) in the past to allow his wife to trade for him. He said there was no legal  or regulatory 
need for NatWest  to demand a POA  instead,  and complained hed not been  informed of the 
change of policy and he would incur a cost as a result.
NatWest didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It explained  its telephone systems  had changed  and 
were no longer compliant with the relevant regulations which  would allow it to accept debit 
card payments. So it had made a variation to the way it would allow customers  to pay money 
into their accounts. And the bank said it had reviewed its third party processes, and decided 
only to accept dealing  instructions from customers or those with legal authority to act for 
them (through a POA).  It said it had done this to ensure it kept its customers data safe and 
secure.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Overall  she thought the changes 
NatWest had made to its offering were  reasonable and within  the scope of its commercial 
judgement to make. She was satisfied NatWest had told Mr B about the payment change  in 
good time, but thought  it ought to have done  more to tell him about the requirement for a 
POA. She said this would  have allowed  Mr B to put something in place or make  other  
arrangements in advance of when he anticipated needing his wife to act for him. She thought 
the bank should pay Mr B £50 to say sorry for that.
NatWest accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr B didnt.  He felt it was unfair  he 
was left either having to pay for a POA or to pay to move his account elsewhere in order to 
operate it as he wanted. He asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter  and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN24017932Firms are entitled to exercise their commercial judgement  and make  changes to the services 
they offer from time to time. And while the two changes NatWest has made  are ones that 
Mr B feels  make  the service  inferior, Im satisfied that they were  reasonable decisions for the 
bank to take.
Where NatWest changed its phone systems, it can no longer take card payments over the 
phone without breaching the relevant data storage regulations. And Im satisfied it continues 
to offer reasonable alternatives to Mr B to allow him to put money into his ISA. While  I 
appreciate that sending  cheques means funding his account may take longer, he has the 
option of opening a NatWest current account and using that to make direct bank transfer 
payments into his ISA. The bank gave Mr B two months notice  of the change, which I think  
gave him a reasonable amount of time to make  any arrangements he needed to in order  to 
fund the account.  So while I understand Mr Bs frustration  that he cant make  card payments 
as hed prefer, I dont think  NatWest has treated him unfairly.
With regard to the third party authority NatWest now requires, I can again understand why 
Mr B feels  the service is less flexible  than before. Hed previously been able to give written 
authority to let his wife trade  so he could allow for changes to his portfolio when he was 
unable to call the bank himself. But while I agree that theres  no legal requirement for 
NatWest to require  a POA, I think it is a reasonable decision for it to have taken and not one 
I think it would be appropriate  for me to interfere with.
NatWest has taken  a decision to ensure dealing instructions come from a customer directly,  
or someone  who has the legal authority in place through a POA.  This is because it needs to 
satisfy itself that the underlying customer has authorised  a particular transaction.  Given the 
increased prevalence  of banking fraud  and phishing type scams, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for NatWest to have decided  to amend the way it will allow third parties to act 
on accounts in this way. 
Ultimately Mr B continues to be able to use his account as he chooses. Theres  no 
requirement for NatWest  to allow other  parties to act for Mr B  he is their customer  and the 
account is in his sole name. So while I appreciate Mr B may be unhappy the way NatWest  
has changed its requirements affects his ability to let someone else use his account, I dont 
think in all the circumstances  it has treated him unfairly or unreasonably by making the 
change it did.
However, like our investigator,  I think NatWest ought to have been more  proactive in 
communicating this change to customers  especially those, like Mr B, it knew  had 
previously used a LOA to allow someone else to trade on his account.  And I think £50 is fair 
compensation for the inconvenience Mr B was caused at only discovering the change when 
attempting to put a new LOA in place  and have his wife immediately able to trade.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank plc must  pay 
Mr B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Ref: DRN24017933Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2401793