K821x#15complaint
Miss K says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says the loans  made her living  situation  unaffordable and she still cant  afford  to make 
the full loan repayments. 
background
This complaint is about nine home collected  credit  loans  and three  hire purchase loans, 
Mutual provided to Miss K between  May 2011 and February 2015. A summary of Miss Ks 
lending is shown below.  The hire purchase  agreements are loans 6, 7 and 9.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 28/05/2011 £500 102 20/06/2012
2 12/11/2011 £500 102 10/04/2013
3 23/06/2012 £700 102 29/01/2014
4 20/10/2012 £1,000 102 04/06/2014
5 16/03/2013 £700 102 10/02/2014
6 27/03/2013 £350 150 25/02/2015
7 18/05/2013 £400 150 04/03/2015
8 01/02/2014 £1,000 102 04/12/2016
9 22/03/2014 £650 150 outstanding
10 02/06/2014 £1,000 102 outstanding
11 18/10/2014 £1,000 102 outstanding
12 28/02/2015 £1,200 102 outstanding
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. She thought  that Mutual 
shouldnt have approved any lending from loan 4 onwards. This is because  she thought the 
pattern of lending itself was harmful at this point.  Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed  to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld  in part. 
Mutual, and Miss K, received my provisional  decision. An extract  from this provisional  
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision. 
Miss K didnt have  anything further to add. Mutual didnt agree with my provisional decision.  
It provided a lengthy  response,  in summary it said that:
1.I had considered these home collected  loans  in a similar way to high cost short  term 
credit. Mutuals home collected loans are not high cost credit, and they have a longer 
term, so its not right to do this. 
2.The letters sent by the regulator in October  2018  and March  2019 do not apply to 
Mutual. They were sent after the lending, and as its not a high cost short  term credit  
provider it didnt  receive the October 2018 letter  
3.These home collected loans are a low risk option  for the consumer, no ongoing costs 
are added and the consumer  is in control  of their payments as they pay cash  to the 
agent.
Ref: DRN275907324.Its loans are mid cost products. Mutual  are a lower  cost alternative to other  home 
credit providers.
5.It did proportionate checks before lending. The agent assessed  Miss Ks 
circumstances and it obtained credit reports.  These  checks showed the loans were 
affordable.
6.The FCA rules do not require that it verify information in every case, particularly 
where the costs  of borrowing  are low. 
7.Miss K was not always borrowing to the absolute  maximum of her affordability and 
credit worthiness. Mutual is not a lender  of last resort.
8.It is not correct to say that the longer the lending goes on then the greater  the risk to 
the consumer.  The FCA has found that long term users of home collected credit  do 
not suffer harm.  
9.Miss Ks pattern of lending itself is not unusual and did not show  she was in financial 
difficulty. Her income was sufficient to repay the credit and she had a track record of 
repaying the loans  on time.
10.There is no evidence  that longer term home credit  loans  cause harm  or loss in the 
same way shorter term loans do. And this would especially apply to Mutual who are a 
lower cost lender.
11.There is no evidence  that Miss K was dependent on this type of credit. The hire 
purchase agreements  themselves  were evidence  of this as they are used to borrow  
to purchase products,  not for cash.  
12.Miss K borrowed sustainably for four years and made the weekly  repayments over 
this very long period. This shows she could make the repayments sustainably.
13.Borrowing to cover a hole in your finances is not applicable to this type of credit, and 
there is no evidence  of Miss K doing  that. 
14.Whilst the loan amounts did increase this was over a long period. And so it is not an 
indication of dependence because of the long gap between increases.
15.The FCA has sought to encourage parallel and concurrent loans in this sector  as this 
is better for the consumer.
16.Even  if the complaint  is upheld then fair compensation would be to compare the 
lending with other home collected  loan providers. As Mutual is the lowest  cost 
provider in this sector, no compensation  would be due.
As no agreement was reached, Ive reconsidered the issues raised before making my final 
decision. Ive looked at each of the points  Mutual has raised below. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  Mutual Clothings response to my provisional decision, along with all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Having  done so, my decision remains the same. 
In responses Ive numbered 1 to 4 Mutual says that it shouldnt  be considered alongside 
other high cost credit providers. Mutual is regulated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and it has approval to arrange home credit and related hire purchase contracts. This 
complaint is about  this type of lending.  
These loans are considered to be high cost credit by the FCA. And I agree with this. There  
are many instances where  the FCA has confirmed this, for example its High Cost Credit  
Review (CP 18/43) contained  a section  about home collected credit and the home collected 
Ref: DRN27590733credit market. So Mutual is a high cost credit provider and the rules  regarding high cost 
credit apply to it. 
Much of Mutuals response  to my provisional decision is underpinned by its view that it 
provides a lower  or mid-cost cost form of credit  for its customers. Especially when 
considered against other home  collected  loan providers. And it thinks  this means it was a 
lower risk alternative for Miss K than other home  credit providers.  
Mutual outlined  in its response  to my provisional decision that if a consumer borrowed £100 
they would  typically  repay £140. Mutual says its comparative annual  percentage rate (APR) 
is 104%.  This is significantly  in excess of the average costs of mainstream credit such as 
credit cards or personal loans and is an expensive form of credit. Credit cards can be much  
lower than this at under 20% and sometimes personal loans can have an annual  percentage 
rate of under 5%. 
Of course,  I accept there are differences between products  in the high cost credit market.  
And the cost of a Mutual loan may be lower  than some alternatives, particularly shorter-term 
high cost products.  But it is still high cost credit and is typically taken by consumers who do 
not have access  to mainstream credit due to their financially precarious situation. And 
because of this I dont agree it was a lower  risk option for Miss K. 
In response number 2, Mutual referred  to the Dear  CEO letters  of October  2018  and the 
letter the FCA sent on 6 March 2019  to lenders within this sector. Mutual says it did not 
receive the first letter in October 2018.
I explained in my provisional decision  the relevance of both letters to Mutual. This is despite  
them being  sent after the lending  was issued. And whilst I appreciate Mutual does not fall 
within the FCA definition  of a high cost short term credit, I dont  agree this letter  does not 
apply to it. As I said in my provisional  decision the 6 March 2019 letter refers back to the 
October 2018 letter and states:
While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant to all 
firms in this portfolio 
This portfolio  is the high cost credit  portfolio,  of which Mutual is part. And whilst both letters 
were sent after the lending,  they arent about  any new rules,  but talk about how businesses 
ought to have been, and should going forward, be conducting themselves. Given  the rules  
that have existed for some time. So, I do think that they offer some insight into the FCAs 
perspective on the application  of rules that had gone before, and they are relevant in this 
case. And about  how complaints about  irresponsible lending should  be considered. Mutual 
should have been aware of all of the FCAs  letters  and publications about this sector.
I have reviewed the sale of these  loans with this in mind,  and confirm  that I consider it 
reasonable to describe Mutual as being a high cost credit provider, and to review the 
complaint in this light.
In responses 5 and 6, Mutual again said its checks were  proportionate. In my provisional 
decision I outlined what checks Mutual did and why I thought these  werent proportionate for 
some of the lending. I wont  repeat all of that here.  
I still think that the checks Mutual made  were  proportionate for loan 1. On balance,  and in 
this early stage of the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mutual  to rely on the 
Ref: DRN27590734information Miss K provided. And this showed that the lending  was likely to be affordable for 
Miss K over the period  the loan was intended to run for. 
But by loan 2, and for loan 3, I think Mutual  should have done more than rely on the 
information Miss K was providing about her finances. This was due to the amount and 
frequency of the lending so far. 
At loan 2 Miss K was returning to borrow another loan of £500. Yet the affordability 
assessment it carried out showed she had an income of £275 a week.  Miss K must have had 
some need  or want for this money,  and this could  have  been due to some significant  
financial problems. 
Mutual has said it wouldve determined  what this need or want was and it has outlined in 
some detail what its sale process should be (this is outlined in my provisional decision). And 
it says this process made sure it was appropriate  to lend. But I dont think its reasonable to 
say that all of the steps took place  here.  I dont think Mutual found  out what  the loans were 
for or that Miss K would sustainably afford to repay them.  
Looking at the purpose of the loans.  Mutual  has said it established why Miss K needed  to 
borrow when it approved loans 1, 4, 8 and 9. And loan 9 was in fact a hire purchase (HP) 
product. But I dont think Mutual  got to the bottom of this at all when looking at its lending 
pattern to Mss K. Mutuals  best evidence is that it asked about this in only one third of her 9 
non-HP loan applications. And this seems to be one or two words  on the application forms 
for very generic expenditures such as Christmas (in October  2014) and home 
improvements. In fact, I think  its reasonable to say that the majority  of the sections of the 
application forms that relate to Miss Ks circumstances  werent completed. This does not 
suggest a thorough assessment, although it of course doesnt automatically  mean  that all 
assessments were non-compliant.
Of course,  establishing what a loan is for doesnt  mean that it is affordable, or vice versa . But 
in an ongoing  lending relationship such as this, it is something that may form part of the 
overall picture, and indeed is something that Mutual  itself has highlighted to demonstrate  
how it chose to assess the affordability and sustainability  of this lending.  However,  a cursory 
look at Mutuals defence  on this point quickly shows how infrequently  it incorporated this into 
its checks, and how superficial questions were on the rare occasions  that it asked. It is 
because Mutual has raised  this issue that I address it here.
And to be clear, the overriding  reason  I think Mutuals checks werent proportionate is that 
Ive seen, at best,  little evidence that Mutual  took any steps to determine what expenditure 
Miss K had. Miss Ks expenditure shouldve been  an inalienable aspect of Mutuals enquiries 
and an integral part of a proportionate affordability check  into her circumstances.  I dont see 
how Mutual can say it identified lending as affordable unless it knew  what her existing 
expenditure was. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  the applications for the loans dont show that the 
expenditure section  was completed at all until loan 12. The documentation provided shows  
that Mutual relied  on what Miss K said about her income, but not much  else,  before 
approving these loans. Mutual has asserted that its agent would have  asked about  
expenditure, but that assertion is in no way supported  by any of the other available evidence,  
and so it would be irrational and unreasonable in my view for me to accept Mutuals 
assertion as most likely true.
Ref: DRN27590735So, given Mutuals obligations, I consider it fair, reasonable and proportionate for it to have 
taken further steps to ascertain her financial situation for loans 2 and 3. As I said in my 
provisional decision this is because,  even  though  the repayments were still relatively 
modest, Miss K needed a further loan around  six months after her first for the same amount, 
£500. This should have flagged to Mutual that it needed to ask questions. And loan 3 was for 
a higher amount, again a relatively short time afterwards.  When a consumer is increasing  
the amounts borrowed, without repaying existing loans, and extending the time needed  to 
repay the aggregate debt overall, there is a clear risk of ongoing  and/or increasing  financial 
problems. Mutual should  have  looked into this and made sure it wasnt the case. 
I think it should have  taken steps  at that time to have verified Miss Ks true financial position. 
It could have done this independently, or by asking Miss K to provide supporting evidence 
such as payslips, utility  bills, or bank statements. There is no set way it needed to verify  what  
it was being told, no specified documentation.  The regulations provide flexibility to lenders in 
how it completes reasonable and proportionate  checks. But I dont think  Mutuals checks 
achieved this. 
To help us understand for ourselves what Mutual would more likely than not have discovered 
if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks before providing these credit 
agreements, we would normally ask Miss K for her bank statements. But Miss K hasnt been 
able to provide  these.  So, I havent seen enough  to conclude that Miss K lost out as a result 
of Mutuals failure  to carry out proportionate checks. So, whilst I dont think  the checks for 
loans 2 and 3 went far enough, Im not upholding her complaint about loans 1 to 3. 
In response number 7 Mutual said that its not correct to say that Miss K was borrowing out 
of necessity and to the maximum she could borrow. But I havent said this. And Ive no 
reason to do so without  more detailed information  about Miss Ks expenditure. (Indeed,  
Mutual has no way of rationally saying  the opposite without more  information.)
I thought it was reasonable to say that from loan 4 onwards the lending  pattern itself was 
harmful. Mutual doesnt agree with this, and the responses numbered  8 to 15 are the points 
it raised in respect  of this repeat lending. Ive thought about these below. 
At loan 4 Mutual  ought to have realised Miss K was not managing  to repay  her loans 
sustainably, and Ill explain  why. At this point  Miss K had been indebted to Mutual for around  
15 months. I recognise that these loans were intended to be taken over the longer term. So, 
this in itself may not be a cause for concern. 
But Miss K had only repaid loan 1 (early  not in line with the initial  planned term  and 3 
days before  she took loan 3) when she took loan 4. Loans 2 and 3 were  still outstanding. 
And Miss Ks first loan was for £500, loan 2 was for £500 and loan 3 was for £700.  And loan 
4 was the largest yet at £1,000. The amount Miss K had borrowed had increased 
significantly. Shed started off with a loan of £500.  But by loan 4 she owed £2,200 over three 
loans. And her repayments had correspondingly increased. She was returning  for more 
borrowing every  4 to 7 months, and, as set out above, there  is no evidence that Mutual 
asked why she needed these sums, or asked  any questions  about her expenditure.
And even  if the amounts she owed on each  loan reduced with the repayments,  the fact that 
the amount she needed to borrow had increased significantly over this time, and the 
frequency with which she needed to do so, support my conclusions that Miss Ks 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN27590736It isnt the length  of time that Miss K owed Mutual money on its own that is a problem. I 
accept that is a feature of the terms of the loans. Its that this, together with overall 
increasing indebtedness; the amount and frequency of loans; and the increasing burden of 
repayments in aggregate  paint a picture  of someone struggling with their finances over a 
prolonged period. Ive gone  into some aspects of this below in more  detail to answer 
Mutuals points. 
I dont think this pattern  of lending shows she was taking these loans for a specific purpose 
and then repaying them over discrete  periods. As Ive detailed  above, the evidence from the 
time of sale doesnt  document this. The most  obvious pattern here is one of increasing and 
continued indebtedness over time with no information as to why, or evidence that she could 
afford the burgeoning repayments. And I think that it ought to have been apparent to Mutual 
that Miss K was unlikely to have been  using these loans as a useful means of managing  
cyclical income shortfalls, or to manage  occasional big expenses.
Mutual has said that it is isnt right to talk about the loan repayments affecting her finances 
and leaving  a hole she would need to repay. I appreciate this wouldnt have been as 
apparent or as immediate as, for example, it may be with a short-term loan. But this is still 
high cost credit that she was making ongoing  repayments towards. I cant  see how the loan 
repayments wouldnt have  affected  her finances in this way, indeed  over an even longer time 
period. 
I also note that loan 3 was given  only three  days after Miss K repaid loan 1 early,  so it didnt 
run to term.  I think this is persuasive evidence  to suggest that Miss K was in fact reborrowing 
to cover the repayments  she had made  to earlier loans  which  had left her short  of money.  
Again, Ive seen  no evidence  Mutual even considered,  never mind looked  into, this. 
As Mutual  has no evidence that it so much  as asked about her expenditure, I dont  find its 
arguments on this point persuasive.  I cant  see how it could have been confident  that Miss K 
wouldnt have needed to borrow further  in order to meet repayments.
This is exacerbated  as Miss K usually had more  than one loan repayment  to make. For 
example, when she took loan 6, her weekly repayment was just over £40. Mutual  recorded  
her income as £250 a week at this point.  I dont think  this was a small proportion of her 
income, especially  as it needed to be repaid week after week, so was a long-term  and 
frequent call on her. 
Whilst I dont have  detailed financial information  about Miss Ks expenditure, the application 
information shows that her income  largely  came  from benefits. This included child-related  
payments and any partner  details are usually not completed or crossed  out. But even these 
very sparse  details, and that fact the borrowing itself demonstrates an ongoing a need for 
further money, suggests to me she had very little, if any, spare income.  So I think  these 
increasing weekly repayments would likely lead to her needing  to borrow again  to replace 
this expenditure.  
Indeed, this was sadly  borne out going forward. I said in my provisional decision Miss K 
didnt make any real inroads to the amounts she owed Mutual.  Loan  12 was taken  out not far 
short of four years after Miss Ks first. And it was for a larger  amount. Miss K had paid large 
amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a growing  aggregate debt to Mutual over this 
extended period.  So the longer  term of each loan doesnt eliminate concerns  on this point, 
when the full lending relationship is looked  at. I think enabling this growing aggregate debt 
was unfair.  
Ref: DRN27590737So I still think that at loan 4 Mutual ought  to have recognised at least  the possibility that it 
was likely Miss K had an ongoing  need for this type of credit and was becoming dependent 
on it. 
Mutual has referred to the publications by the FCA that is says shows that longer term 
borrowing is not harmful in this sector. Again, I wont repeat all of what  I said in my 
provisional decision, but it is worth revisiting  some  aspects  of the FCAs publications.  
Mutual has referred to the FCAs High-Cost  Credit Review (CP 18/43). Whilst the review  
highlighted that those who use home  credit  over longer periods do not appear  to suffer 
significant harm  in the same way as other parts of the high cost credit  markets, it does not 
mean that they do not suffer harm at all, and in fact is worded in such  a way that leaves 
open the possibility that harm can be suffered.
Indeed, the high cost credit review also highlights  says:  there  are existing controls  that 
reduce the risk of unaffordable debt and financial distress. In brief these are assessing  
creditworthiness, monitoring repayment  patterns,  and not encouraging  unsustainable 
lending.
Ive already explained why I think that Mutuals  creditworthiness assessments werent fair, 
reasonable and proportionate and therefore werent effective. And I also dont think  it 
monitored Miss Ks lending history itself as it was required to do. 
Ill reiterate that the FCAs consultation paper (CP 18/12) section 3.14 says that:
we are concerned  that there is a small core of customers who are using home-
collected credit over an extended period  and that some customers  are being unduly  
influenced by firms  representatives to keep borrowing.
Given Miss K had owed  Mutual money  for an unbroken period of approaching  four years, its 
possible that the regulator had customers such as Miss K in mind  with the above statement 
concerning the small core. I certainly  think it is entirely reasonable to describe four years as 
an extended period.
And the FCA published a paper on 6 August 2020 aimed at the whole high cost credit 
market about  repeat  lending, and home-collected credit was again included. This paper 
reinforces that fact that these publications  are aimed  at all lenders in the portfolio  which  
includes Mutual. And, again,  it covers the FCAs view of past events and so it isnt a 
retrospective application of the rules. It said that:
We are concerned in some instances  to see levels of debt and repayments  increase  
significantly. We saw levels  of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period.
And 
At some  point,  rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become 
unsustainable for customers. From our consumer research, we are concerned  that 
firms are lending to customers  beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and 
causing customer harm  as a result.
Ref: DRN27590738As can be seen above, Miss Ks lending and repayments did increase  significantly over a 
similar period. And the later loans were clearly  unaffordable  for her as she was unable  to 
repay them. So the evidence does not suggest that Mutual effectively monitored Miss Ks 
relationship and lending history with it.
As I said in my provisional decision,  while I can acknowledge that the FCA has said that 
repeat lending wont always lead to an unfair outcome for consumers, the FCAs publications 
dont state that repeat  lending (where home-collected credit  is concerned)  will always be fair 
reasonable and proportionate in all circumstances. Indeed, that would be an illogical  fallacy.  
And I dont  think the repeat lending here was reasonable.
Mutual has acknowledged the need  to be careful when lending to any small core  who may 
be using home collected  credit  unsustainably, but it doesnt think that this descriptor applied  
to Miss K. But bearing in mind what the FCA has said about time periods and increasing 
borrowing, and for the reasons I have already explained, I think  the history of borrowing itself 
showed that the lending  had become unsustainable  and Miss K could reasonably be 
considered within that cohort.
It is worth adding  that, while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent with the 
content of the FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required by statute to decide what  I 
think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of Miss Ks case.  
In point 16 Mutual, has talked about the 2020 High Court judgement in the case  of Kerrigan 
vs Elevate Credit International Limited. Mutual drew  on the Courts  findings to question  
assumptions about what might have  happened  had it declined  the lending in question, and 
so Miss K had had to apply to a third-party lender. And if she had done that, then no loss has 
been suffered  as Mutual states it is the cheapest provider of home  credit.
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened  had it stopped lending to Miss K from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.  
For example, having been declined this lending Miss K may have simply left matters  there,  
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere   particularly as a relationship  existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt  
a viable option, she may have looked  to borrow  the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach  a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different  application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available  to such a lender  and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application  which may or may not have  been  the same  is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.  From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly  dont 
think I can fairly conclude there  was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these  possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude  that Miss K would more likely than not have  taken up any one of 
these options.  So it wouldnt  be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what  Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should  put right.
Ref: DRN27590739Taking everything into account,  including Mutuals latest submissions, Im not persuaded to 
depart from the compensation I outlined  in my provisional decision, as no persuasive 
evidence has been given to me to suggest  I should.  
So given all of the above Im upholding  Miss Ks complaint about loans 4 to 12 and Mutual 
should put things right. 
putting things right  what Mutual needs to do
Mutual shouldnt  have given Miss K loans 4 to 12.
If Mutual has sold any outstanding debts it should  buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back  then Mutual should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A)Mutual should add together  the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Mutual has already refunded.
B)Mutual should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments  made  by 
Miss K which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Mutual should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Miss K as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Miss K 
having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Mutual should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss K. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Mutual should  try to agree  an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss K. Mutual  shouldnt pursue outstanding  balances made up of principal 
Mutual has already  written-off.
E)The overall pattern  of Miss Ks borrowing  for loans 4 to 12 means any information  
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should  remove  these loans entirely from 
Miss Ks credit file. Mutual does not have to remove loans 9 to 12 from Miss Ks 
credit file until these have been  repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these  loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual  to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual  should  
give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN275907310Mutual Clothing and Supply  Company  Limited  should put things  right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN275907311extract from my provisional  decision
When the complaint  was first brought here Mutual said that the first two loans shouldnt be within this 
Services jurisdiction as they were brought to late. I can see that Mutual  gave this Service its consent 
to consider these loans  to our adjudicator in November  2018. So they are all now within my 
jurisdiction. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought  that Mutual shouldnt have approved any 
lending from loan 4 onwards. This is because she thought the pattern of lending itself was harmful at 
this point. 
Miss K didnt provide any further evidence or arguments. Mutual a disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. It said that, using its own summary:
It is inappropriate to apply an arbitrary "More  than 3 loans is unaffordable" criteria
Repeat lending  and long-term use of home credit is common and the FCA have found it is not 
harmful to consumers
Its loans  are not "high interest" as described  by the adjudicator
There is no evidence to support the adjudicator's assertion that the length of time a borrower 
is indebted for is an indicator of unsustainable lending  in home credit.
No consideration of the customer's financial  circumstances,  level of income and non 
discretionary expenditure had been made by the adjudicator. These are fundamental  aspects 
of the affordability assessments contained in the FCA's rules
No evidence has been provided  by the customer or considered by the adjudicator
No assessment of what "reasonable" checks would  have shown  has been undertaken by the 
adjudicator which  is contrary to how the ombudsman services says it will consider  affordability 
complaints as published on the FOS website
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
the legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading  (up to 31 March  2014) 
Mutual gave  Miss K her first nine loans  in the period up to the end of March 2014.  During this time it 
needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT), in order to carry out consumer 
credit activities.  
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider when 
deciding whether  to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said: 
(1) In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things)  
(a) the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  businesses;  
(b) such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under the 
licence; 
(c) practices and procedures that the applicant  proposes  to implement in connection 
with any such business;  
(d) evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A) 
Ref: DRN275907312(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's  
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a body 
corporate, any person  appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate or an 
associate of any such person, has 
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence; 
(b) contravened any provision made by or under 
(i) this Act; 
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  
to the consumer credit  jurisdiction under that Part; 
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened  any provision in force in an EEA State  which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b); 
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection  with, the carrying on of any business; or 
(e) engaged in business  practices  appearing  to the OFT to be deceitful  or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful  or not) [my 
emphasis]. 
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 25(2A(e))  and 
said: 
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending [my emphasis]. 
In March 2010, as required  by s.25A,  the OFT produced guidance on the test for irresponsible lending  
for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. And so it issued its guidance  on 
irresponsible lending (ILG). 
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome in Miss 
Ks case. The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said: 
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) considers 
may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business 
practices which, if engaged in by a consumer  credit business, could call into consideration  its fitness 
to hold a consumer credit  licence. 
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.  
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 2.1 says: 
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending. 
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says: 
In general terms,  creditors should: 
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking  to enforce a 
credit agreement
Ref: DRN275907313make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner 
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an informed  
choice 
monitor the borrower's  repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat borrowers fairly  and 
with forbearance if they experience difficulties  
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:  
In addition to the above there should be: 
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products that are 
clearly unsuitable for them,  subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive 
behaviour or inappropriate  coercion, or conduct which is deceitful,  oppressive, unfair or 
improper, whether unlawful  or not 
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor credit 
history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be 
targeted or exploited. 
Section four of the guidance  is concerned  with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:  
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document). 
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which involves a 
creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake  a specific  credit commitment,  or specific additional 
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences. 
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says: 
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question. 
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's  likely ability  to be able to meet repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 says: 
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower: 
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness 
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time 
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets. 
Ref: DRN275907314Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says: 
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted): 
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and; 
without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments. 
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the issues that 
might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes  factors such  as:
the type of credit product; 
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower; 
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought; 
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or having 
experienced) financial  difficulty 
the vulnerability of the borrower 
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information  that a lender might use to 
assess affordability, including:
evidence of income 
evidence of expenditure  
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency 
information obtained  from the borrower  through a form or a meeting  
Section 4.15 concerns  the verification of income and expenditure for the purposes of making an 
appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:  
In our view,  creditors  who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or expenditure as part 
of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept information provided by the borrower without 
any supporting evidence or, in the alternative, do not seek any information on income and/or 
expenditure at all as part of their assessment, should ensure that whatever  means and sources of 
information they employ are sufficient to make  an appropriate  assessment. We do not consider  that 
self-certification of income would generally  be sufficient in respect of significant long-term credit  
agreements, particularly those secured on property. 
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term credit. It 
says: 
Whilst the OFT accepts,  as a general  principle  from a proportionality perspective,  that the level of 
scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than for large sum 
and/or long term credit,  we consider that creditors should also take account  of the fact that the risk of 
the credit being unsustainable would be directly related  to the amount of credit granted (and 
associated interest / charges etc.) relative  to the borrowers financial situation 
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices 
relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would include where  a lender 
is: 
Failing to undertake a reasonable  assessment  of affordability  in an individual case  or cases 
Section 4.21 gives another example: 
Ref: DRN275907315Failing to consider sufficient  information  to be able to reasonably assess affordability,  prior to granting 
credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly increasing  the credit  
limit (in the case  of a running  account credit  agreement) 
This could (but not necessarily) include for example:  

Where applicable, appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details  of current  income  and/or 
expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies of payslip/contract of employment (when a 
borrower is in employment), accountants letters (where a borrower  is self-employed) or benefit  
statements (where a borrower is not in employment). 
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if: 
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable. 
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed  by the customer. 4.29 
says it would  be an unsatisfactory  business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure  that information on a 
credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete  and correct. 
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to: 
[Accept] an application for credit under  circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be 
suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with regards 
to the information supplied relevant to inform  an assessment of affordability 
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s)  have  been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is: 
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record 
Section 6.2 goes on to say: 
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of apparent 
/ possible repayment difficulties. 
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation  implementing the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point  the ILG was amended to reflect  any changes 
required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional requirement on a lender  to carry  out an 
Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of 
Consumer Credit  providers passed to the FCA in April 2014. 
Section 55B said: 
Assessment of creditworthiness 55B 
(1) Before  making  a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the 
creditor must undertake  an assessment of the creditworthiness of the debtor. 
(2) Before  significantly increasing 
Ref: DRN275907316(a) the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
other than an excluded  agreement,  or 
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake  
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.  
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from
(a) the debtor, where appropriate,  and 
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary. 
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is 
(a) an agreement secured on land, or 
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn.. 
By the time of loan 10 and for all of Miss Ks subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards)  this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the rules  of 
the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Mutual gave  Miss K these  agreements  after the regulation of Consumer  Credit  Licensees had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.  Mutual initially 
obtained interim permission to provide consumer  credit before it went  on to successfully apply for 
authorisation. Mutuals interim permission  to provide consumer credit and its eventual  authorisation  to 
do so meant  that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.  
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  
relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which  says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Mutual. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
The starting  point for the relevant rules is Section  5.2.1R(2) of CONC which  sets out what a lender 
needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer credit  of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge  for credit  relative to the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking
Ref: DRN275907317about affordability. And CONC  5.3.1G(1)  says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability to repay the
credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should
include the firm taking reasonable  steps  to assess the customers ability  to meet repayments
under a regulated  credit  agreement  in a sustainable  manner without  the customer  incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where
the firm knows or ought  reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in
completing the application  in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant  to the
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated  to the High Cost Lenders portfolio,  which  Mutual is part of. This letter  was published 
after Miss Ks agreements  were entered into. But given  that this letter didnt include any new rules  and 
deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about whether their previous lending  was 
unaffordable, I do think that it offers some insight  on the FCAs  perspective on the rules. So I do 
consider it to be of some relevance in this case.
The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers
and the markets  they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its view of the
key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed
their strategies and business  models. We considered  a wide range of information  and data,
including firms  regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and findings  from
the HCCR. We also carried  out diagnostic  work on guarantor lenders,  which involved  issuing
a data request  to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways  that consumers may be harmed across the
High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume  of relending, which  may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient, leading  to loans that customers  may not be able 
to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio  on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending:  We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in the
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic  work across  the portfolio  so that we can better
understand the motivation  for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and firms. This
Ref: DRN275907318work will examine  aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms
marketing strategies  for offering additional credit and the costs of relending for consumers.
We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this
work, we will proactively engage with home-collected  credit firms to ensure they understand
our expectations. We will also discuss  any changes to their processes  as a result of the new
rules and guidance on relending which  we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement
on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these  firms in assessing
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit customers finances
are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and low financial resilience.
Nevertheless, firms  must  ensure that they are complying with all our affordability
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear CEO  letter we sent to
HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms,  the main
principles are relevant  to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled  Complaints  it says:
Complaints: We know that there have  been  increasing numbers of complaints about many
of the products in this portfolio. Firms  should ensure that they are handling complaints
appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including  analysing the root
causes of complaints and taking  into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant
decisions. We gave further detail about  what we expect from firms  complaint-handling
procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued  to HCSTC firms in October  2018. This is
equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Turning to the Dear  CEO letter  issued  by the FCA on 15 October 2018, the third paragraph of this 
letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published  four examples of determinations of
individual complaints  about payday loans to illustrate  its approach to the issues raised  in
those complaints (see:  https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm).
If relevant, firms should take these examples of determinations  into account as part of
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling  (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged
in our price cap proposals  in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we were
concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on HCSTC that is
harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability assessments were  key to
avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making  responsible
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance and law, I think the overarching questions  I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Mutual,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss K would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Miss K wouldve been  able to do so?
Ref: DRN275907319Bearing in mind  the circumstances, at the time of each application,  was there a point  where 
Mutual ought reasonably  to have realised it was increasing Miss Ks indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did Mutual  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine  that Mutual did not act fairly and reasonably  in its dealings  with Miss K and that she has 
lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Mutual, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
K would be able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment  of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would likely 
need to be flexible. That is to say, what  is sufficient  for one consumer might not be for another, or 
indeed what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same 
consumer in other  circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might  point  to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include, but are not limited 
to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to repay a given loan 
amount from a lower  level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely 
to be greater and the customer  is required  to make payments for an extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given the credit  (reflecting the risk that ongoing use of 
these agreements  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Mutual considers its checks  were  proportionate. It told us as part of its affordability assessment, its 
representative visited  the customers home and carried out a detailed income  and expenditure  
assessment. Mutual  says,  because its agent is with the customer to gather the information they can 
challenge and verify any income or expenditure which does not appear to be reasonable. 
It says that it also provided the customer details  of the loan or hire-purchase agreement at this face to 
face meeting - this included details of the total amount repayable, weekly repayments,  interest costs 
and APR. The agent then returned with the loan or credit  application where  their line manager either 
approved or refused the credit. The manager made a manual  underwriting assessment with input 
from the agent about  the customers  circumstances. The manager also referred any previous 
payment history and carried out a full credit check. 
Ref: DRN275907320I think  this was proportionate for loan 1. Mutual recorded Miss Ks income  as being  around £275 a 
week. This was a mixture  of employment and benefit income. I cant  see that Mutual recorded  any 
information about Miss Ks expenditure  at this point. The agreement was set up to run for a very long 
time at 102 weeks. But the weekly repayment of £7.59 was a modest proportion of Miss Ks income.  
So, on balance,  and in this early stage of the lending  relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mutual 
to rely on the information it was provided. And this showed that the lending was likely to be affordable  
for Miss K, even over this prolonged period.  
But by loan 2, and for loan 3. I think Mutual should  have done more than rely on the information  Miss 
K was providing  about her finances. I say this because, even though the repayments were still 
relatively modest Miss K had needed a further loan around six months after her first for the same 
amount, £500.   Miss K was also paying towards the first loan agreement and she needed  to sustain 
her repayments over a further  102 weeks. 
I think  that Mutual ought to have questioned why it was Miss K wanted further credit - if she genuinely  
had the levels of income she had declared. That is to say, it should have questioned why she needed  
two loans  of £500, which was around four weeks of her income, over a relatively short period. 
So given Mutuals obligations, I consider  it fair, reasonable  and proportionate for it to have taken  
further steps to ascertain that this genuinely was the case,  by the time of the second loan and for all 
the subsequent agreements. I think it should have taken steps at that time to have verified Miss Ks 
true financial  position. It could have done this independently or by asking Miss K to provide  supporting 
evidence such as payslips,  utility bills, or bank statements. I dont think Mutuals checks  achieved  this. 
In particular, Ive seen  very little evidence  that it looked at Miss Ks expenditure  at all for these  earlier 
loans. 
I say this while also mindful of the fact that the various rules and regulations in place  at the time 
Mutual was lending  to Miss K also make it clear that where income and expenditure  is used in an 
affordability assessment,  it may not be proportionate to rely solely on a statement of these matters 
made by the borrower.        
To help us understand for ourselves what Mutual would  more  likely than not have  discovered if it had 
completed reasonable  and proportionate checks  before providing these credit agreements, we would  
normally ask Miss K for her bank statements. But Miss K hasnt been able to provide these. So I 
havent seen enough to conclude that Miss K lost out as a result of this. So Im not minded to uphold  
her complaint about loans 1 to 3. 
Mutual said in response to the opinion  that our adjudicator hadnt fully considered  Miss Ks income  
and expenditure. And this would be fundamental to any consideration of the affordability of a loan. But 
Mutual didnt  look at Miss Ks expenditure at all until much later on in the lending. I cant see how it 
can say that it undertook proper affordability  checks without this information. And, as I said above,  I 
dont have enough information at present to look at this fully here. 
I dont think I need to recreate individual,  proportionate affordability  checks from loan 4 onwards in 
this case.  Ill explain why in the next section.
Bearing in mind  the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point  where Mutual  
ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing  Miss Ks indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful  and so shouldnt have  provided further  loans?
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Miss K by Mutual, 
I also think  its fair and reasonable  to look at the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of Miss Ks lending history with Mutual. This is because,  there may come a point where  the 
lending history  and pattern of lending  itself demonstrates that the lending  was unsustainable.
Looking at the relevant  rules  and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my decision,  Mutual  
was required to establish whether Miss K could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the 
Ref: DRN275907321loan payments were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because CONC defines  sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer  
should be able to make  repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. I think this point was reached by loan 4.
At this point Mutual ought to have realised Miss K was not managing to repay  her loans 
sustainably. Miss K had been indebted to Mutual for around 15 months. So Mutual ought to 
have realised it was more likely  than not Miss K was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole making her previous  loan repayments was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ks 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Miss Ks first loan was for £500 and loan 4 was for £1,000. So the amount Miss K was 
borrowing had doubled.   At this point Mutual ought to have known that it was likely Miss K an 
ongoing need  for this type of credit and was dependent on it.  
From loan 4 onwards  Miss K was provided with a new loan whilst she hadnt repaid other 
loans. She often  had more  than one loan running at once.  
Miss K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 12 was taken 
out not far short of four years after Miss Ks first. And it was for a larger amount. Miss K had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Mutual  over an extended period.
I think  that Miss K lost out because  Mutual continued to provide borrowing  from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ks indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time.
the length  of time over which Miss K borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  for these high-cost 
loans.
Mutual has referred to the FCAs High-cost  Credit Review (CP 18/43) and whilst the review 
highlighted that those who use home credit over longer  period do not appear to suffer significant  harm  
in the same way as other parts of the high cost credit markets, it does not follow  that users of home  
credit never  suffer any financial distress. Indeed, the review also highlights that:
there are existing  controls that reduce the risk of unaffordable  debt and financial distress.  These 
include that: 
Firms  must assess  creditworthiness (including affordability) before agreeing any new loan, or 
any significant increase  in credit.
Firms  also have to monitor consumers  repayment  patterns to identify  signs of financial 
distress. They  must  take appropriate action where  there are signs of actual or possible 
repayment difficulties. 
Firms  must also not encourage  a customer to refinance  where the commitments are not 
sustainable or are not in the customers best interests, or do so without the customers 
consent/request.
Ive already explained in this decision why I think that Mutuals creditworthiness  assessments werent 
fair, reasonable and proportionate  and therefore were unlikely to be effective.
And the consultation paper  CP 18/12 section 3.14 states that:
Ref: DRN275907322we are concerned that there is a small  core of customers who are using home-collected
credit over an extended  period and that some customers are being unduly influenced  by
firms representatives  to keep borrowing.
So, while I acknowledge that the FCA has said that repeat lending wont always  lead to an unfair 
outcome for consumers, the FCAs publications dont specifically state (as they could have) that 
repeat lending (where  home-collected  credit is concerned) will always be fair reasonable and 
proportionate in all circumstances.
It is worth adding that while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent  with the content of the 
FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required to decide what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of Miss Ks case.  
In this particular case Miss K was in debt to Mutual for around a year and a half when she took loan 4. 
And she hadnt repaid  loans 2 and 3. I think that it ought to have been apparent to Mutual  that Miss K 
was unlikely to have been using these loans as a useful  means of managing cyclical income shortfalls 
 especially as the loan amounts and total repayments increased. 
Did Mutual act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything  here that leads me to 
conclude Mutual acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss K in some other way.
Ref: DRN2759073