K822xComplaint
Mr R complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) imposed unfair  charges after 
he returned a car he had acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
Background 
Mr Rs finance agreement  came  to an end and his car was collected by an agent  acting for 
FCA. The agent noted a number of areas  of damage and in due course FCA charged him 
£572.79 which included  a collection fee of £138.29. Mr R disputed the charges for damage 
and FCA agreed to write off one of the items and then a second  one. The matter was passed 
to the FCA complaints team  and it agreed to write  off the full charge, including  the 
undisputed collection  fee. It also apologised for its handling of the matter.
Shortly before it did so Mr R brought his complaint to this service. In addition  to disputing  the 
charges for damage Mr R said he had contacted the Financial Conduct  Authority  had had 
been advised to bring  a complaint. He said it had taken FCA 10 weeks to respond to him 
and it had failed  to put his debt on hold while it was being disputed.
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She noted  FCA hadnt treated Mr Rs initial challenge of the charges as a complaint 
and this contributed  to the eight week deadline being missed.  As far as the charges for 
damage were concerned  she noted that FCA had forgone these and she didnt consider it 
necessary to review  them in detail. 
She explained that Mr R had accepted  that FCA was entitled  to charge the collection fee and 
he had paid that. As far as the pursuit of the disputed debt was concerned she thought FCA 
was simply ensuring Mr R was informed of what it considered to be his liability.  She didnt 
believe its actions had been threatening or the cause of distress.
.
Mr R didnt agree and asked a number of questions about FCAs procedures. He said that 
the claim for damages was clearly erroneous.  He said FCA had failed to appreciate that the 
damages claim was wrong  on several  occasions. He felt its failure to meet  Financial Conduct 
Authority regulations had been  treated with contempt. It had failed to respond to his emails  
and it didnt appear to have  a proper dispute procedure.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
As such I can only look at what happened  to Mr R when his car was collected and the 
ensuing events as they affected  him. I can understand  that Mr R has felt frustrated  with 
FCAs handling of the matter and its pursuit of the claim. However, I dont consider FCA 
need to more. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN24936432FCA follows the BVRLA guidelines on what constitutes fair wear  and tear. These endeavour 
to define what  is fair wear  and tear as objectively as possible, but they are guidelines and 
are open  to interpretation. That said I consider that the claim for the chip to the windscreen 
to be clearly incorrect. However, I consider FCA had grounds  for pursuing a claim for several  
other areas of damage. The fact it decided to write off the charges as a matter of goodwill 
doesnt mean that it didnt have grounds  for the original claim.  
Subsequently it decided  that the photographic  evidence of the car wasnt  sufficiently  clear  to 
pursue the charges and I consider that to have been a fair conclusion. But I dont  believe  it 
was unreasonable for several employees of FCA to have  taken  a different view.
It is unfortunate that Mr Rs challenge of the charges  wasnt registered a complaint  and so 
the eight week  time limit was breached. Had it done so I suspect Mr R would have received 
a response within eight weeks, even if that was only a holding  letter.  I dont consider that the 
delay was unduly stressful or indeed  unreasonable. It is not with my remit to comment on 
FCAs internal procedures more widely.
While it might have  been  better  if FCA had withheld pursuit of the debt I dont believe Mr R 
was significantly disadvantaged by this. He was aware the issue  was being considered by 
this service and routed  his concerns though  us. No forcing action was taken to collect the 
money.
Mr R is entitled to some compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused 
and I think the refund  if the undisputed collection fee can be taken as fair compensation. 
My final decision
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd has in effect  already  made an offer to pay £138.29 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd should  pay £138.29 if it has not already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2493643