K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC charged her a balance  transfer fee.
background
Mrs R opened a Tesco credit card account with a 0% balance  transfer  offer with no fee if a 
transfer was made within 90 days of opening  the account. Mrs R says that after opening the 
account she received  an e-mail which said you will receive 0% interest  on all purchases for 
12 months and 0% on all balance transfers for 12 months (0% fee) from the day you opened 
account. She says because of that e-mail  she made a second  balance transfer as she 
believed she wouldnt be charged  a balance transfer fee. Mrs R says she was then unfairly  
charged interest and a balance transfer  fee of £77.65.
Tesco doesnt accept  making a mistake  and says it provided information about the 
requirement to make  a balance transfer  within 90 days to avoid a fee in the credit  card terms 
and conditions. It accepts  the e-mail doesnt  make  mention of the 90 days  but says it 
couldnt include all of the terms and conditions within  it. Tesco has agreed  as a gesture of 
goodwill to refund the interest but will not refund  the fee as it says it was applied in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator accepted  
the account terms and conditions  made clear a balance transfer had to be completed within  
90 days to avoid a fee. But the e-mail  made no reference to the 90 days  and thought Mrs R 
relied on it and reasonably thought  she now had a year to make  the transfer to avoid the fee. 
The investigator didnt  think Mrs R should have queried it or gone  back to Tesco  to check  
when she made the second transfer as she relied  on what was said in the e-mail.  The 
investigator thought  Tesco should  refund  the balance transfer fee of £77.65.
Tesco doesnt agree  with the investigators view and has asked that it be reviewed. It says in 
summary that the e-mail  was just a reminder  of the introductory offer and so Mrs R should  
have known the 90 day condition applied. It says Mrs R should  have queried the point before 
proceeding as the e-mail contradicted her understanding  of the terms and conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mrs R agreed to. I dont 
think there is any doubt that those terms and conditions make clear  that a balance transfer 
must take place within 90 days  of account opening to avoid a balance  transfer fee. So I think  
that if the e-mail  hadnt  been sent then Mrs R could have no complaint about Tesco applying 
a fee in these  circumstances.
Ive looked carefully  at the e-mail Tesco sent Mrs R and Im satisfied that the clear 
impression it gives is, that if a balance transfer  is made within 12 months then there is a 0% 
balance transfer  fee. Im also satisfied that the e-mail makes no reference to the 90 day 
period or that restrictions apply to that offer. I appreciate that Tesco says not all terms and 
conditions can be included in an e-mail of this nature and I accept  that. But I think  the e-mail 
Ref: DRN28915372is misleading and it wouldnt have been  difficult to add the line for transfers made within  90 
days of opening.
I think Mrs R relied on the e-mail  as she immediately contacted Tesco  when she became 
aware of the fee and provided  us with a copy of the e-mail. And Im satisfied that she 
reasonably came to the conclusion that Tesco was in effect extending the introductory offer 
from 90 days to 12 months.  I dont think in those  circumstances Mrs R ought to have queried 
the correct position as I think she thought the e-mail  was clear. 
Overall I appreciate that Tesco  sent the e-mail  in good faith to remind  a customer of the 
introductory offers available. But for the reasons  Ive explained Im satisfied the e-mail  was 
misleading and Im satisfied Mrs R relied upon  it.
So I think the fairest approach would be for Tesco to refund  the balance  transfer  fee of 
£77.65
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
refund the balance  transfer fee of £77.65 to Mrs R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2891537