K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about charges applied  to her account by The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Mrs J had an account with RBS which was closed in 2014. In late 2018,  she contacted RBS 
to complain about charges applied to the account  in relation to Direct Debits, unauthorised 
overdrafts and standing  orders.  She said the charges were disproportionate, caused  her 
financial hardship and put her into a cycle of charges she couldnt  break  out of. She asked 
RBS to refund all the charges which had been  applied to her account and pay her interest.  
RBS say they discussed the complaint with Mrs J by telephone in early  December 2018 and 
sent her a final response letter  on the same day. They say that, although  they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong,  they sent her a cheque for around £190  as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs J brought her complaint to this service in February 2019. Our adjudicator explained  that 
we couldnt look at charges applied before February 2013 due to the time limits which apply  
to complaints brought to this service. He said he could look at her complaint  from that date 
onwards and Mrs J asked him to do so.
Our adjudicator found that no charges had been  applied to the account in the period from 
February 2013 onwards. So he didnt think RBS had acted unfairly  and didnt ask them  to do 
anything. Mrs J wasnt happy with our adjudicators  findings and asked  for her case  to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. She says the charges caused her financial difficulty and put 
her into a spiral of debt,  meaning she had to resort  to payday loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The dispute  resolution rules (DISP) which apply to this service set out what we can and cant  
look at. DISP 2.8.2 says that the Financial Ombudsman Service  cannot consider a complaint 
which is referred to us more than (a) six years after the event complained  of; or (if later)  (b) 
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The rule does allow us to consider an older  complaint  if there are exceptional circumstances 
which mean the complainant couldnt comply  with the time limits. But thats not the case here.
Mrs J says the period  shes  complaining about is from around 2006  to around 2013.  
Because thats more than six years ago, I need to consider  when she ought reasonably to 
have become aware that she had cause  to complain. Our investigator  thought  that was 
before February  2013. Looking at all the available information, I agree that Mrs J should 
have been aware  of the charges and any problems with them  before then. Thats because 
RBS and their agents were in contact with her before 2013 about  the arrears  on her account. 
But the complaint wasnt  brought to this service until February 2019. So I can only look back  
six years  from then,  to February  2013.
Ref: DRN28030002From the information available  to me, Im satisfied that the last time a charge was applied  to 
Mrs Js account was in June 2011. Thats outside  the timeframe  I can look at, so I cant  
make a decision about any charges up to that point. But Im satisfied that no charges were 
applied to Mrs Js account in the period which Im looking at. So I cant  conclude that RBS 
have done anything wrong.
Im also satisfied that RBS sent a final response letter to Mrs J in early December 2018.  And 
the information theyve provided confirms that they sent her a cheque  at that time, which was 
cashed a few days later. So I think RBS have acted fairly here and Im not going to ask them  
to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2803000