K821x#15Complaint
Mr H, a sole trader, complains that Ulster Bank Ltd made his business account inactive
without informing him.
Background
Mr H has a US dollar holding account with Ulster, which he uses to receive  payments for
orders and services related to his business. In February 2019, Mr H expected  to receive
$3,000 as a deposit  for an order. He contacted  Ulster when this payment didnt arrive and
the bank told him the payment had been  blocked  due to account inactivity.
Mr H was in contact with Ulster  in the weeks that followed because  he hadnt received
confirmation that the funds had been returned to the senders account. Mr H complained
about the delay in the funds being returned  and because his account was made  inactive
without him being  notified. Mr H says he suffered a financial loss because he had to pause
work on the order  he says hes now €1,630  worse  off as a result.
In its reply, Ulster  confirmed  that the funds had now been returned and Mr Hs account was
now active. Ulster accepted that it shouldve  notified  Mr H beforehand that his account would
be made inactive and paid him £200  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him.
The bank also refunded him £27 for the cost of the calls he made  about  this issue.
Ulster didnt  agree that it was responsible for the financial loss Mr H experienced, so Mr H
asked this service to step in. Our investigator  acknowledged that Ulster had done something
wrong and concluded that the compensation it had paid was fair. The investigator didnt
agree that Ulster was responsible for Mr Hs financial loss.
Mr H disagreed. He says he had to adjust the timetable  for the order and needed to place
equipment in storage while he waited for the funds to return to the sender. Mr H thinks Ulster
made an error in the way it sent the funds  back  because it took several weeks for this to
process. As he didnt  agree, the complaint has been passed to me for review.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision, explaining what I think Ulster did wrong  and what it should 
do to put things right:
Ulster told us that Mr Hs account  had no activity on it for six months  so his account was
made inactive. I havent seen anything in its terms to say it could do this without notifying
Mr H beforehand.
Ulster already accepts  that it shouldve notified  Mr H first and it has compensated him £200
for the trouble and upset  it caused him. However, this problem was later followed by a delay
in tracing the payment.
Mr H says that it took around  six weeks for the funds to return  to the senders account. I can
see from the information Ulster provided that Mr H got in touch regularly to find out where
the funds were. Mr H appeared to be in regular  contact  with the sender throughout this
period and was told that the funds  had not arrived back in their account.
But Ulster says it sent the funds back straight  away and any delay  wasnt because of
Ref: DRN29620032something it did wrong. Its unclear exactly when the funds were returned because  of the
delay between when  Ulster says it sent it back and when it actually arrived  in the senders
account. And theres conflicting information on this issue:
Ulster maintains  that it returned  the funds on 11 February  when the payment to Mr 
Hs account failed.
But Ulster also told us that the senders bank sent it a message on 22 February  to 
trace the funds
Ulster wrote to Mr H on 25 February to let him know it was tracing the funds and that 
this could take up to 15 business  days
Ulster told Mr H during a call on 27 February  that the funds had been returned. But 
Mr H called back the next day to say that the sender hadnt  received the funds
The senders  bank sent a message to Ulster  on 1 March  confirming  that the funds 
had been credited  back to the senders account and that this was done on 11 
February
On 11 March, Ulster says the senders bank confirmed the funds had been returned. 
According to Mr H, the funds were  with the senders bank but not yet in the senders 
account
So its difficult to conclude  what happened  given the conflicting evidence. Ive looked  at
whats happened to determine what Mr H wouldve understood  the situation  to be.
As it stands, it wasnt until around  11 March  that Mr H received definitive information telling
him the funds had successfully been returned. And this was later confirmed by the sender
too. Although  Ulster says the funds were returned on 11 February  the fact that Mr H and
the senders bank itself was chasing  this for several weeks, shouldve  put Ulster on notice
that something had possibly  gone wrong.
Ulster later seems  to have been  in touch with the senders bank to find out whats happened.
But it shouldve done this sooner. If it had, then its likely that there wouldve been less of a
delay. And this was particularly essential  because Ulsters failure to notify Mr H about  the
inactive status  of his account is what led to the funds  being rejected at the outset.
So from Mr Hs point of view, 11 March  was when he was satisfied that the funds had
successfully been  returned - so its reasonable to consider that any action or inaction  on his
part wouldve  been  based  around  this confirmation. And the progress of the order  that was
placed with Mr Hs business wouldve been dependent  on how quickly the $3,000  went  back
to the sender.
Financial loss
Mr H says he had to stop work on the order he was supplying after this transaction failed. He
says he stopped work around a week later and had to arrange  for a third party to move  the
equipment for this order and arrange for it to be stored. Mr H has provided the following
breakdown in an invoice from the third party, who is based in a different country:
€665 x 2  this was the cost of moving the equipment on two occasions
€300  this was the cost of storage from 1 March   5 April
The total cost Mr H incurred was €1,630. I think Ulster should reimburse a proportion  of this
to Mr H. Ill explain why and how much.
Ref: DRN29620033Mr H says he made the decision to stop the work around four days  after the transfer  was
rejected. He says he had to do so in order to avoid disruption and because he had no idea
when the work could  continue  as the sender wouldnt  be able to continue  with the order
until the $3,000 deposit was returned. As I said earlier, at this stage neither Mr H nor the
sender had confirmation that the funds had returned. And this issue couldve been  avoided if
Ulster had informed Mr H that his account was inactive. Had it done so, then its likely he
wouldve done something to change the status of his account or arranged for the funds to be
sent elsewhere.
So Mr H seems to have  no choice  but to stop work and arrange for the equipment to be
moved and stored.  And I think Mr H incurred a cost that he wouldnt have done but for
Ulsters failing.  So I think he should  be reimbursed for this.
Mr H says he had to arrange for the equipment to be moved a second  time to minimise the
disruption these were causing  in a workshop. But I dont think its fair to conclude that Ulster
is responsible for this second move, given the reason Mr H initiated  it wasnt  because  of
something Ulster had done. So I wont be asking Ulster to reimburse  Mr H for full cost of
both instances  the equipment was moved.
Mr H was invoiced for storage costs  until 5 April. But as I concluded earlier, by 11 March he
had confirmation  that the funds had been  returned. Its unclear why the equipment was
stored for around another month. But I havent seen anything that suggests that this was
because of something Ulster had done.  However, given the reason he had to store  the
equipment in the first place was because  of what Ulster did wrong,  I think he should  be
reimbursed in part.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H replied accepting my provisional findings. Ulster didnt provide any further comments 
so theres nothing more  I need to address. 
Putting this right
Mr H experienced some  financial loss because of what Ulster did wrong. But not everything
is directly attributable to the banks actions. To put things  right,  Ulster should  reimburse  Mr H 
half of his costs - €815  which I think is a fair way to resolve matters. Mr H says hes not 
had to pay the invoice as theres an understanding that hell do so after this complaint is 
resolved. So I wont  be recommending  that Ulster pay interest  as Mr H hasnt been  out of 
pocket.
Ulster has paid Mr H £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused him by failing to
notify him about  his account being inactive. This is within the region  of what  I wouldve
instructed it to pay as compensation  anyway,  so Im not instructing Ulster to pay more.
The redress  amount of €815 Im instructing Ulster  to pay is in addition  to the £200 its 
already paid to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I'm upholding this complaint and instruct  Ulster Bank Ltd to
Ref: DRN29620034pay Mr H €815.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2962003