K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Paragon Bank PLC was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants  Paragon  Bank  to pay for the 
required repairs.
Background
Mr G obtained a second hand  car in September 2018, financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with Paragon  Bank.
Around five months  later,  the car broke down. The engine had seized. He complained  to 
Paragon Bank and it arranged for an independent inspection. Following the inspection, 
Paragon Bank said it wouldnt pay for the required repairs  because there was no evidence 
that there  was a fault with the engine, or that one was developing, when the car was 
supplied. 
Our investigator agreed with Paragon Bank and didnt recommend that the complaint  should 
be upheld.
Mr G disagreed saying, in summary,  that:
Hed had the car serviced  after hed driven it 10,000  miles,  so it shouldnt have failed.
The fault occurred  so soon after the car had been supplied, so it should  be Paragon  
Banks responsibility.
He cant afford to get the car repaired.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Paragon Bank is the supplier of goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
Ref: DRN29000412The car was nearly  seven  years old when it was supplied in September 2018 and its mileage 
was around 89,000 miles. Around  five months after Mr G obtained the car, it broke  down. As 
this was within six months of the car being  supplied, its for Paragon  Bank  to evidence that 
the car was satisfactory when it was supplied. 
Paragon Bank arranged for an independent inspection and Ive considered  the engineers 
report. It concludes:
..it is our considered opinion that the current issue has developed after the date of purchase 
for an as yet undiagnosed reason with the most probable cause in our opinion being that the 
vehicle as suffered  from a lubrication issue i.e., insufficient lubrication to the engine  bearings 
has resulted in engine seizure.
As the vehicle could  not have been  driven  in this condition in the development stage  at the 
point of sale, it would lead us to the conclusion that the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of purchase and road legal  at that time.
This report was completed  by an independent expert and its right that I place reliance on its 
findings. The report concludes  that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
And I think thats consistent with Mr G being  able to drive the car around 18,000 miles before 
it broke down. It follows that I dont  find Paragon Bank is responsible for the current fault, or 
for paying for the required  repairs.
Ive taken into account that Mr G had the car serviced after hed driven it around 
10,000 miles. And that regular servicing should help to prolong  the life of a car and to identify 
any potential problems  and wear and tear items. But regular servicing doesnt guarantee that 
a car will be free from faults. And, in any event, what I need to decide is whether the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Whether  the car was serviced  or not doesnt  
change that decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900041