K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has refused  to pay his claim under his pet 
insurance policy. 
My references to Allianz include its agents.  
The dog is owned by Mr B and Mr L, and Mr L has brought the complaint on behalf of them  
both. The policy is in Mr Bs name  and so for ease  Ive referred  only to him in this decision.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint.  I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
In March 2015 Mr B took their dog, then a puppy to her the vet for her first two vaccination 
appointments. In September 2015 he took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy  with Allianz.  
In November 2015 Mr B took the dog to the vet as she had a cough.  
During the hot summer 2017  Mr B said the dog began to experience breathing difficulties  for 
the first time. In September 2017 he spoke  to Allianz  about  the premium  renewal  because  
the premium had increased and says he was reassured that he was covered for that breed 
of dog.
In October  2017 the dog had surgery for a condition called brachycephalic obstructive airway  
syndrome BOAS. The surgery was to open  the dogs narrowed nostrils  (stenotic  nares)  and 
to remove soft tissue masses behind the vocal  chords (laryngeal  saccules).  
Mr B made a claim to Allianz but it said the claim wasnt covered because  it related to a 
pre-existing condition. It said this because  the vets clinical records showed the dog had 
clinical signs  of BOAS before the policy was taken out. Allianz referred specifically to two 
entries in the vets notes from the vaccination  appointments in March 2015 showing that the 
dog had stenotic  nares  and that shed been swallowing air with her food (aerophagia).  
Allianz said it had missed the opportunity  to add an exclusion to the policy  for BOAS,  but the 
claim itself wasnt  covered. It paid Mr B £50 compensation  for poor customer  service around 
the claim and complaint.  
Mr B strongly disagree about the claim decision  and came to us. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint so it came to me for review. We then asked both Allianz  and Mr B for 
some more information, specifically about the questions Allianz had asked him before the 
policy had been  taken out and his knowledge  of the dogs health.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im likely to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  my reasons and in doing  so Ill focus on what  
I think are the central issues in this complaint.
Ref: DRN23595702When Mr B took out the policy Allianz asked  him some questions:
Has your pet shown  any signs of an illness or injury, or been  unwell,  either now in 
the past?*
*This is regardless whether or not your pet was seen by a vet for the problem. Please 
provide details of any illness,  injury  or signs of your pet being unwell, the advice or 
treatment given and the approximate date this occurred.
Has your pet been seen by a vet for any reason?
Other than routine vaccinations and neutering, we need to know  about anything  your 
pet has been seen by the vet for and any issues you have discussed  with your vet 
regarding your pets health, even if the vet didnt feel there was anything to be 
concerned about  at the time or the problem resolved quickly.
Mr B answered no to these questions. Weve asked  him about what he knew of his dogs 
health at the time he took out the policy. Hes said, in summary:
He didnt know that the vet had recorded either stenoses naries  or aerophagia in 
the dogs clinical  notes until he saw those notes  after the claim.
The vet told him that his dog had normal [breed stated] breathing and that she was 
a healthy dog of her breed. The vet didnt tell him there was anything he needed  to 
note on the dogs records. He says that Allianz  has accepted this explanation. Also 
the vet noted NAD  against each entry meaning nothing abnormal detected   in 
other words, that there wasnt an issue with her health at that time. 
During the second vaccination visit hed told the vet that the dog was eating  her food 
quite quickly and wanted advice on how to slow that down,  and the vet advised him 
to add water to her food which would make it more  difficult for her to eat her food 
rapidly. This was just a general query  having had the dog for two weeks, and he 
thought it was perfectly normal  for a puppy to be excited about eating. He didnt even  
know that aerophagia had been  noted since the vet hadnt  mentioned  this. Mr B 
hadnt spoken about air being  swallowed  but about  slowing down the dogs eating. 
With regard to the questions asked by Allianz  hed not been concerned about her 
health and the vet didnt indicate  any concern either. The questions  were clearly 
asking if hed discussed anything about  the dogs  health  and he wouldnt have 
thought the conversation about fast eating fell into this bracket. 
When an insurer asks questions before a policy is taken out the consumer must take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation and to answer those questions with 
reasonable care. 
Ive carefully considered  Mr Bs explanation about why he answered the questions as he did. 
What hes said is clear  and is consistent with the information hes earlier  given to Allianz.  
I accept that he didnt believe there  was any problem  with the dogs health and I think  he 
answered the questions with reasonable  care.  This would usually mean that Allianz  couldnt  
retrospectively add an exclusion  to the policy for BOAS and/or respiratory conditions, and 
I note its not attempted to do so for Mr Bs policy in any event. For a lifetime policy we 
wouldnt consider  it fair for an exclusion to be added at renewal either  and again Allianz 
hasnt done so for Mr Bs policy.
This leads  me to Allianzs decision  to turn down  the claim based on its pre-existing condition 
exclusion. In brief, this exclusion says that Allianz  can turn down a claim where  it is for a 
condition that showed signs or symptoms before the policy started. 
Ref: DRN23595703Allianz needs to show, on balance,  that it can rely on the pre-existing  condition  exclusion. 
The vets clinical records show that vet noted the dogs stenotic nares and that she had 
aerophagia in March 2015 before the policy was taken out. The vet that Allianz has 
consulted has said that these are clinical signs of BOAS. 
Its not in dispute  that the 2017 surgery was, in part, to widen the dogs nares which the vet 
recorded in March 2015 were narrow. Mr B says that all dogs of his dogs breed have narrow  
or stenotic  nares. While its fairly common for the breed I dont  think  theres evidence that all 
dogs of this breed have stenotic nares. Also, Mr Bs vet appears to have linked the narrow  
nares in the clinical  notes  to the claim both in the claim form and when he wrote to Allianz 
about the claim. Allianz has referred to some symptoms shown by the dog in November 
2015 around her breathing, which it says supports its claim that the dog was showing initial 
signs of BOAS.
I think on a strict interpretation of the policys terms Allianz was entitled to turn down the 
claim based on it being a pre-existing condition. 
But I can step outside the strict policy terms and conditions where I consider its fair and 
reasonable to do so. One of the key issues for me in determining whether a consumer  has 
been treated fairly is to consider their knowledge of their dogs health at the time they took 
out the policy. I wouldnt consider it fair for an insurer  to turn down a claim where  the 
consumer thought their dog was fit and healthy  at the time they took out the lifetime  policy.
Having considered Mr Bs clear  and consistent explanations about his dogs health  I accept, 
on balance, that he wasnt aware  of any problem  with his dogs health or that his vet had 
noted the dogs stenotic  nares and aerophagia in the clinical  notes. His explanation that the 
vet told him the dog had normal breathing and that Mr B had thought fast eating was normal 
puppy behaviour is reasonable and plausible. While  I can see the noted issues  would be a 
risk factor for Allianz Mr B had to be aware  of them. Ive not seen  anything  to show  that the 
vet discussed  any health concerns with Mr B before he took out the policy. Ive also not seen   
anything to show that Mr B would  have thought hed need to make a claim under  an 
insurance policy based on his discussion about his new puppy at routine vaccination 
appointments. I think that as far as he was aware  he had a healthy  dog. It isnt fair for Allianz 
to turn down  a claim in these circumstances.
This means  I intend  to uphold this complaint. The fair outcome is for Allianz to pay the claim, 
with interest as set out below.    
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mr B responded to say that he was happy  Id found in his favour.  He said hed since  making  
the claim hes had to make additional  complaints to Allianz about its complaint handing. 
When this complaint is finalised he will contact  Allianz to discuss  the policy  and how to close 
the complaint  it has put on hold pending  the decision on this complaint. 
Allianz responded to say that it didnt accept my findings, on the basis  of information given to 
it by the vet it had consulted. The vet re-stated some  of the earlier points theyd made but in 
brief summary said:
Id not disputed that the condition started before the policy  was taken out. The terms 
and conditions apply  to everyone so Allianz shouldnt make  exceptions for Mr B. The 
dog had visible signs of narrow nostrils, which are the only clinical signs  that can be 
Ref: DRN23595704seen unless the dog is under anaesthetic.  Its possible some  people, including Mr B, 
might consider these  abnormalities to be normal, but they can require surgical 
treatment as here. Narrow nostrils reduce airflow and this caused the everted 
laryngeal saccules.  So even if Mr B didnt know this at the time the vet did notice the 
stenotic nostrils and noted this in the history. The vet noted  NAD but also noted 
stenosis naries which  is an abnormality. 
Its important for me to understand that the narrow  nostrils are an abnormality which  
caused the everted laryngeal  saccules  due to negative pressure on them, and this 
was treated in 2017. The upper respiratory  noises that were noted  in 2017 are 
directly linked. So the condition is a pre-existing one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the comments  that Ive received but I still think the outcome proposed  in 
my provisional decision is a fair and reasonable one. Ill focus on the main  points.
Ive accepted that the treating vet linked the dogs narrowed  nostrils  noted in March  2015 
before the policy was taken out to the surgery in 2017. The respiratory illness  noted  in 2015 
was after the policy was taken out.
But the important  issue for me is Mr Bs knowledge  of his dogs health.  Allianz  hasnt 
disputed my provisional finding  that Mr B didnt  know  about his dogs narrowed nostrils.  He 
didnt think there was anything wrong  with his pet. Its not the case  that he thought the 
narrowed nostrils were  normal  for his pug. Rather  he didnt know they were narrow and as 
far as he was aware he had a healthy puppy  before he took out the policy.
I understand that under the strict policy terms Allianz  was entitled to turn down the claim. But 
I dont accept that this produces a fair or reasonable outcome. This is because it is not fair 
for an insurer to turn down a claim on the basis of it being a pre-existing condition  when,  at 
the time of taking  out the policy, the policy holder didnt know there was anything wrong with 
their pet that might  lead to a claim.
In this case, Ive found that Mr B took reasonable care to answer Allianzs  questions  at the 
time he took out the policy. He didnt  know there  was anything  that might  be considered 
abnormal about his pet. Its not fair for Allianz to turn down the claim he made in 2017  on the 
basis of its pre-existing condition exclusion in these  circumstances. So I still think  its fair for 
Allianz to pay his claim, with interest, as set out below.
Mr B says that Allianz  has put his additional, later complaint  on hold pending the outcome of 
this complaint. I dont  have details of that complaint  and so I dont  make  any findings  on it 
here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint. Within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision 
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr Bs claim, subject to the policy limit and any 
Ref: DRN23595705applicable excess. Allianz must add simple  interest* to the claim settlement at the rate of 8% 
per year from the date of claim until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman 
*If Allianz considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN2359570