K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with TSB Homeloans  Ltd - which later became 
part of Lloyds  during  a meeting  at one of its branches. At the same time Mr and Mrs H took 
out PPI to cover Mr Hs income and protect  their mortgage payments in the event Mr H 
couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £19.66 a month and it provided  a benefit to match Mr and Mrs Hs monthly 
mortgage payment  of £275.14 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs H chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs H disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says it doesnt know whether this was an advised sale or not, but it has assumed it 
was and that it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs H. This is to Mr and Mrs Hs 
advantage as it means Lloyds not only had to provide Mr and Mrs H with enough information 
about the policy so they could make an informed decision  about  it. It also had to ensure the 
policy was right or suitable  for them based  on their needs and circumstances at the time. So 
in the absence of anything to suggest otherwise, Im happy to accept that this was an 
advised sale and Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 25 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs H that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in August  1992. Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs H think  its likely the 
policy was sold in a branch.  I have a copy of the loan offer, which  does not mention PPI. But 
I have no other documentation  from the time such as an application form or agreement.
Ref: DRN24384962I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs H a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Lloyds gave  them  the impression they had to take it out. But it seems 
more likely Lloyds gave  Mr and Mrs H the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as 
part of their mortgage application,  and that they chose  to take it out, but have simply 
forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed. I say this because  had they chosen not to 
purchase PPI, or had it been added to their account  without either their knowledge or 
consent, I wouldve  expected them to query or challenge  this shortly afterwards, especially 
as the PPI cost made their monthly  repayments shown on their statements nearly  £20 higher 
than the monthly  cost of the advance  shown in the loan offer.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint) it is more 
likely than not Lloyds  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs H as compulsory or that it didnt tell 
them about  the policy at all. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs H properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs H lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. I also 
dont know what information Mr and Mrs H were  given  about PPI. For example whether the 
policys costs and benefits were made clear to them and if they were told about the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take 
the cover  out without  knowing  anything about  it, but I dont know if they received everything  
they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs H that they take out PPI to cover Mr H. I accept Mr and Mrs H 
may not have been treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  and needs at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  for Mr H was suitable  for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs H would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Lloyds  had done  more. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr H was eligible for his cover and all its benefits
Mr H was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr and Mrs H were under 22 years of age and the mortgage  provided for their first 
home together. While  Mrs H had some  income and Mr H had some  sick pay and 
savings, which could  have helped them make the mortgage  payments  if Mr H was off 
work ill, the policy would have  paid out in addition  to Mr Hs sick pay and for longer 
than his employer  if necessary   up to 12 months  for each claim. Mr and Mrs H had 
limited other means to help them if Mr H lost his job. So I think Mr and Mrs H had a 
need for Mr Hs cover  and that it would have been useful to them if Mr H found  
himself unable to work. It could have helped them financially at what  would be a 
difficult time - it could have helped  them  protect their home.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £20 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.
Ref: DRN24384963So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Mr and Mrs H may not have been treated  fairly and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs H would have  been in the same position  if Lloyds had done  more 
and properly advised and informed them - I think they would have still taken out the PPI.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs H have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2438496