K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them the MPPI.
The mortgage was taken out in joint names   but the policy covered Mr L. There  was an 
amendment made to the policy  in 2010  when Mr and Mrs L took out a further  advance   this 
changed the deferment period for making a claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs L case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
Mr and Mrs L say that they didnt  want, need or ask for MPPI. They say that any agreement  
for MPPI to be added to their mortgage  was completed by YBS and not them.  But I think 
YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt  have to take out the MPPI and that they chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  YBS has provided  copies of paperwork that was completed when Mr and 
Mrs L first applied  for their mortgage and MPPI policy in 1995  this includes their mortgage  
application, and separate MPPI application. The MPPI application presents the cover  as 
optional  and Mr L has signed as the person to be insured, and both Mr and Mrs L have 
then signed the application,  agreeing  to the information on it. So while  the application may 
have been completed by YBS, I think that Mr and Mrs L were aware of what they were 
signing for. 
YBS didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs L so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs L got the information  they needed to decide if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs L about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr L 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs L because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN24019242To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said, including  what  theyve said about 
having sick pay and another insurance  policy they couldve  relied  on to make  their 
repayments. But the MPPI couldve  paid out on top of, and for longer than the sick pay Mr L 
had. We did also ask for clarification about  the other policy and how it worked, but received 
no response, so Im not able to consider this. So these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. YBS should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2401924