K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly  froze and closed his account.  Mr A is 
represented by a colleague,  who Ill refer to as Mr W. 
background
HSBC wrote to Mr A asking  for information for its safeguard review, which is intended to 
protect customers against fraud and financial crime. Mr W says all the information HSBC 
asked for was provided. Despite this, HSBC froze and then closed Mr As account.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld,  saying:
Mr As account was opened in 2012 as a sole trader  account. In 2013  a limited company 
was incorporated  to operate the business. HSBC realised this after it started to review  
the account in 2017.  HSBC said the limited  company needed  to apply for its own 
account. 
HSBC issued a letter in May 2017 saying Mr As account would be restricted  and then 
closed in August  2017 if the review  hadnt been completed.  So when HSBC stopped 
payments from the account in early August it hadnt made an error. HSBC  removed the 
restriction later in August  so that funds could  be transferred. As Mr A was no longer 
trading as a sole trader, he didnt suffer any detriment. 
Mr A didnt agree. Mr W said the investigator  hadnt taken into account the inconvenience 
and time spent on this over many months and the assurances they were given by HSBC  that 
they wouldnt be left without banking provision. Mr W said the sole trader business has lost 
substantial business  and good will.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr As account  say that HSBC  can close  the account or stop 
any account services by giving at least  two months  notice in writing. 
HSBC wrote to Mr A in March 2017 asking for updated information about his business. It 
said this was for its safeguard review. In May 2017 HSBC  wrote to Mr A saying his accounts  
would be restricted in early August and closed at the end of August 2017 if the safeguard  
review wasnt  completed. 
Mr A had opened a sole trader account in 2012. He didnt tell HSBC  that from 2013 his 
business was operated  by a limited company (which Ill refer to as R). So he hadnt  
operated his account in accordance with the terms and conditions,  which  require customers 
to provide accurate information and tell HSBC about  any changes. 
I appreciate that Mr A and Mr W had been  in contact  with, and provided information to, 
HSBC. HSBC had said R should apply for its own account and I can understand that Mr A 
Ref: DRN25230452and Mr W hoped Rs account would  be open  before Mr As sole trader account  was closed. 
But I dont think this means HSBC made an error  when it closed Mr As account.  I havent 
seen evidence that HSBC said it would keep  Mr As account open until Rs account was 
open and operating. And as Rs application  was declined, this wouldnt have been practical.
I think HSBC was entitled to restrict and then close Mr As accounts. It had given him the 
required notice. I do appreciate that this has caused considerable inconvenience. But I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require HSBC  to pay compensation when it didnt make an 
error. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2523045