K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly  voided  his 
home insurance policy (treated it as though  it had never existed) after he made  a claim for 
loss suffered in a burglary.
background
Mr S took out his policy with RSA in December  2016. Cover  for high risk items or valuables 
was limited under the policy to £40,000 with a single item limit of £3,000.
In December 2017 Mr S made a claim for burglary. RSA paid him over £14,600 to settle the 
claim.
In February 2018  Mr S made another claim for burglary. He claimed  £54,650 for stolen 
valuables with eight  items exceeding  the £3,000 limit. RSAs jewellery expert thought  the 
stolen valuables were  worth in total over £62,000.
RSA said if Mr S had told it how much his valuables  were worth, it would never  have offered 
him the policy. Mr S said he hadnt  known his valuables were  worth over £40,000 or that 
some of them were worth  more than £3,000.  
RSA decided to void the policy. It said it would set the premiums  Mr S had paid against  the 
amount it had paid out in settlement of the first claim and wouldnt seek  to recover the 
balance.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
RSA was entitled to void the policy. As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked  to provide certain  information.  
In simple terms the insurer is trying  to assess  how likely  it is that the consumer will make  a 
claim. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer given is inaccurate or incomplete.  But the 
insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance  
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). The 
remedies available  to the insurer for a qualifying misrepresentation include voiding the policy.
Under the terms of CIDRA, there are two main factors I need  to take into account in deciding 
whether theres  been a qualifying misrepresentation. These are how clear  and specific the 
insurers questions were  and whether  the consumer took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
RSA has supplied evidence of the exact  question Mr S was asked online and the answer  he 
gave. He was asked:
Do you own valuables  (jewellery, watches, works  of art etc) with a combined value of more  
than £40,000 ?. 
Ref: DRN28855272Mr S answered No. 
I think this was a clear question. Mr S doesnt  dispute this.
Ive taken into consideration that the stolen valuables  had belonged  to Mr Ss late wife and 
were stored in the back of his wardrobe in a box. Also,  according  to Mr S many of the items 
had been wedding gifts, so he wouldnt have known how much they cost.  But even so, the 
difference between  what  he said his valuables  were worth in 2016  and the actual valuation 
of the stolen items made by RSAs jewellery  expert following the second burglary, is too big 
for me to ignore.  I dont  think that Mr S deliberately  misled RSA. But because the value he 
gave to RSA when taking the policy out wasnt based on any real knowledge  or assessment, 
it wasnt really  much  more than a best guess.  I dont think he knew how far out his guess 
was. But he didnt do anything to check.  So I dont think  he took reasonable care when he 
told RSA how much his valuables  were worth.
Where a qualifying  misrepresentation is careless, the remedy  under CIDRA is to look at what 
the insurer would have done  if the question had been answered correctly. Looking  at the 
acceptance criteria provided by RSA I can see that it wouldnt have offered Mr S the policy if 
it had been told how much his valuables were  actually  worth.  
That means unfortunately for Mr S, I think RSAs view that he failed to take reasonable care 
was fair. And it was entitled to void his policy. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.  
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2885527