K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that their mortgage  endowment policy was mis-sold. They say the 
policy was sold to them by a broker but they think Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax 
and formally Leeds Permanent Building Society) should be liable as they believe the broker 
was an agent  of Halifax, rather than being  independent.
Any reference to Halifax in this decision should be taken to mean  Leeds Permanent  where 
appropriate.
 background
Mr and Mrs S took out the policy in May 1982 and it matured in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax in 2018  and it said it wasnt  responsible for the sale of 
the policy as the records  show the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs S by an independent 
broker. Halifax, however, did send Mr and Mrs S a cheque  for £150 for the delays and errors 
it made in dealing with their complaint.
Our investigator said the independent broker was responsible for the advice given, not 
Halifax. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree  so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Mr and Mrs S have  asked that I have  an exchange of emails  with them before deciding the 
case. This would only be necessary if I considered I needed some  further  information  directly 
from them so I could  fairly decide  the case.  It wouldnt provide Mr and Mrs S with the 
opportunity to ask questions, nor would  it be a dialogue with me. This would be for my 
benefit, if theres anything  at all in the submissions which  I thought wasnt clear.  Having 
reviewed the case file, I consider that all of the material issues are clearly covered. So Im 
satisfied that I can fairly decide the case without  a direct email  dialogue with Mr and Mrs S.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties. Im satisfied thats  
what the investigator did in Mr and Mrs S case.  Insofar as our investigator didnt agree with 
them on the outcome of the complaint, that isnt in itself indicative of bias, however 
unwelcome Mr and Mrs S will have  found  his conclusions. 
Mr and Mrs S indicated  they wanted  to send some more information to us, but despite  
various chase ups for this weve  not received anything further. I cant keep complaints on 
hold indefinitely and so Im issuing this decision without  waiting any longer. 
Ref: DRN26006892Where a mortgage endowment policy was applied for through a third party intermediary, 
such as a broker, there was no obligation on the part of the mortgage lender to replicate the 
role of the broker. There was no regulation of the industry at the time and so no regulatory 
requirements as there are today. I can only consider this complaint based on normal industry 
practice at the time.
Mr and Mrs S approached an independent  broker that they appointed to act as their agent. 
The broker  wasnt selling the mortgage  endowment policy on behalf of Halifax,  so the 
responsibility for the appropriateness of that policy rests with the broker,  not with Halifax.
The broker  wasnt an agent  of Halifax  for this sale; the businesses in question just didnt 
have that relationship. There  are no grounds for me to hold Halifax responsible for advice 
given by an independent broker just because Mr and Mrs S think I should. Mr and Mrs S 
appointed the independent  broker to act on their behalf as their agent and Halifax  wasnt  
involved in that customer/broker relationship.
Halifax apologised for the level of service  it provided in the delays and errors in dealing  with 
the complaint,  and it offered £150 compensation for that. I leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide 
if they want to now contact Halifax directly to accept that.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2600689