K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains Advantage  Insurance Company Limited gave her unfair scores for her 
motor insurance telematics  policy.
background
In September  2018 Miss D took out an Advantage motor insurance policy.  It required her to 
have a telematics box fitted to her car to monitor how it was driven. This recorded four 
aspects of her driving behaviour. These included acceleration and braking. Each  is given a 
score out of 100. Those scores are used to produce an overall  cumulative driving score   
also out of 100. The policy terms said if this score dropped  below 40 shed be sent a warning 
and her cover might  be cancelled.  
Miss D was sent various warnings about her score being below 40. But the policy  wasnt 
cancelled, as when  reviewed it had showed  improvement.  But Miss D felt she was being  
awarded an unfair score for braking. She complained to Advantage that it had always been 
zero (the lowest possible score). She felt the box wasnt recording this aspect of her driving  
correctly. Advantage  said it checked the data.  It didnt  find anything  wrong.   
In June 2019 Advantage gave its response. But as she wasnt  satisfied with it she cancelled 
the policy herself. As a goodwill gesture Advantage waived  a £45 cancellation fee. Miss Ds 
also unhappy with the customer service it provided   including  threats to cancel her policy,  
not dealing with her concerns promptly and increasing the policys mileage limit without  her 
agreement. 
Our investigator didnt  think there was a problem with the box or data. He didnt feel 
Advantage had unfairly increased the mileage limit. And he didnt think  it had done enough 
wrong for him to recommend it pay Miss D compensation. She didnt  accept his findings. 
She wants to be compensated. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making 
Advantage pay Miss D any compensation or do anything differently. 
My understanding is the telematics box records a braking event when a certain g-force level 
is exceeded. Each one has a negative impact on Miss Ds cumulative score  for braking. That 
score feeds into her overall cumulative driving  score.
Advantage says it checked the data but didnt find any error or problem. Ive also looked at 
the data. I havent  seen  enough to make  me think there was anything wrong. The data 
shows braking events during many journeys. But it also shows some without a braking 
event. So it was possible for Miss D to drive without the box recording one.  
Braking and acceleration are both scored  using  the telematics boxs  g-force indicator. So if 
that indicator wasnt measuring  for braking, its likely  it wouldnt for acceleration either.  But 
Miss Ds cumulative score for acceleration changed over time  it wasnt consistently at zero 
like braking. So it seems the box was recording  g-force. 
Ref: DRN28143102Miss D says other  drivers were using the vehicle  but the braking score stayed at zero. She 
says this shows there was a problem. I dont agree. The braking score  she could see was 
cumulative. Miss D had travelled quite a few miles in the vehicle.  That means a relatively 
short period  of use by someone else, without any braking events, wouldnt have much of an 
impact. I accept its possible there was a problem with the box, the data or the scoring. But 
overall I havent seen  enough to make me think there probably was. 
Miss Ds unhappy about the warnings about  cancellation.  The policy terms allow  Advantage 
to send warnings and cancel if her score is below 40. Warnings were sent when Miss Ds 
score was below  40. There wasnt a problem with the scores. She was given time to improve  
it. So I cant say Advantage acted  unfairly or unreasonably by issuing the warnings.
Advantage didnt  provide Miss D with all the telematics data and information  she wanted.  
Some of the information could be commercially  sensitive.  So it would be reasonable for 
Advantage not to share it. It did provide  her with some data about  her driving. Im not sure it 
gave her all that she wanted. But I cant see that made a difference. The data doesnt make  
me think there were  any errors with the scores.   
The policy terms say if Miss D goes over her declared mileage limit Advantage may charge 
her extra premium. It sent her a number of warnings about the issue. She was told she 
needed to increase the limit. It was explained it would happen automatically if she didnt. She 
didnt respond.  So Advantage acted  fairly  and in line with the policy  terms by increasing it. 
Miss D says she didnt get the warnings. She seems  to have  received  other  emails,  like the 
score warnings, sent to the same address. So I think she probably did get them.   
Miss D says Advantage  provided poor customer service. Advantage did get some dates 
wrong in its emails or letters. But I dont agree with Miss D that it did that deliberately.  It 
seems more likely  to have been  genuine mistakes. Im not persuaded Advantage 
deliberately delayed matters either. It took slightly longer  to respond to her concerns than 
would be expected. But overall,  having  considered what Miss D says about her personal  life, 
I dont think Advantage  did enough  wrong  for it to need to pay her compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Advantage Insurance Company Limited  pay 
any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814310