K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
in March 1993. Ms O says Skipton Building  Society (SBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Ms O and Ill explain why.  
Ms O says that the PPI was sold to her in a meeting with SBS and that it was recommended 
to her. SBS have  given  me a copy of Ms Os signed  application  form for the PPI. And on it I 
can see some wording  that indicates it had to be sent by post to SBS. This is consistent with 
what SBS say about the sale  namely that it was a postal sale and that it didnt recommend 
the PPI to Ms O. 
So, as the sale most  likely happened in this way, I think  it unlikely someone  from SBS was 
present at the sale. It follows then that it was likely  not recommended  to Ms O.   
SBS have given me information which includes a copy of the mortgage  offer which shows  
the mortgage started in 1991.  Both Ms O and SBS agree that the PPI was added in 1993.   
And this is consistent  with when the PPI application  form is signed  by Ms O. 
The PPI application  form relates to the PPI only and Ms O has completed this and signed it. 
So as the PPI was taken  around two years  after the mortgage and because it involved a 
separate, PPI only application, I think SBS most  likely  made it clear  that Ms O didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
Ms O says that she was pressured into taking out the PPI. For me to uphold her complaint 
on this point I would have to find that its more likely than not that SBS acted  in this way. Ive 
carefully considered  everything Ms O has said about  this. And having done that, I simply 
dont have compelling evidence to say that SBS put any unfair  pressure on her. I also note 
that as this sale likely took place by Ms O completing a postal  application, its less likely that 
she wouldve felt pressured. 
SBS dont have a copy of the policy document that wouldve been used for this sale  this 
isnt surprising given  the sale took place some 25 years ago. But it has given me copies of 
leaflets related to the PPI from around  that time. Ive also looked  at the earliest policy  
information we have for SBS, and where required, Ive relied on my knowledge  and 
experience of these  types of policies. 
As Ive said,  I dont think SBS recommended the PPI to Ms O so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms O got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information SBS gave Ms O about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she wouldve 
Ref: DRN29745372likely been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Id like to assure Ms O that in saying the above  Ive considered what shes  said about her job 
at the time and the sick pay benefits  she wouldve received. But PPI wouldve given her 
cover for a longer period, and if she made a successful claim she couldve used those funds 
for other living costs.  Ultimately PPI protected Ms Os mortgage, which  was a big and long 
term commitment, secured on her home. 
Ive thought about everything Ms O has said - including  what  shes  said about her partner at 
the time not being in secure employment  and that when he was made  redundant, the PPI 
was of no help to them. But the PPI only covered  Ms O for the mortgage shed taken out. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 march 2019.  
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2974537