K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc has charged her a higher excess and wont  pay 
for some of her repairs when she had a blocked/damaged  drain in a claim under her home 
insurance. The claim was administered by the broker but for convenience I shall refer to 
Allianz throughout.
background
In or around May 2015 Ms G had problems when  she had a leak/blockage  in her home. She 
initially made a claim under her home emergency cover. A drain  company (D) was sent out 
to carry out repairs. Allianz  then assessed  the claim and reached a financial settlement with 
Ms G which included internal repairs due to the water damage. Allianz advised that the 
excess for escape of water would be deducted from the settlement, which  amounted to £450 
(including a £200 voluntary excess). Ms G had a contractor carry out the work and sent in 
her invoices for settlement. 
After agreeing the settlement Ms G said that the underground drains had collapsed.  Allianz 
confirmed that if that were  the case the excess for accidental damage to underground  
services would be £300. It asked for confirmation  that that was the cause of the damage.  Ms 
Gs contractor referred in his quote  to a drain collapse but didnt explain the cause of it. He 
also referred to damage caused by D but again  didnt explain further. Ms G couldnt obtain 
further details  as the builder had retired. Allianz  spoke  to its drainage contractors  who said 
that the likely cause of the water damage was a blocked pipe in the house rather than the 
damage to the underground services. As Ms G wasnt  able to show  otherwise it said it 
couldnt refund any of the excess without evidence that the damage was accidental rather  
than due to escape of water. 
Ms G also complained that Allianz  wouldnt pay the full cost of her repairs which  included  the 
installation of a manhole, which she was told by her contractors was necessary. Allianz said 
that though desirable there  was no requirement  for a manhole so it wouldnt pay for that.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint as she thought  that 
Allianz had acted reasonably. Ms G didnt agree and the matter  has been  referred  to me for 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21770682home emergency cover
Ms G says that her drain was damaged by D, who were sent by her insurers  in respect of a 
claim under the home emergency part of her policy. That cover isnt supplied by Allianz  but 
rather comes  under  a different insurer. I appreciate that Ms G only paid one premium  and 
that she corresponded with the broker who administered the claim. But ultimately it is the 
insurer named in the relevant part of the policy which is responsible  for paying  out on the 
claim or if anything went wrong in the way the claim was dealt with. I note that Allianz told 
Ms G in 2015 that it wasnt  responsible  for D. It should have advised her at that stage about 
the insurer of the emergency cover. But ultimately  I dont think  it would have made  any 
difference to the claim as the evidence for the damage wouldve had to come  from Ms Gs 
contractor and she has confirmed shes unable to approach him.
excess
Ms G complains that she has been  charged the £450 excess for escape of water  rather  than 
a £300 excess  for damage to underground  pipes. Allianz spoke to its contractors who said it 
was possible for the leak to have been  caused  by accidental damage  to the underground 
pipes but it was more likely to have been (as it was assessed) due to a blockage  in the pipes 
in the house. As Ms G advised Allianz  of this after the claim was finalised I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Allianz to ask for further information about  the cause of the damage. It 
asked for further  confirmation from Ms Gs contractor. Ms G said she couldnt provide that as 
her contractor had retired  I note that this was a year later.  
Ms Gs contractors  quote refers to damage caused by D but didnt explain this any further 
and didn't mention the cause of the drain  collapse. As Ms G only raised this with Allianz  after 
the claim had been settled I think it acted reasonably. Im sorry that Ms G wasnt  able to get 
further information from her contractor  but I dont think it was reasonable to ask Allianz to 
revise the excess without it.
further costs
Ms G says she was told that a manhole needed  to be installed to help guard against future 
problems. Allianz wont  pay for this as it says its betterment ie an improvement to the 
system though not strictly necessary. Ms G says she didnt want  the manhole but was told 
by her contractors that it would help prevent future  damage.
Under the terms of the policy Allianz is only liable  to pay for repairs. It doesnt have to pay for 
preventative work, unless  that is a necessary part of the repairs,  without which  they couldnt 
be effective. And whilst I understand that the manhole was a desirable thing to have and 
may help prevent future  damage I dont think that it's been  shown that it was strictly  
necessary ie the repairs wouldnt have  lasted without its installation.  For that reason I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to hold Allianz liable for the further  costs  claimed by Ms G. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Ref: DRN21770683Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2177068