K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1999. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through his representatives,   
Mr M disagreed with that view. So the matter  has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I havent upheld  the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing Mr Ms credit  card application form. It appears that PPI was 
sold to Mr M when  he filled out a leaflet  to apply for his credit card. It looks as though  he 
would have been able to complete the application in his own time and at his own pace.  
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr M would have known this PPI policy was 
optional and he didnt  have to buy it if he didnt want it. I can see that in order for the cover to 
be added  to his card, Mr M had to tick a box on the application to indicate he wanted a 
policy. Although I can see that the form said it was recommended that Mr M should  buy the 
cover, I think the wording  is sufficiently clear to show  he had a choice.  I dont think  hed have 
thought he had to buy PPI for his credit  application to be accepted.  Similarly, he wouldnt 
have reasonably thought  insurance  was a condition of his card. 
Mr M told us that RBS advised  him to buy a PPI policy. But I cant see anywhere on the 
application form that he would have reasonably thought RBS was making a PPI 
recommendation based on his personal  circumstances.  In my view,  this wasnt an advised 
sale. Although having  said that, RBS still had to give Mr M enough information about  the PPI 
so he could decide for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs. That information had 
to be fair, clear and not misleading.  
From the application form, I dont  think the cost of the policy  is clearly  set out. And I dont  
think that Mr Ms attention  has been drawn to any of the policys significant  exclusions. So 
the question for me now is whether Mr M would have acted differently if RBS had told him 
everything it should have done  about the cover. To help me decide  what  hes likely to have 
done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also considered what 
Mr M told us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the PPI policy that 10% of his credit card 
balance would have  been repaid for up to 12 months if he became unwell or if he lost his job. 
Mr M told us that if he was off sick, hed have got six months  full pay and six months half pay 
from his employer. So it seems as though the PPI would have paid out for longer than his 
sick pay would have  lasted. 
Ref: DRN28098812In his initial PPI questionnaire, Mr M told us that he had savings worth between  six and 12 
months of his salary.  But in a response  to a request to our adjudicator,  Mr M clarified that his 
savings would have  been considerably less than that. Taking  all of the information  about 
Mr Ms means on board, I think the PPI would  have paid out for longer than the existing 
means Mr M already  had in place. 
Mr M told us that he had a pre-existing medical  condition when he took this PPI policy  out. I 
can see that he wouldnt have been  able to make a claim  if he was off work because of it. 
But Mr M had been  diagnosed in 1965. Although he was prescribed medication,  he hadnt 
taken any time off work because of that medical  condition. So realistically, I dont think Mr M 
would have thought hed have to make a claim  because  of this. In these circumstances,  I 
dont think his pre-existing medical  condition would have put him off buying PPI. I havent 
seen anything else about Mr Ms employment circumstances that would have stopped him 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
Ive set out above how PPI could have been  helpful to Mr M in what  would have  no doubt 
been a very stressful situation for him if he did lose his job. I think he probably  chose to take 
the cover  out as well  so it looks as though he wanted this type of insurance. Overall, I dont 
think more or better information would have put Mr M off buying  PPI. It follows  then that I 
havent upheld  the complaint and I dont need  to tell RBS to take any further action.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask  Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2809881