K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) charged her too much  for repairing 
the damage to the car that she had leased  from them. 
She would like them to reduce the charge to a more  reasonable  amount. 
background
Miss M leased a car from PSA which she returned  in September  2018. She says that when 
the check was done,  the car was immaculate and there were no extra  charges. But there  
was a small scratch on one of the alloy wheels.  
Miss M says she was charged £638.20 for what she thought was repair to the alloy wheel. 
She contacted a Honda dealership who told her that the repair for the alloy wheel should  
only have cost £50. 
Miss M complained to PSA. 
PSA responded on 12 November 2018  saying that there was clear  evidence of damage to 
the car. They found that three of the alloy wheels  had been scratched. A charge of £65 per 
wheel was applied.  They also found that a door had been damaged and had to be replaced. 
A charge of £455.20 was applied. 
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome so she brought the complaint  to us. 
Our investigator found that there had been some damage but not enough to justify  the 
charges applied. He partially upheld the complaint.  He thought that the charge for the wheels 
was reasonable  but didnt think that the whole door needed to be replaced because  of a 
couple of dents.  
PSA didnt agree with this but did offer to lower their charges for the door by 25% to 
£341.40. They said that the door had several  separate dents in it and theyd been advised  
that the door had to be replaced rather than repaired. PSA supplied  photos of the damage. 
Miss M didnt agree that the door had been this badly damaged. Neither  did our investigator. 
So the complaint has now come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint. I will explain why. 
Ive seen the photos of the damaged door. I can see that there are quite a few dents  
definitely more  than two. Without  anything from Miss M to say that these could be dealt with 
by repairing  the door rather  than replacing  it, Im persuaded by PSA that the advice that they 
got to replace the door was right. So, I think that they should be able to charge Miss M for 
this. 
Ref: DRN22788802Miss M says that the car was immaculate when she handed it back. Again, it would be 
helpful to have something from her to show this. Without this, I can only go by what  PSA 
have shown me. Their  report shows that there  has been damage to three wheels and a door. 
Ive considered whether the charge is fair. If the door has to be replaced, then I think  that it is 
a fair charge. Also,  I think that PSA have behaved  reasonably and fairly in agreeing  to lower 
the charge for the door by 25% to £341.40.  This,  along with the three alloy wheels repairs at 
£65 each, makes the total owed by Miss M to PSA £536.40. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Miss M hoped for. But I do hope that Ive clearly  
explained the reasons for my decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that PSA Finance  UK Limited has acted  fairly  and reasonably.  I think that they 
are entitled  to charge Miss M for the repairs to the alloy wheels and for replacing the car 
door. The total charge of £536.40 is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2278880