K821x#15complaint
Miss C says Cash  On Go Limited (COG),  trading  as Peachy, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 4 loans COG provided to Miss C between  21 March 2014  and 31 
May 2014. Miss Cs borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate  taken 
outDate  
RepaidInstalmentsLoan  
amountHighest  
InstalmentDeclared 
Income
1 21/03/2014 31/03/2014 1 £200.00 £225.00 £1,250
2 31/03/2014 30/04/2014 1 £400.00 £525.00 £1,250
3 30/04/2014 30/05/2014 1 £500.00 £655.00 £1,250
4 31/05/2014 *sold on 5 £500.00 £211.06 £1,250
Our adjudicator considered Miss Cs complaint  and felt that loan 1 should not be upheld. 
Miss C has not responded to dispute  this, so it appears she accepts our adjudicators 
opinion and so I havent considered loan 1 in this decision. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Cs complaint about  loan 2 onwards and felt that these loans  
shouldnt have been given. COG disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
COG needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss C could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that COG should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN23612462There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that COG was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that the repayments  for loans 2 and 3 represented a significant 
proportion of Miss Cs income  and consequently  there was a high risk that she wouldnt be 
able to meet  her existing commitments  without having  to borrow further. COG doesnt feel 
the repayments were  significant in relation to Miss Cs income. Furthermore, it says Miss C 
was single and living with her parents and had no monthly  expenses  towards rent and bills.
But I think its unlikely that Miss C truly had zero expenses. If Miss C did have the disposal  
income COG suggests, I dont think she would have needed to replace loan 1 (which was 
repaid the same day loan 2 was taken  out) with a loan for twice the amount  just 10 days 
later.
Loan 3 was taken on the same day loan 2 was repaid and the repayment  amount had 
increased to £655.  Proportionate checks would  also have shown Miss C had at least  two 
other short-term loans. So again, I feel there was a significant risk that Miss C would be 
unable to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow further. So, for this 
reason I dont think COG shouldve lent Miss C loans 2 and 3.
Loan 4 was an instalment loan agreed  to run for five months. But by loan 4 I think Miss C 
had shown signs that she was struggling to manage  her money and had to continue to 
borrow money to maintain  her expenses. I say this because she had borrowed loans 1  3 in 
quick succession and the loan amounts were  increasing. This persistent borrowing 
suggested that her expenses were greater than her income. Also loan 4 was taken out the 
day after loan 3 was paid off. The term of five months was now extending her indebtedness. 
So, I think COG wouldve been  aware Miss C was not coping financially. In these 
circumstances, I think  there was a significant risk Miss C wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet her monthly repayments  for this loan and that Miss Cs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 2 onwards and COG should put things right.
putting things right  what COG needs  to do
Ref: DRN23612463If COG has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these  back  if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If COG is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A.COG should add together  the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  
anything COG has already refunded.
B.COG should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made by Miss C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C.COG should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and treat 
any repayments made by Miss C as though they had been  repayments of the principal 
on loan 4. If this results in Miss C having made overpayments then COG should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. COG 
should then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss C. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then COG should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with Miss C. COG 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  it has already written-off. 
E.COG should remove any adverse information  recorded on Miss Cs credit  file in relation 
to loans 2 - 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires COG to deduct  tax from this interest. COG should give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Cs complaint. Cash  On Go 
Limited should pay Miss C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2361246