K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS), trading  then as 
Halifax. Around the same time they also took out a monthly premium PPI policy,  which would  
pay benefits if either or both of them were off work  ill or injured  or lost their job. 
The PPI was part of a package called a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), which  was 
intended to protect  their mortgage repayments.  But this complaints  just about the sale of the 
PPI element of the TMPP.
Mr and Mrs S feel the PPI was mis-sold. Among other things, they say they werent  given 
any option not to have  PPI and didnt think theyd get the mortgage unless they took it out. 
And they complain that they didnt  understand the financial  implications of having PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  But Mr and Mrs S dont agree, 
so its come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I dont have much clear information  about how the PPI was sold.  From what Ive been told it 
was probably during  a meeting. But after so many years theres no paperwork  available to 
show me what, if anything  was discussed  about PPI. And understandably Mr and Mrs S 
dont now remember much about  the sale. So I have  to decide what  I think is most likely to 
have happened, based on what theyve been able to recall and what  BoS has told us about 
its usual sales process  at that time,  as well as its electronic  records  that Ive been sent.
Having done that, Ive concluded on balance that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
were Mr and Mrs S given a fair choice?  
Mr and Mrs S feel they werent  given  a choice about  whether to have the PPI - or at least  
were led to believe that taking it out would improve their chances  of getting the mortgage. 
And thats possible.  As Ive said,  I cant  know what was discussed. But BoS tells us that as 
part of its normal sales procedure its adviser wouldve been required to make Mr and Mrs S 
aware that the PPI was optional. It may be that he or she didnt follow  that usual process on 
this occasion.  But Ive seen nothing which shows me clearly that this is what happened.
The adviser may well have encouraged Mr and Mrs S to consider having  PPI. But Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that the success of their mortgage application wouldve depended 
on taking it out. Nor have  I been  told about anything specific that BoS did or said which  could 
reasonably have led Mr and Mrs S to think that it would.
Ref: DRN20575002According to BoSs records,  Mr and Mrs S didnt take out all the available elements of the 
TMPP. This suggests to me that there  was probably some discussion and they chose which  
parts they wanted. And I can see too from those records that they were asked questions 
about their earnings,  jobs and health  - which again makes me think  its likely they discussed 
the TMPP, including the PPI, with the BoS adviser and decided to have PPI cover.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs S have said. And I cant be sure exactly what  took 
place in the meeting. But in my view its more likely than not that they were given a choice 
and opted to have the PPI, even if they dont remember  that now,  so many years  later.  And 
Ive not been told anything that makes me think they were put under unfair pressure to buy it.
Mr and Mrs S have  also said they werent  told they could get PPI from somewhere else, if 
they wanted to. But BoS didnt have to tell them that, as long as BoS made it clear  that they 
didnt have to have the PPI it was offering  which as Ive said, I think BoS probably did.
were Mr and Mrs S given good enough  advice and information?
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. This meant  it had to check that the 
cover would be suitable for them. I dont know what steps BoS took to do this, apart from 
asking the questions Ive mentioned. But based on what Ive been told about their situation 
at the time, I think it was suitable. Mr and Mrs S wouldnt  have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions  to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And as I explain below, I think it couldve 
been helpful for them by making sure they could keep up their mortgage repayments.  
BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs S good  enough  information about the cost, benefits and 
main features of the PPI, so they could fairly decide  whether  or not to take it out.
There are no notes  now of what was discussed  about PPI, if anything, or of what  paperwork 
they were given and when.  So I dont  know what Mr and Mrs S had read or been  told about 
the PPI before they agreed to have it, or how much time they were  given to consider whether 
to take it out. They  say they didnt understand the financial details at the time. And it may be 
that the information theyd  got about  the PPI wasnt as clear or full as it shouldve been.  But 
on balance, I think its unlikely that having  better information wouldve changed their 
decision. I think Mr and Mrs S would probably still have taken out the PPI. 
Thats because,  from what  I know about  their circumstances and looking at the terms of the 
PPI they took out, I think Mr and Mrs S were  eligible  for it. I dont think  they wouldve been 
affected by any of the main things the PPI didnt cover. I think it couldve  proved useful.  And 
Ive not been shown  that it was unaffordable  for them  at that time.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldve got some sick pay from their jobs. Ive considered that. But I 
think PPI couldve still been helpful  for them. Its benefits couldve lasted for up to 24 months 
at a time - much longer  than their sick pay - and wouldve been paid on top of any sick pay 
or redundancy payment  they got, at what wouldve likely been a difficult time for them. 
And even  if when they took out the PPI Mr and Mrs S mightve had some small savings, 
having PPI wouldve left these intact  for the future. To my mind  the fact that they chose not 
to use any such savings  to reduce the amount they were borrowing suggests thats 
something they wanted to do. So I dont think  their likely sick pay or possible savings made 
the PPI unsuitable, or meant  that it was unreasonable  for BoS to recommend it.
Ref: DRN20575003Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs S were borrowing a large amount for potentially  
a long time, secured on their home. So the effect of not keeping  up with the repayments 
couldve been very serious for them. The PPI was paid for monthly, meaning its cost didnt  
add to their borrowing or attract interest. And they could cancel it at any time, without further 
cost, if their situation changed  or they felt they no longer wanted  it. 
Its difficult to decide  a case like this, where the available  information  about the sale of the 
PPI is quite limited. I realise  Mr and Mrs S have found the complaint  process  frustrating and 
will be disappointed with this outcome. But having thought carefully about everything theyve 
told us, and done the best I can to decide  what probably happened, on balance  I dont think  I 
can fairly and reasonably  say the PPI was mis-sold to them.
That means BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI. But BoS 
has previously offered to give Mr and Mrs S back some of the cost of the PPI. BoS tells us it 
has already paid this to them and, if so, I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2057500