K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as first direct, failed to act on his 
instructions to set up a monthly standing order on his account. He wants  the bank to pay him 
compensation.
background
Mr R phoned first direct to instruct it to set up a monthly standing order with effect from 
1 April 2019. The standing order  wasnt set up and Mr R had to phone  the bank  again.  
first direct apologised, set up the standing order, paid Mr R £25, and offered to refund any 
fees or charges hed had to pay as a result  of its error.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the banks action to correct its mistake  and its payment of £25 compensation  was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr R didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He wants at least £75 compensation for the time hes had to spend on this matter.
It isnt acceptable that a regulated bank can make a mistake like this  it wouldve had 
bigger consequences if the payment was, for example,  for a house  purchase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for much the same reasons.
first direct made a mistake. It didnt set up the monthly standing order in time for the first 
payment due date of 1 April. Mr R phoned  it on 6 April and first direct set up the standing 
order so that payment  left his account  on 8 April. It sent Mr R its final response to his 
complaint on 12 April. It apologised and told Mr R that it had given feedback to the individual 
member of staff concerned for training purposes. It paid him £25 compensation and offered 
to pay any fees or charges Mr R had incurred as a result of the late payment.
From what  Mr R has told us, it seems  he was able to agree a payment extension  so didnt 
incur any charge for late payment. Whilst I can understand why the banks error caused  him 
concern, it doesnt  seem  to have resulted in any financial loss. The bank put things right 
quickly. So, in the circumstances, I think its compensation payment of £25, and its apology, 
is a fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint.
Mr R has expressed  concern about  what might have happened  if a mistake had been  made,  
for example, on a house purchase  payment. But my role is to consider the individual  
circumstances of this complaint and what has happened here; not what  might have 
happened in a different situation.
Ref: DRN22383392my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238339