K821x#15complaint
Miss P complained about a replacement roof fitted by Aviva  Insurance Limiteds appointed 
contractor.
background 
Miss P has held a home insurance  policy with Aviva for a number of years.  The policy  
provides cover for accidental damage to both the building and contents. 
In July 2016 Miss P registered  a claim with Aviva for accidental  damage to her roof. Aviva  
instructed a contractor,  who Ill call E, to inspect the damage and carry out the repairs. 
Having inspected the damage  E decided to replace  the damaged roof. In the months that 
followed, Miss P reported ongoing  problems  with the roof as it leaked  in a number of places.
Having made several attempts to repair the replacement roof, E decided in October  2017  
that the roof would need to be replaced  again.  Miss P wasnt  happy with the information  E 
had given her about  the proposed works,  particularly as it was unable to provide her with 
detailed plans of the new roof and how it would be finished. She raised a complaint with 
Aviva and asked that it instruct  a new contractor  to carry  out the works.
Aviva said it was unable  to offer another contractor. It confirmed that E could fit the new roof 
at an increased pitch. But agreed, if Miss P wanted to instruct her own contractor, it would 
review the quote  with a view to making  a contribution. It also offered her £500 compensation 
in recognition of the trouble and upset shed experienced while  the claim was ongoing.  
Miss P was unhappy  with Avivas response as she didnt feel it addressed her concerns  
including why it had instructed E and why her premiums had continued to increase since her 
claim was first registered. So she asked our service to look into the case  for her. 
Miss Ps concerns about her premium increases will be considered under a separate  
complaint so I wont be commenting on it within  this decision. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ps complaint about the replacement  roof. He explained 
why he felt Avivas offer to put things right was fair in the circumstances. He acknowledged  
that Miss P had lost faith in E, and so felt Avivas  offer to consider an independent  quote  was 
reasonable. He also felt Avivas offer of compensation  adequately  compensated her for the 
trouble and upset  shed  experienced  while  the claim was ongoing.  
Miss P didnt agree. She explained she wanted assurances from Aviva  about exactly what it 
would agree to contribute towards a replacement roof. She also felt let down that Aviva  
wasnt able to complete  the works  for her. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was referred for an ombudsmans final 
decision. 
While the case was awaiting allocation to an ombudsman,  and in view of Miss Ps ongoing 
concerns, our investigator asked her to obtain  an independent quote for the works that 
needed to be completed so this could be shared with Aviva. 
Ref: DRN26227742Miss P obtained a quote from a roofing company, who Ill call R. R advised that the roofing 
system E had used  wasnt suitable for Miss Ps property. So it recommended  a new roofing 
system and provided  a quote for the works.
 
Aviva considered the quote and agreed to cover  the costs detailed. But Miss P explained 
shed got the quote  in a rush, and it didnt  actually cover all the works that were needed. She 
explained her original roof was a polycarbonate  roof, similar to that used in a conservatory,  
which allowed a lot of light into the room. The roofing  system  R had recommended was a 
solid flat roof. She explained she was advised shed need to have sky lights fitted to allow 
light into the room.  As this wasnt included within the original quote she wasnt  prepared to 
accept Avivas offer as it stood. She also maintained  it had failed to address her remaining 
concerns. 
Miss P was later able to obtain a quote from another roofing company, who Ill call F, which  
included all the works that had been  recommended. 
This quote was shared with Aviva, but it didnt agree to cover the costs. It said the roof 
quoted for was not on a like-for-like basis with the original roof. 
As no agreement could be reached, its for me to decide how the claim should be resolved.
Having considered all the information  presented  by both sides, I issued a provisional  
decision on 28 March 2019  explaining why I considered  Aviva  should meet the full costs 
quoted by F. 
my provisional findings
Its accepted by all parties  that the replacement  roof had failed and needs to be replaced 
again. So the issue for me to decide is who should complete the work, and what  Aviva  
should contribute towards it.
I accepted Miss Ps reasons for not wanting the additional work  to be carried out by E. I 
noted thered  been questions from the outset about whether it was the right contractor for the 
job, and indeed E tried to turn down the job when it was first appointed.  While its clear the 
roof has failed, E didnt seem to be able to establish why this happened. There  was also no 
guarantee that the new proposal would be successful either. 
I found it persuasive that Miss P had received quotes from two independent  roofing  
companies that had recommended  her roof be replaced with a glass fibre solid roof. E wasnt 
able to offer an alternative as the polycarbonate roof was the only one it was able to fit. 
I agreed the proposed new roof is not a like-for-like roof to the one it will replace. But the 
replacement roof has failed, and theres no clarity on whether Es proposed new roof will fix 
the problem. 
I explained the policy is designed to put Miss P back into the position she was in before the 
accidental damage  happened. In this case that was a water tight roof. While  the policy  isnt 
designed to provide betterment, i.e. a better  roof, this is secondary to the need to solve  the 
problem. 
I also considered the fact that Miss P had been very seriously inconvenienced because of 
the failed repair work.  Shes told us shes not been  able to use the affected room  since the 
Ref: DRN26227743roof was originally replaced in November 2016.  This has impacted other decisions shes  had 
to make about her home, for example she hasnt been able to make the home improvements 
she wanted to be able to sell her home because of the ongoing  problems. Shes also 
explained that shes found the whole process  incredibly  stressful.  She said shes suffered a 
lot of distress and anxiety,  and the situation  has put a strain  on her family  life. Shes 
described having to empty buckets of water on a daily basis,  and a lot more frequently  in bad 
weather. 
Having carefully considered all the circumstances of the case, I concluded Aviva should 
cover the cost of the new roof as quoted by F. 
I explained that under normal circumstances Id also expect Aviva to pay Miss P a 
considerable sum in compensation to account for the trouble and upset shes undoubtedly  
experienced. But taking into account the £500 Aviva had previously offer, and the fact the 
new roof appears  to be of a better quality than the one thats being replaced, I didnt ask 
Aviva to make an increased offer of compensation.  
I also set out that Aviva  should promptly consider a claim for the repair  or replacement  of 
items Miss P said have been water  damaged  due to the failure  of the replacement roof. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Miss P responded broadly agreeing with my provisional decision, but clarifying two points. 
She explained to date shes  not received the £500 compensation from Aviva, as she was 
advised not to accept  it. She also explained  that E had told her it was unable  to complete the 
replacement work, and so it had advised her to go elsewhere for the works  to be completed.  
She explained it was therefore not her choice to go elsewhere, but felt she was left with no 
option. 
Aviva has not responded, despite asking  for and being given more time to respond.  In an 
email we were copied into it has highlighted its concerned the proposed  new roof is not the 
same as Miss Ps original roof.  
As the extended  deadline for all responses has now passed, and given the other delays  
experienced while waiting for responses from Aviva, I dont think it would be appropriate to 
wait any longer before issuing my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Miss Ps response to my 
provisional decision. Having done  so, Im still of the view that this complaint should  be 
upheld, for much the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
In response to Miss Ps notes, I can see that E has not always  been very clear about  its 
involvement in the claim or its detailed plans for replacing the roof. I can see it also 
suggested that Miss P obtain an independent quote to help resolve the complaint. But it has 
since stated to our service that it considers it can complete the necessary works.  
I accept that the roof F has quoted  for is not a like-for-like replacement  of the original roof. 
Its solid, rather than transparent, and appears  to be a stronger and more durable 
Ref: DRN26227744construction than the original roof. So I accept theres an argument that it could constitute 
betterment to Miss P, which the policy isnt designed  to provide. 
But, the overriding  purpose of the policy is to return Miss P to the position she was in before 
the insured event happened. In this case thats having a water-tight roof. 
I think its important to note that Miss P didnt  decide  for her roof to be replaced  in 2016. This 
was decided by E, in discussion with Aviva. I can see from the early  claim notes that E 
actually questioned whether it was the appropriate contractor for the job due to the 
complexities of the work needed, but Aviva decided to instruct  them anyway. 
Its been agreed by all parties  that the replacement roof has actually made  the problem 
worse for Miss P. She now has multiple, recurrent  leaks across the span of the roof. As it 
was Avivas decision to replace the roof, I think it should reasonably bear the cost of 
returning Miss P to a position  where she has a water-tight roof. 
While E has told us it believes it can carry out the works needed, I think its reasonable for 
Miss P to reject this offer given the ongoing problems shes encountered  with it. 
Miss P has obtained two quotes from independent  roofing companies that have suggested  
the roof be replaced with a solid roof. I think its also significant that Aviva agreed to cover 
the cost of a solid roof when presented with the earlier, incomplete, quote  from R. 
A new quote was obtained so it could include the cost of two pyramid sky lights and the cost 
of finishing work that would be needed.  I dont consider  these additional works to be 
unreasonable in the circumstances. As Miss Ps original  roof allowed a lot of light into the 
room, I think its reasonable for her to want to replicate this as far as possible with the new 
roof. Its been suggested to Miss P that sky lights will achieve this. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that this is an unreasonable  recommendation, or that theres another way to achieve 
the same  goal.      
Equally, I consider Avivas responsibility  to repair the roof extends to the finishing of the roof, 
and the internal walls of the room. The new quote  includes  additional works Miss P has been 
told are needed  to finish the roof and the internal walls. Again I dont consider this to be 
unreasonable in the circumstances and Ive seen  no evidence  to suggest the works quoted 
for are unreasonable. 
In any event, as I set out in my provisional  decision, Ive considered the case as a whole, 
and Ive decided  not to award any further  compensation to Miss P on the basis  that she will 
be in a somewhat  better position  once  the new roof is fitted. But Aviva  should now pay Miss 
P the £500  compensation  that was offered earlier. 
In the absence of any evidence from Aviva  to explain  why the proposed  quote is 
unreasonable, Im satisfied it provides  a fair and reasonable  resolution to the complaint. I 
therefore consider  Aviva  should cover the cost of the replacement  roof as set out in Fs 
quote. 
As set out in my provisional  decision, Id also expect Aviva to now promptly consider  a claim 
for the repair or replacement of the items  of furniture that Miss P says have been damaged  
by the leak. If Aviva  accepts the claim it should be settled promptly. If Miss P is unhappy  with 
Avivas claims  decision or its handling  of her claim she may be entitled to refer this back to 
this service for further  consideration.
Ref: DRN26227745my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Aviva  
Insurance Limited to:
pay Miss P the costs outlined in Fs quote  dated  17 December 2018; and
pay Miss P £500 compensation  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019
Lisa De Noronha
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2622774