K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality  of repairs and the poor service  she got when she made a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy with Zenith Insurance plc. All references to Zenith  
include its agents.  
background
Mrs Ms car was damaged in an accident in July 2018. Repairs  were  done by garage  M, 
one of Zeniths approved repairers.  When she got the car back in August 2018, Mrs M 
complained to Zenith about a scratch and other  cosmetic issues that she thought  were 
garage Ms fault. The car had to go back to it for an ordered part to be fitted  anyway, so 
garage M dealt with the other issues  at the same  time. The car was returned to Mrs M again 
on 13 September 2018. She thought the original  rectification work hadnt been done  properly 
and that there was further damage  to the car. 
Mrs M complained to Zenith again  and took the car to a specialist body  shop. She says she 
was told there that the standard of the paintwork was poor due to water in the compressor 
that had been used.  Mrs M sent Zenith photos of the defects, plus an estimate for repairs. 
During a call with Mrs M, Zenith told her she must  wait for authorisation to have the repairs  
done at a dealership garage. It later arranged for an independent assessor to inspect the 
car, as it didnt think the images were  clear. But in the meantime, Mrs M had the car 
repaired. So when the assessor viewed it he couldnt comment  on the reported faults. 
Zenith paid Mrs M £75 compensation for inconvenience, as it accepted  that the car shouldnt 
have had to go back to garage M for further  work. But it didnt agree to refund Mrs M for the 
£559.20 repairs shed  had done.  Garage M told Zenith the marks on the paintwork  could  
easily have been  polished off and that there  was no need to have the panels re-sprayed. It 
also said Mrs M hadnt paid the £250  policy excess when  the car was collected from it. 
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ms complaint. He thought Mrs Ms photos showed  
that the repairs hadnt been completed properly. As garage M had been given a chance  to 
put matters right - but had caused further damage - he thought it was reasonable for Mrs M 
to take the car to another  garage.  He thought  Zenith should pay for the repairs. He also 
thought it should waive the policy excess to apologise for the inconvenience  caused to her. 
After a review by a senior engineer, Zenith  said it shouldnt have to pay for the repairs, as 
the images werent clear. It asked for a review  of the complaint by an ombudsman.     
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I think the images supplied by Mrs M show there  were still issues with the repairs  to the car, 
including the paintwork,  when it was returned to her on 13 September  2018. The file notes 
show that garage M agreed some work should  be done on it. So I think  the question  is how 
much further  work was required  to put matters  right. Zeniths engineers didnt think the 
images were  clear enough. So I think it was reasonable for Zenith  to want  an independent 
assessor to view the car and provide a report before agreeing to pay for any further work. 
I think Zenith could have acted more  quickly  to arrange the assessors visit, as it didnt do so 
until 27 September 2018. But in any event, Mrs Ms invoice for the repairs  shows the garage 
she chose to do the work had completed  it by 21 September  2018. That was just one week  
after the car was returned to her. As the repair work was cosmetic and didnt prevent the car 
being driven safely, I dont think it had to be done so urgently.  
Ref: DRN24396792I think its fair to say that Mrs M should have  waited for authorisation from Zenith.  That would 
have meant  allowing time for the independent  assessor to view the car. He may  or may not 
- have agreed that all the work proposed  by Mrs Ms garage was necessary. As he didnt get 
the chance to assess  the damage, I dont think its possible to say how much of it was 
needed and would have been  authorised  by Zenith.  So I dont think  it would be fair to require 
Zenith to refund  the full cost of the repairs. But it looks  as though  some  work would have had 
to be done. Without  independent evidence about the extent of that, I think  Zenith should only 
pay something towards the repairs. I think it would be reasonable for it to pay Mrs M £200. 
I dont think the £75 compensation Zenith offered  Mrs M for distress  and inconvenience was 
enough. She was inconvenienced by having to take the car back  to garage M for corrective 
work. It would have had to go back to the garage  the first time anyway, as a part that had 
been ordered hadnt arrived  on time. So there  was no extra delay or inconvenience at that 
point. But when the car was returned again, that was purely due to the extra work  caused (or 
not properly repaired) by garage M. That must have been very frustrating for Mrs M, as well 
as inconvenient. 
As it seems that the work wasnt  completed properly for a second  time, Mrs M was 
inconvenienced further. She had to complain  to Zenith again.  Had had she gone  along with 
Zeniths wishes, shed  have had to wait for the independent assessor to report on the 
damage before anything  else was done. I dont  think she should have arranged to have the 
car repaired herself so quickly and without authorisation. But no further  effort on her part 
would have been necessary, had garage M just carried out the rectification  work  properly.   
I can see that Zenith apologised to Mrs M for garage  M telling her in error that only she  
and not the policys named driver  could drive  the garages courtesy  car. I think  Mrs M 
would have been inconvenienced by the unnecessary  restriction.  And she must have been  
annoyed and frustrated to find shed been  misled. I think Zenith should have paid some 
compensation for that poor service. 
Taking all the distress and inconvenience Mrs M faced into account, I think  it would be 
reasonable for Zenith  to pay her £350  compensation (including  the £75 already offered). 
Mrs M made  a claim on her policy which Zenith accepted and paid out on. So I think  its 
reasonable for it to expect her to pay the policy excess, in line with the policys  terms and 
conditions. As I dont think it should have to waive that sum, if Mrs M hasnt yet paid it, in my 
view it would be reasonable to deduct it from the settlement sum due to her.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mrs M didnt  comment. Zenith 
accepted it. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Zenith accepted my provisional findings without  further comment  - and Mrs M didnt 
respond - I see no reason  to depart from them.
Ref: DRN24396793my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance  plc to do the 
following:
Pay Mrs M £350 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience (including the 
£75 already offered)
Pay Mrs M £200 towards the repair bill from her garage, and add interest at the 
simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of settlement
If Mrs M hasnt paid the policy excess, Zenith  should deduct it from the sum due to her.
If Zenith thinks  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much  its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2439679