K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 11 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr M between  
21 August 2017  and 19 January 2018.  Mr M borrowed amounts ranging between  £100 and 
£500. The loans  were to be repaid in six monthly instalments. Mr M often  repaid  his loans 
early, but some loans  overlapped  so that in some months he was expected  to repay  
amounts up to about £300. From what I can see, Mr M repaid  all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Sunny disagreed. It said it didnt scrutinise  consumers 
bank statements. It said it was for consumers to decide  how to spend  their income. Sunny 
asked for an ombudsmans review and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his/her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN22913892Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit  
checks. Mr M said he earned £1,150 a month and his monthly expenditure ranged between  
£350 and £475. For loans  one to three, Mr M had to repay amounts ranging between about  
£25 and £159 a month.  He repaid loan two on the same day he took it out. 
For Mr Ms first three loans, given  the loan amounts, what  was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr M provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr M was saying. So I cant say it was wrong  for Sunny to provide loans one 
to three. 
But loan four was Mr Ms fourth loan in two months. He took it out the same  day he repaid 
loan three.  So I think  Sunny  should have asked further  questions  about Mr Ms finances and 
verified what hed told it before approving  further loans. Sunny said it verified  Mr Ms income.  
But I cant see that it verified his outgoings, for example  by looking at his bank  statements. 
So I dont  think Sunnys affordability checks  for loan four were  proportionate or sufficient. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan four would  most  likely have 
shown that Mr M was having  problems managing his money  and he was using significant 
amounts of his income for gambling;
So I think if Sunny had made enough  checks it would have seen, as I have, that Mr M was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this loan, and any subsequent loans. So I think  it 
shouldnt have provided Mr M with further loans from loan four onwards.  
Sunny said it was for Mr M to spend his income  as he chose. But I think  that as a 
responsible lender, if it had seen that Mr M was using his loans to support a significant 
gambling habit,  then it would have declined  them.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
seven. I say this because the pattern  of lending shows that the loans  were  unsustainable:
Ref: DRN22913893By loan seven, Mr M had taken  seven loans in four months. The amounts he borrowed 
didnt significantly decrease over this period or for the rest of his borrowing. So I think 
Sunny should  have  realised that Mr M was persistently reliant  on short-term borrowing.
Mr M was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of settling a previous one. So 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more  likely  than not Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan seven 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The sheer number  of loans and deferrals  was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ms ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to eleven and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  four to eleven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr Ms credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans seven  to eleven should be removed 
from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr M compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2291389