K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained that Canada  Life Limited declined to pay her claim under her 
employers group critical illness policy following her diagnosis with Multiple Sclerosis (MS).  
background
Mrs F joined her employers group  insurance scheme when it first began  in January 2013.  
As is often the case for group schemes,  Mrs F was not required to complete an application 
or answer  medical questions before cover started. The policy  provided  cover for eligible 
employees who suffered  a specified  illness. Mrs F became  ill at the end of January 2013 and 
was diagnosed with MS in August 2013.  Mrs F made a claim under the policy  in 
October 2017. 
Canada Life said Mrs Fs medical  condition met the definition of MS under the policy  in 
August 2013 and it decided to consider Mrs Fs claim even though it was not submitted 
within the stipulated  timeframe. However, it said the pre-existing related conditions  exclusion 
applies to her employers  scheme and declined her claim. This says no benefit  will be 
payable under the policy in respect of:
an insured  illness in respect of which any related condition existed at any time prior to entry 
to the employers group critical illness scheme  by the insured person,  unless  at least two 
consecutive years have  elapsed since the insured person  last had symptoms of, or received 
treatment or advice in respect of such related condition.
The related conditions  for Multiple Sclerosis are: Any form of neuropathy, encephalopathy 
or myelopathy (disorders of function of the nerves) including, but not restricted to the 
following: abnormal sensation (numbness) of extremities,  trunk or face; weakness or 
clumsiness of a limb; double vision; partial  blindness; ocular  palsy; vertigo (dizziness);  
difficulty of bladder control; optic neuritis, spinal cord lesion and abnormal MRI scan.
Canada Life said Mrs F told her neurologist  she had experienced numbness and a degree of 
weakness to her left foot around  twelve to eighteen months prior to the consultation with him 
in February 2013.  And Canada Life said this meant she had suffered some of the related  
conditions prior to her entry into the scheme. As such the related conditions  exclusion is 
applicable and the claim was declined.   
Mrs F complained to Canada Life about  its decision to decline her claim.  She said her 
neurologist had been trying to establish  a diagnosis when she was asked about any previous 
falls or sensations in her limbs. Mrs F said she considered the tingling in her feet to be 
caused by wearing high heeled stilettos  for work  and said this is a common consequence of 
wearing such footwear. At no time did she consider seeking medical  attention. She said that 
prior to being diagnosed she did not experience  an abnormal sensation or weakness  and 
there is no evidence  in her medical records to suggest she did. She said Canada  Life has 
relied on a poorly  worded sentence in a letter from the neurologist, which  does not in any 
way establish  that she was suffering from a related  condition. 
Ref: DRN25654862Canada Life responded and said the claim was correctly declined. It said the evidence  it 
relied on was not limited  to the letter from the neurologist in February 2013 and it listed  four 
other sources of medical information. 
Mrs F then complained to this service. Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. Our 
investigator said she had considered the medical evidence  as well as Mrs Fs argument that 
the numbness she experienced wasnt abnormal.  Our investigator  said the relevant term isnt 
saying Mrs F needs to experience abnormal numbness, it is saying that numbness is in itself 
an abnormal  sensation.  And so any numbness would be considered abnormal and the 
exclusion relied on by Canada Life would apply. 
Our investigator also said that although the evidence suggests we cant be absolutely certain 
that the earlier numbness in Mrs Fs foot was a symptom of MS, the policy  conditions  are so 
broad that they allow Canada Life to decline the claim even if symptoms of a related 
condition are present.  She said that it was the neurologists  opinion  that Mrs F had the first 
symptoms in 2012 and it was reasonable for Canada Life to rely on this.  
Mrs F was unhappy with the outcome  and the complaint  has been passed  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Fs complaint.  
Canada Life has acknowledged that Mrs F has a diagnosis of MS that meets the policy  
definition. So it is the related condition  exclusion that has led to the claim being turned down.  
I will start by explaining  that the nature of employer group insurance schemes is such  that 
employees are often not asked to answer any medical questions  or declare any medical  
conditions prior to joining the scheme.  This is because it wouldnt be practical  for an insurer 
to assess the risk of insuring each employee at the point they join the scheme.  This can 
benefit the employee in that it can often  make the policy  cheaper  to run and so cheaper  for 
the employee to join. But it also means  that broad policy terms, such as the exclusion being 
relied on in Mrs Fs case, are often used.
The purpose of this type of exclusion is to ensure claims are made only for medical 
conditions that didnt exist at the point in time that cover under the policy  started. 
So what  I am looking at is whether or not Canada Life was acting fairly when it turned down 
Mrs Fs claim on the basis that she had a related  condition of MS at the time that she joined 
the scheme. And Im satisfied that Canada Life was acting fairly. Ill explain why.  
The circumstances of this complaint are that Mrs F experienced  some numbness and 
possible weakness to her left foot around  twelve to eighteen months prior to joining the 
scheme. But, by Mrs Fs account,  she was not concerned about these symptoms, she did 
not seek medical advice  in relation  to them and the symptoms appear to have been a one-off 
occurrence. 
Mrs F disclosed these  symptoms to her neurologist in February 2013, following being  
hospitalised with what was originally thought to be a stroke.  Although I dont know  the full 
details of Mrs Fs conversation with her neurologist, it appears he was trying to establish  
Ref: DRN25654863whether a diagnosis of MS was appropriate  and was asking direct questions about  falls, 
numbness and weakness.
Mrs F has said that the numbness she experienced in her left foot should  not be considered 
abnormal and so should not be excluded under the pre-existing condition term. She says it 
could have been caused by something like wearing high heeled shoes for lengthy  periods of 
time. 
But regardless of whether Mrs F sees the numbness as normal  or abnormal, Im satisfied 
that Canada Life are allowed to rely on the information provided by her neurologist in relation 
to when she might have experienced symptoms related  to MS. And when the neurologist 
was contacted by Canada  Life in 2017, he said he is of the opinion that this experience of 
numbness was one of the first symptoms of MS experienced by Mrs F. Canada Life are 
allowed to rely on this medical testimony. 
It seems  that Mrs F joined her employers scheme  in good faith and she does not appear to 
have known that she might have  experienced symptoms  of MS at the time that she joined  
the scheme. And so I can understand that it must  be frustrating for her to have her claim 
declined. But, although I have a good deal of sympathy for Mrs Fs situation, I could only ask 
Canada Life to pay the claim if I thought it had acted unfairly. And, for the reasons Ive 
outlined above,  I dont think it has on this occasion.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565486