K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc closed  his account and registered a fraud  
marker against his name.
Background
Mr Ms account received  a credit of £8,800 on 26 June 2017.  
On 26 and 27 June,  his debit card was used to buy foreign currency  and to make payments 
to a mobile phone  provider.  It was also used at ATMs to withdraw cash.
On 27 June, Clydesdale received a warning that the credit payment into Mr Ms account  was 
fraudulent. It blocked his account and cancelled his debit card. On 30 June, it wrote  to Mr M 
saying it would be closing  his account.  
Mr M raised  a complaint when he received the letter. He said he didnt know where the 
money came from or who transferred it. And he said he didnt make the card transactions  as 
he was away on a fishing  holiday for ten days. He said he was the victim of a fraud.
Clydesdale decided not to re-open his account for the following reasons: 
his account  received  fraudulent funds
a third party wouldnt transfer money  into his account without a guarantee they could 
get the money out
he had called the bank to unblock  the card on 26 June, after a payment  was 
declined. In that call, he confirmed he knew about the foreign currency transactions
Mr M couldnt  explain how a third party obtained  his debit card and PIN.
It subsequently registered a CIFAS marker against  his name.
Mr M wasnt happy with the banks  decision  and so he brought his complaint to this service. 
He told this service that during the relevant period,  he was on a fishing trip. There were no 
banks nearby. He said he couldnt remember if he had his card with him. He also said he 
didnt make the call to the bank on 26 June. He said there was no signal for a mobile phone.
The investigator didnt  uphold his complaint because:
Mr M couldnt  explain how a third party got hold of his card and PIN
whoever purchased the foreign currency wouldve needed to produce ID. The ID
document wouldve matched the personal  details on the debit card
the caller to the bank knew Mr Ms telephone banking  security details and inputted
an access code when  asked to do so
Mr M couldnt  provide  any evidence  of his fishing trip.
Based on the evidence,  she thought  it was more likely than not that he authorised  the 
disputed transactions  and knew  about  the £8,800. For these reasons, she concluded that 
Clydesdale was entitled to close his account  and register a CIFAS  marker.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25572522When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr M and Clydesdale  have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of my 
decision. However, I can assure both that Ive read the file, including  their comments  and 
evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Clydesdale has recorded a CIFAS  marker against Mr M because a fraudulent credit was 
paid into his account. The bank says he subsequently spent  the money. So I need  to 
consider whether Mr M authorised the spending  on the account and whether the CIFAS 
marker has been correctly  recorded  as a result. 
Having reviewed the transaction history, Im satisfied Mr Ms genuine  card and PIN were 
used in order for the disputed transaction to take place.  
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  
Clydesdale to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the withdrawals being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Clydesdale  to conclude  that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mr M hasnt explained  how, where  or when he lost his debit card.
Mr M said he didnt  share his card or bank details with anyone  or keep a written note 
of his PIN. This leaves him as the only person who knew  the PIN.
The caller on 26 June  passed through the banks  security by answering questions, 
which only Mr M would know the answers  to.
Its likely  that an ID document was needed to buy the foreign currency, especially at 
the Post Office.  If so, then I can reasonably assume  that the name on the ID 
document matched the name  on the card and the photo matched the person buying  
the currency.
The online banking audit report shows that Mr M logged  into his online account  on 
26, 27, 28 and 30 June  2017.  He wouldve seen the credit of £8,800. It was an 
unusually large amount  for his account. I dont think he wouldve missed it. Yet, he 
didnt contact the bank to query it. In fact, his evidence is that he didnt contact the 
bank until after he received a letter saying it was going to close  his account  and that 
was on 30 June  2017. And he only contacted the bank to complain about the 
decision to close his account, not the transactions.
Mr M hasnt provided evidence of his fishing trip  for example, he hasnt given any 
accommodation details,  what  he did for money or whether he went with friends.  
Overall, I dont  find Mr Ms testimony to be persuasive. 
On balance, I consider  its more  likely  than not that Mr M authorised the transactions  and 
that he knew about the fraudulent credit, even if he didnt make  the transfer himself.
Ref: DRN25572523The full details of the CIFAS test are set out in the investigators view so I wont repeat them 
here. Suffice  to say, based  on the evidence, I consider that Clydesdale  can demonstrate  that 
it met the test for registering the CIFAS  marker  and so I wont  be asking it to remove  it.
I am sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr M but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557252