K820x#14complaint
Mrs N has complained about advice she received to contract out of the State Earnings  
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1988.  The advice was provided by Barclays Life but 
responsibility for dealing  with the complaint now lies with ReAssure Limited.
background
Mrs N met with a representative  from ReAssure  in July 1988. At the time she was 23 years 
old and employed.  She was earning £7000 per annum. 
Mrs N received advice to start a personal  pension plan and to contact out of SERPS. The 
plan was set up with Mr N initially paying £50 per month, alongside the National Insurance 
rebates that were  redirected from SERPS. Mrs N increased her contributions to £70 per 
month following  further advice in 1990. 
Mrs N complained to ReAssure in 2018 because a recent statement had shown  that her plan 
was projected to achieve considerably less than the illustrations at the time of the sale had 
anticipated. 
ReAssure reviewed the complaint but it didnt  think the policy had been mis-sold. Mrs N 
remained unhappy so she referred  her complaint  to our service for an independent  review.  
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and concluded that the plan was suitable for 
Mrs N at the time it was sold. She also acknowledged Mrs Ns concerns about the plans 
performance and explained that the rates of growth at the time the plan was sold (between 
8.5% and 13%), havent been achieved. This is because  growth  predictions  in the 1980s 
were a lot more optimistic  due to a very different economic climate. And unfortunately 
investment returns across all investments have been significantly below what was expected. 
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigators conclusion so the matter  has been  passed to me for 
a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
I understand Mrs N is disappointed that she may now receive less than was predicted at the 
time of the sale. But this doesnt mean the original advice was unsuitable.  I have to consider 
the advice given in 1988 in light of what was thought reasonable at that time.
Part of Mrs Ns policy  allowed her to contract  out of SERPS. When  the government  decided 
to allow  individuals  to contract out, incentives  were  offered to encourage them to do so. No 
guidance was given on who should  be advised to remain in SERPS or on the type of person 
who would  benefit  from contracting out. So pension providers actuaries carried  out 
comparisons of the projected benefits  from SERPS  with those from alternative personal 
pension arrangements. The calculations were based  on what were felt to be conservative 
assumptions of future investment returns at the time. 
Ref: DRN28874242The rebates  paid by the government for those who contracted out were set in such  a way 
that it was more attractive for younger  people to contract out than those who were older. The 
ages where advice changed  about  whether to contract out or not were  called pivotal  ages.
Mrs N was 23 at the time of the sale and so was younger than ReAssures pivotal age for 
women, that being  40. Based on the conservative assumptions used, it was thought in broad  
terms that women beneath the pivotal age would be better off contracting  out of SERPS.  
Another factor used  to determine  whether someone  was likely to be better off contracting  out 
of SERPS was their earnings. Mrs Ns earnings at the time were  above the lower earnings 
limit that ReAssure had set for individuals to contract out of SERPS. And this lower  limit of 
£2132 was the level of earnings  considered  to be enough to ensure that rebates forwarded 
by the government would cover any plan charges (including any commission payable). And 
theres no suggestion that Mrs N had an employers  occupation pension  scheme (OPS) 
available to her at the time of the sale. 
This means  that Mrs N met the criteria  for both age and earnings, which suggested 
contracting out of SERPS wouldve appeared to provide a reasonable prospect of providing 
her with better benefits at retirement  age. 
In addition to her plan receiving the SERPS  rebates,  Mrs N also chose to contribute  £50 per 
month to her plan.  But as she didnt have access to an employers OPS, and the information 
suggests she didnt  have any alternative  pension  provision, the advice  to make her own 
contributions to the plan, wasnt unsuitable. 
The crux of Mrs Ns complaint relates  to the performance of her plan.  This is because the 
plan is now not expected  to achieve  the returns that were predicted at the time of the sale.  
There are two main reasons for this. Firstly,  the illustrations were  based on the SERPS 
rebates being  received each year until Mrs N reached the age of 60. However,  the 
Government stopped people from contracting out in 2012. So the SERPS contributions 
stopped at that point, 13 years before it was anticipated. This isnt something that couldve 
been foreseen so I cant hold ReAssure responsible for this. 
In addition, the growth rates used  in the illustration  Mrs N has referred  to from the time of the 
sale were set by the regulator. These  rates have  unfortunately  not been  achieved because  
investment returns havent been what was expected when the policy was taken out. But this 
doesnt mean the advice given in 1988 to contract out and start this plan was unsuitable  for 
Mrs N. The fact that anticipated higher investment returns and so better retirement  benefits  
for Mrs N at retirement  have  not transpired can only be judged  with the benefit of hindsight.
Ref: DRN28874243I do appreciate that Mrs N will be disappointed  but having taken everything into 
consideration, I dont  think the plan was mis-sold. So Im not upholding the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2887424