K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Tesco Personal Finance plc failed  to cancel his car insurance policy according to 
his instructions.
Mr R also expressed his concern about the quote he was given for cover at renewal. And 
during the course of this case he broadened his point to encompass the level of premiums 
hed been paying to Tesco over the past 13 years.
Ive agreed with Tesco that it makes sense to consider the pricing  issues Mr R has raised 
together as a separate complaint. That will give it an opportunity to respond to his points in 
the round  while  the issue of Mr Rs renewal can be dealt with now.
background
Mr Rs car insurance policy was due for renewal on 28 July 2018.  After reviewing Tescos 
quote dated 1 July, he decided to buy cover from another business. Mr R says he rang 
Tesco on 3 August 2018 to cancel his policy and that he confirmed his instructions in writing.
Tesco says it didnt  receive any communication from Mr R saying he wanted  to cancel his 
policy until 30 August  2018. His insurance was automatically renewed so it wanted  payment 
up until the point  Mr Rs cover ended.
Mr R has a number of concerns about what happened. Hes adamant he informed Tesco of 
his decision to cancel  the policy much earlier than it says he did. And hes cross Tesco is 
demanding payment and threatening to pass his details onto a debt collection agency.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr R disagreed  so his complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
As well as testimony, Ive reviewed documents provided by both parties.  This includes policy 
documents, correspondence and case notes. Mr R says he called  Tesco on 3 August 2018. 
Ive no reason to doubt this is his genuine recollection of events but there are no records  of 
his contact. And the cancellation letter he says he sent to Tesco  wasnt  received.
In situations like this, where there are different versions of events, I have to weigh the 
information I do have  and base my findings  on what I think  is most likely to have happened.  
Having done so I cant fairly conclude Tesco has got things wrong. It seems Mr Rs first 
contact about  cancelling  his policy was on 30 August 2018. But thats  not the end of the 
matter.
Mr R says he bought  a different motor policy. A consumer  cant profit from insurance  its 
designed to make up for a loss a policyholder might  suffer, not to put them  in a better 
position. If there were  two live policies  in force, Mr R could never have received a full 
settlement from both insurers if hed had to make a claim.
Ref: DRN29954582So, where a customer  has ended up with dual insurance, depending on the circumstances, 
our approach is to suggest a refund be made for the period the consumer can show 
theyd been paying for both policies covering the same  thing.
In its final response Tesco  told Mr R that if he could provide proof of his new insurance then 
it would  consider making a refund. I think this is reasonable.
Tesco did acknowledge that in the four calls it received from Mr R about  cancelling his 
insurance none of its advisers told him about  sending in proof of his dual insurance. And it 
found other shortfalls in the customer service  he received. In recognition  of this it offered Mr 
R £35. I think this is fair.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint for the reasons Ive set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2995458