K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) attempted  to take 
payment for his hire agreement on a date that wasnt agreed  with the dealership.  He wants  
any negative markers  removed from his credit  file, an apology for how his complaint has 
been handled, and compensation. 
Background
Mr S entered into a hire agreement with VWFS in December 2018  to lease a new car. He 
says that when he went to collect the car on 27 December 2018 he told the sales  adviser 
that he didnt get paid until the end of the month and so the initial  payment mustnt  be taken 
until 28 January 2019  or later. He says the sales adviser agreed to this and said he had 
notified the finance team.
Mr S received a letter from VWFS  saying that payment would be taken on 17 January 2019. 
He called VWFS and raised  a complaint. He says he made several calls and was told that if 
the funds werent  available then a second  collection attempt would be made  10 days later. 
Mr S says he explained he didnt want this to affect his credit  file and was told not to worry.
Mr S says he received  a letter  in March saying that funds were due. He discussed this with 
VWFS and asked why it had taken  so long for him to be contacted. He says the VWFS 
contact was rude. He says he was ready  to work  out a repayment plan.
VWFS says that Mr S contacted it on 11 January to update  his address and payment date. It 
says it was explained that it could  only change the date of the rental payments  and not the 
initial payment.  It says Mr S was told that if the initial payment wasnt paid this would be 
reported to the credit  reference agencies. Mr S complaint was raised  at this time.
VWFS says it contacted  the dealer and was told that the sales adviser was detailed  in their 
work and that the terms and conditions would have been explained to Mr S before he signed  
the agreement. It also noted that the agreement was proposed on 23 November and signed 
on 2 January allowing Mr S time to review  it and raise any issues.  It issued its final response  
letter not upholding Mr S complaint on 22 January and says it then didnt hear from him until 
March 2019 following a letter regarding the arrears  due to the initial payment still being 
outstanding. 
Mr S called on 19 March to discuss setting up a payment plan. He was called back  on 20 
March and transferred  to the collections team. Mr S raised a further complaint about the 
incorrect date in January.  On 1 May,  Mr S called to say he wanted to clear  some of the 
arrears in March but he didnt due to the service provided by the VWFS contact. He then 
made a part payment and said that he wouldnt set up a repayment plan until his complaint 
had been investigated by the financial ombudsman service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that a feature  of the agreement was 
that the initial payment would be taken before the monthly rentals and usually close to the 
start of the agreement. She said that the finance deal was proposed on 23 November 2018 
and activated  on 2 January 2019  which gave Mr S time to discuss  the initial payment or 
make arrangements  for the funds  to be available.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that had Mr S been  aware that the initial  payment date 
couldnt be changed that this would have stopped him entering  into the agreement.  She 
Ref: DRN20498852noted Mr S comments that he had the money available 10 days  later but refused to pay due 
to the poor customer service he had received. She said having  listened to the calls she didnt 
think he received poor customer  service  and said that Mr S could have prevented further 
negative information  being noted on his credit file had he made the payment when he had 
the funds available.
Our investigator didnt  think that VWFS had done  anything wrong by recording the markers 
on Mr S credit file.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators  view and so it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a hire agreement and in doing  so agree to its terms and conditions.  I have 
looked at the agreement  and can see that this sets out the advance rental amount (initial 
payment) and the monthly rentals. The terms of the agreement say that by the time the 
agreement is made  the advance  rental must be paid.  Therefore I find that Mr S should have 
been reasonably aware that the initial payment would  need to be made  at the time of the 
agreement being  activated or shortly after.
A welcome  letter was sent to Mr S dated 3 January. This set out that the initial payment was 
due on 17 January. I have  listened to a call between VWFS and Mr S on 11 January. He 
says he wants the date for the initial payment moved but is told that the date cant  be 
changed. Mr S didnt accept this and said the date would  need to be changed or the 
payment be split. He then said that he should have been told when he collected  the car 
when the initial payment  would be debited as he hadnt agreed to the date in the letter  and 
he didnt get paid until the end of the month. He said if he had been  told when he collected  
the car he wouldnt have agreed to this.
Mr S has also said that he told the sales adviser the initial  payment mustnt  go from his 
account until the 28 January or later and says this was agreed. VWFS said Mr S had been  
provided with the terms and conditions and didnt accept that a later date for the initial  
payment would have  been agreed.
Given the conflicting evidence provided in this account I have made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider  most  likely  to have happened given the 
information provided and the wider circumstances of this case. In this case I accept that M S 
was aware of the amount  he was due to pay as the initial payment. However  it appears  that 
there was a misunderstanding regarding  when the payment would be made. However based 
on the information I have seen I do not find that I have  enough  to say the initial  payment or 
payment date was misrepresented to him. I say this because  of the different comments 
about what would have been discussed at the point of supply and also the comments Mr S 
made on the 11 January call about the date not being mentioned.  Given  this I do not find it 
unreasonable that the welcome  letter included the date for the payment as 17 January 2019. 
The agreement set out the initial payment would need to be made by the time the agreement  
is made and the 17 January was after that date and so I would find it reasonable that Mr S 
should have ensured the funds were available.
Ref: DRN20498853Mr S says that this issue has affected  his credit  file. I havent seen a copy of his credit  file but 
note that VWFS are required to report accurate information to the credit reference  agencies 
regarding Mr S account. Mr S didnt  make the initial  payment on time and despite  him 
saying on the January  2019 call that he was short of the amount by a few hundred pounds 
and he just needed a date change  he didnt make the payment shortly after the due date. If 
this has been  reflected  on Mr S credit file I do not find this unreasonable.
I note Mr S comments  about VWFS  not contacting him until March  about the outstanding 
payment but it is his responsibility to ensure his payments are made  on time. 
Mr S has also complained about  the service he has received. I have listened to the calls and 
I can understand why Mr S was frustrated that his initial payment date couldnt  be changed. 
However I cannot say that VWFS were  wrong to say this or, based on what I have heard that 
he was treated unfairly or not provided with the service he should have been.
Overall I appreciate that Mr S is upset that the initial payment  wasnt  on the date he wanted 
but I do not find that I have enough to say that VWFS has done anything wrong in this case.  
So while I appreciate this will be disappointing  for Mr S, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2049885