K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe)  Plc gave him incorrect  information about the 
impact of a late payment  on his credit file.
background 
Mr G holds a credit  card account with Capital One. On 25 May 2018 he instructed his bank, 
which Ill refer to as H within this decision,  to make  a monthly payment to Capital One as a 
faster payment.  But instead of doing that H processed Mr Gs payment through Bank Giro 
Credit, which  resulted in Capital One receiving it 30 May 2018  one day late.
When Capital One received  Mr Gs payment it applied a late charge and interest. These 
charges were reimbursed  by H and it awarded him £100 as a goodwill gesture to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused  by its error.
When Mr G discussed what had happened with Capital One it told him it had reported late 
payment information  to credit reference  agencies.  It accepted he hadnt been responsible for 
it receiving his payment  late. So, it refunded the late payment  fee it had charged him. But it 
said he would need to contact credit reference agencies to explain why he had made  a 
payment late. Mr G said when he asked  Capital One which  credit  reference agencies it had 
reported his late payment  to it didnt know. So, it said he would  have to check himself.
Mr G found out later that Capital One hadnt  reported negative information  to credit reference 
agencies. It explained  that it reports to credit  reference agencies  on the last day of each 
month and that, as Mr Gs payment had reached  Capital One by this point, it reported his 
account was fully up to date. It said it had also made  a note on Mr Gs account about what 
had happened.
Mr G was unhappy that hed been  given conflicting information by Capital One about what  
information it had reported to credit  reference  agencies. He said the worry that his credit file 
had been adversely impacted due to an error  that was not his fault caused him unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience. He also said he spent a considerable amount of time in trying to 
resolve what had happened. In view of this, he referred his complaint  to our service.
After our service became involved in this complaint Capital One agreed it had given Mr G 
conflicting information about the impact of the late payment. And it offered to compensate  
him £100 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience this had caused. But Mr G rejected 
that offer. He felt Capital One should pay him £200 given the time it had taken  to resolve 
these problems and the stress he had experienced.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and, while  they empathised with him, they 
thought the compensation  Capital  One had offered was appropriate and fair. But Mr G 
disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN22054412I can see Mr G feels  very strongly about  what happened. Thats clear from what he said to 
both us and Capital One. And thats not surprising. I can appreciate that he was caused 
distress and inconvenience by what happened. 
Capital One has already  accepted it gave him conflicting information about  the impact  of a 
late payment on his credit file. Ive seen evidence to show it didnt report adverse information 
about Mr G to credit reference agencies.  So, the issue here is whether Capital One acted 
fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right about the mistake  it made.  In thinking 
about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
Mr G says Capital One never  acknowledged  it had provided him with incorrect  information 
about the impact  of his late payment on his credit file. But after our service investigated this 
complaint Capital One accepted it had told Mr G wrongly that it had reported his late 
payment to credit reference agencies. So, Im satisfied that Capital One has now accepted 
responsibility for giving  incorrect information to Mr G.
I realise that providing  incorrect information  to Mr G about his credit file is bound to have  
caused him upset,  frustration and inconvenience.  And I recognise that it was only after he 
referred his complaint to our service  that Capital One offered to compensate him for that. 
Its my role to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the individual  circumstances of a dispute. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Capital One to 
refund the late charge it applied and to compensate Mr G for the trouble and upset he was 
caused in being given  incorrect  information  about the impact of his late payment on his credit 
file. 
Capital One has offered  Mr G £100 to compensate him for the impact its mistake  had. Its 
clear he doesnt think  this adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. So, Ive 
assessed whether  the level of compensation Capital One paid appropriately recognises  what 
happened as far as he is concerned.
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr G made  to Capital  One on 19 June 2018.  During  this 
call Mr G asks whether  his credit file has been affected by the late payment. Hes placed on 
hold by the adviser who seeks clarification about this. She then explains the late payment 
has already been  reported to credit reference agencies  and that this happened  on 29 May.  
Its clear during this call that Mr G is very concerned about the impact of a late payment fee 
on his credit file. He queries which credit reference agency Capital One has reported his late 
payment to but he isnt given clear and definitive  advice about  this.  
Mr G told our service  that he was incorrectly made aware Capital One had reported to credit  
reference agencies  on 29 May 2018. But Capital One hasnt provided any call recordings 
beyond Mr Gs call on 19 June 2018.  And I havent  seen any evidence to demonstrate that 
he was told his credit file would be affected before his call with Capital One on 
19 June 2018.  So, Im satisfied this was the date on which  he was incorrectly  told by 
Capital One that it had reported his late payment to credit reference agencies.
On 29 June 2018 Capital One wrote to Mr G. In this correspondence it corrected the 
information it had given Mr G ten days earlier about  it reporting late payment  information to 
credit reference agencies. And it explained  that, instead, it reported  that his payments and 
account were up to date.
Ref: DRN22054413Mr G said, as a result  of being given  false information  by Capital One, he was caused  
unnecessary worry for months. But based  on the evidence Ive seen there was a ten day 
period during which Mr G had reason  to believe that Capital One had reported adverse credit  
information about him.
Mr G also says he spent a considerable amount  of time in trying  to resolve matters with 
Capital One. Hes said hes had to make up lost time at work while dealing with this 
complaint and hes incurred out of pocket expenses due to various visits to the bank and 
telephone calls. 
I dont doubt that that this has taken up Mr Gs time. But, Im afraid I have to tell him that I 
agree with the investigators view that £100  is an appropriate amount of compensation for 
Capital One to pay for the distress and inconvenience Mr G suffered. 
Mr G told our investigator that he wanted our service to tell Capital  One to train its staff to 
ensure they dont give incorrect information to customers in the future. But, as our 
investigator has said, looking  into how a business operates  or its general systems isnt 
something our service does.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in 
trying, to resolve  his dispute  with Capital One informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  
help Mr G further on this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold his complaint in part only to the extent  that 
Capital One (Europe) Plc should pay Mr G £100.  But other than this I dont need it to do 
anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205441