K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Mrs W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the policy. 
background
The policy was sold in 2011 over the phone a few years after Mrs W had taken a mortgage 
in 2009. 
The policy covered Mrs W in the event of accident, sickness and involuntary  unemployment.  
The monthly benefit was £1,158 and the monthly cost was just over £90.
Unhappy with Santanders response to the complaint, Mrs W referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been mis-sold. But 
Mrs W disagreed.  So the complaint  was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in March 2019   a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In short, I wasnt persuaded Mrs Ws policy  had been 
mis-sold. But I gave different reasons for coming  to that initial  conclusion  to those that our 
adjudicator gave.
Santander didnt  have any new information and/or arguments to make in response to my PD. 
But Mrs Ws representative did respond  in detail. And while it repeated  some  of the points 
that had been made  earlier on in the complaint,  the crux of its response concerned the cost 
of the policy  and its benefit  which Mrs Ws representative didnt think had been made clear 
during the sales  call because it suggested  that the script likely to have been followed by 
Santander didnt  point out that PPI premiums  may have been interest bearing while they 
were also payable during  a claim.
To address what Mrs Ws representative had said in response to my PD, I sent an email  to 
both parties on 21 May 2019. 
I said that the policy Mrs W has complained  about was sold some time after her mortgage  
and, like many mortgage  PPI policies, it looks like it was paid for by way of a separate  
monthly premium. So I didnt think that there  was anything persuasive to suggest the 
premiums were interest bearing.  As for the premiums being payable  in the event of a claim,  
I pointed out that the call script provided by Santander suggests  Mrs W would have been 
told that the monthly premium would be added to the monthly benefit level she chose to 
ensure she could afford the policy during a claim. So I wasnt  persuaded by this aspect of 
her representatives  argument  either.
I had read and considered everything  Mrs Ws representative had said in response to my 
PD. But for the reasons  I had already given, and in light of what I had said in my email, 
I wasnt persuaded to depart from the initial overall conclusion I reached  in March 2019.
In light of that, I gave  both parties  until 4 June  2019  to provide me with any new information  
and/or arguments  before  considering this complaint for a final decision.
Santander didnt  have any new information and/or arguments to make at that stage. But on 
4 June 2019, Mrs Ws representative reiterated the argument that she didnt need the PPI 
because she was a career employee  of the NHS. Her representative also repeated the point  
Ref: DRN20010812that she only wanted life cover  before  going on to ask why the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  
(FCA) rules and guidance   following the Supreme Court ruling in the case  Plevin   didnt 
apply to this complaint.
I sent both parties  another email  on 4 June 2019. I said I would consider what  
Mrs Ws representative had to say along with everything else on file ahead of a final 
decision. But, for the benefit of both parties, I did answer the question on Plevin in the 
meantime. 
I referred to the explanation our adjudicator had given in her assessment letter of 
21 August 2018   namely that the rules  and guidance that followed the Supreme Court ruling 
in the case of Plevin dont apply to certain  types  of mortgage agreement, including  a 
regulated mortgage. As Mrs Ws mortgage  started  in 2009, it was regulated. So I said that 
the rules dont apply.  And I also said that means Santander doesnt need to refund any of 
the commission Mrs W paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
However, I did go on to say that, if Mrs W had any new information to suggest  otherwise, 
she needed to provide  that by 18 June  2019   which was the deadline  I also gave Santander  
to respond by if it wanted to add anything.
Santander didnt  respond to my most recent  email. Mrs Ws representative  did. It seemed to 
accept that her mortgage was regulated. But it didnt see the relevance of that when 
determining the application of the rules and guidance following the ruling in Plevin. It argued 
that the PPI policy  was sold two years after Mrs W took her mortgage. And as a result, 
neither product had any bearing on the other as the PPI was free-standing.
So, with that and everything else thats been  said so far, Ive considered  the complaint for 
the purpose of a final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including,  as Ive said, everything thats 
been provided since my PD in March 2019.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
And having done all of that, Im still not persuaded to uphold  the complaint.
My reasons  for this decision dont differ to what Ive already said up until now. So it isnt 
necessary to repeat them in detail. 
But in summary,  Im satisfied that its more than likely Mrs W agreed to take the policy 
knowing that it was PPI she was taking. 
Im not persuaded Santander  recommended the PPI to Mrs W  which  means it didnt have 
to ensure the policy was suitable  for her. But Santander did have to make  sure she got the 
information she needed to decide that for herself. 
As I said in my PD, I think its more than likely that the cost and benefit of the policy were 
made clear to Mrs W. So it was for her to decide  whether to take the policy  with that 
knowledge in light of her sick pay and savings.  
Ref: DRN20010813However, it is possible that some of the information Santander gave Mrs W about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But as it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the cover, the policy would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. So I dont think her decision  to take PPI was prejudiced  as a result.
I have thought about whether Santander  needs to give back to Mrs W some of the 
commission she paid. As Ive already said, the Supreme Court ruling in the case  of Plevin 
and the rules and guidance that followed it dont apply to certain  types of mortgage  
agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  And as Mrs Ws mortgage was regulated, the 
rules and guidance dont apply. So Santander doesnt need  to refund any of the commission  
Mrs W paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
Mrs Ws representative has argued that the mortgage  isnt relevant when determining this 
issue because the policy was free-standing.  But the call script Ive referred to before makes  
it clear that the policy was only available to new or existing  Santander  mortgage  customers   
while the policy summary says that Mrs W had to be paying or about to pay a mortgage 
provided by Santander. So Im not persuaded the policy did stand alone. 
But even if, for arguments sake,  I accepted the assertion being made by Mrs Ws 
representative, thats only likely to lead to the finding Ive already made. The very protection 
Mrs Ws representative is seeking  to rely on (and that Ive considered)  is afforded  to 
consumers because of the pertinent provisions  of the Consumer Credit Act. And as the Act 
regulates credit agreements, it is precisely for that reason that the existence  of a credit  
agreement and its type are relevant to whether the rules and guidance in question are 
applicable. So, if there isnt a credit  agreement to consider as Mrs Ws representative  
suggests, the rules  and guidance simply wouldnt apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20010814copy  of my provisional  decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
And having done all of that, Im not currently inclined to uphold the complaint.
Santander has provided us with a copy of the call script it says would  have been followed during its 
call with Mrs W. While I dont  know whether and to what extent the script was followed, its currently 
the best evidence I have of whats likely  to have been covered as Mrs W hasnt told us what was 
discussed in much  detail.
Having looked through the call script, it does look like it directed Santanders member of staff to make  
it clear to Mrs W that the policy was separate to her mortgage  and optional before asking her if she 
wanted to take it. And as Mrs W doesnt seem to dispute that she agreed to take the policy (though  
she has more recently said that she had requested life cover rather  than PPI, which Ill come on to 
later), and as she hasnt suggested she thought  she had to take the cover, Im satisfied that shes 
likely to have agreed to take the policy  knowing she didnt  have to.
Both parties say that the policy was recommended.  But the call script Santander says was followed at 
the time suggests it wouldnt have been given any advice  to Mrs W. Instead, it looks like she had to 
be passed to an independent financial advisor for advice. As theres  nothing  persuasive to suggest 
thats what  happened, and as a contemporaneous summary of the conversation between  both parties  
says that Santander hadnt given Mrs W any advice,  Im not currently persuaded a recommendation 
was made despite what both parties have said.
This means  that I dont  think that Santander had to make sure the policy  was suitable for Mrs W. 
Instead, it only had to give her the information she needed  to decide for herself whether taking the 
policy was the right thing to do given what she knew about her circumstances at the time.
I think  its more  than likely that the cost and benefit of the policy was made  clear  to Mrs W as the call 
script covers those aspects  in quite some detail. So, while she may have had some savings  and been 
entitled to some sick pay, it was for her to decide whether  to take the policy  with knowledge  of those. 
And as she did take the policy, it looks like she wanted  the cover.
As Ive said above, Mrs W says that she had requested life cover. But the call script indicates  that 
Santander only offered two types of cover at the time  both of which  were variants of PPI. And as the 
subsequent summary of the conversation  between  Mrs W and Santander made  it clear that she had 
chosen accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  Im not persuaded theres  the evidence to say 
she requested  life cover.
I know Mrs W has also questioned the monthly benefit amount because  it was higher than her 
mortgage repayment. But she was permitted to choose a benefit  level that covered additional  
outgoings such as monthly premiums for other types of insurance (e.g. house insurance) and other 
regular bills. And thats what  it looks like she did as the paperwork following her conversation with 
Santander gave a detailed  breakdown  of what was covered  by the monthly  benefit amount  of £1,158.
In response to our adjudicators assessment, Mrs Ws representative has also argued that the policy 
was mis-sold  because she was approaching  the state  retirement age. But she was just over 55 at the 
time of sale.  And as the policy was paid for by way of a monthly premium,  she was free to cancel  it 
whenever she wanted/needed to. 
However, with all of that said,  it is possible that some of the information Santander gave Mrs W about 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But as it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the cover, the policy would have  been useful for her if something went  
wrong. So I dont think her decision to take PPI was prejudiced.
Ref: DRN2001081