K820x#14complaint
Miss V1 and Ms V2 say Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Miss V1 and Ms V2 took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Miss V1 and Ms V2 paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Miss V1 
in case she was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss V1 and Ms V2 disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss V1 and Ms V2s case.  
Ive decided that this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss V1 and Ms V2s mortgage  application  had a section  for PPI, which offered them  the 
choice to take PPI or turn it down. Its recorded Ms V2 didnt  want  PPI as she felt she had 
sufficient cover, but Miss V1 did want PPI. They declined other insurances that were 
discussed, so it looks  like Miss V1 and Ms V2 knew they didnt have to take all the 
insurances on offer. The adviser wrote down quite  a bit of detail about their discussion,  such  
as that Miss V1 wanted PPI because her old policy wasnt  transferable  to her new mortgage. 
And its set out what benefit Miss V1 wanted. Miss V1 and Ms V2 signed the form to confirm  
what was on it. They also submitted an application specifically for PPI, which again they both 
signed. And they set up a direct debit  to pay for the policy, separately  to paying for the 
mortgage itself  the PPIs cost wasnt automatically part and parcel  of the lending.  Overall, 
I think that Barclays made Miss V1 and Ms V2 aware they had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss V1 and Ms V2, so it had to check  it was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. For 
example, its recorded that Ms V2 didnt need  PPI, so it would make  sense  that it was set up 
for Miss V1 only. Miss V1 wasnt affected by any of the policys  key exclusions or limitations. 
While she had some  sick pay through work, the PPI covered her for longer and wouldve 
paid out on top of her work  benefits. And Miss V1 doesnt seem  to have had any other cover 
in case she lost her job. Its worth bearing in mind that if Miss V1 and Ms V2 fell behind on 
their mortgage payments,  they risked  losing their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful in protecting their home in case Miss V1 was off sick or lost her job.
Ref: DRN26185462Its possible that the information Barclays gave  Miss V1 and Ms V2 about PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely  
to have changed their minds. Here, Miss V1 and Ms V2 chose to take out PPI, so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover for Miss V1. As I explained above,  Miss V1 wasnt  affected  by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really  been useful in case  
something went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how much it would pay out in a 
claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly 
basis, so Miss V1 and Ms V2 could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss V1 and Ms V2s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss V1 and 
Ms V2 to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2618546