K820x#14complaint
Mr B is complaining about the way CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS)  has dealt with his 
claim under his motor  insurance policy. He disagrees with its decision to declare his car a 
total loss.
background
Mr Bs car was damaged significantly in September 2018 after hitting a pot hole and 
crashing. So he made  a claim on his motor insurance policy  with CIS. After assessing the 
damage CIS decided  his car was uneconomical to repair and classed  it a total loss. So it 
said it would  settle  the claim by paying  him the cars market value less his excess.  And it 
said the cars market  value was £17,640.
Mr B didnt agree with CISs decision to write  the car off as he wanted it to repair  the car. 
And asked  CIS if he could  get another repair quote from another  garage and CIS said he 
could. His garage  provided  an estimate  which was several thousand pounds cheaper  than 
the estimate from CISs  repairer.  As Mr Bs garage  isnt an approved repairer, CIS asked him 
to contact his car finance provider to see if theyd  be happy for repairs  to be carried out by a 
non-approved repairer. The finance provider said that any repairs  should be done by an 
approved repairer  using  the car manufacturers  approved parts. The finance provider also 
said if repairs by non-approved  repairer  were carried out or non-manufacturer approved 
parts were  used this could invalidate the warranty and would be contrary  to the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs agreement.
CISs engineer had concerns about the quote and the garage Mr B had put forward.  So it 
wouldnt approve the repairs being done by the garage Mr B put forward.  Mr B feels  this 
wasnt fair so he complained. 
CIS has said it treated  Mr B fairly.  So it didnt  change its position. 
Mr B disagreed, so he brought  his complaint to us. The adjudicator explained why she 
thought CIS had treated  Mr B fairly  as she said CIS was entitled to decide  how to settle the 
claim. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. He said that CIS initially told him that the 
initial quote was fine and fell within the repair total,  so it would be authorised. And he says it 
then changed  its stance and said it wouldnt cover it. He says the cost of repair was less 
than the value of the car, so he says that CIS should have repaired it. He says it should only 
be written off if the cost of repair was more than the cars market value. 
As Mr B doesnt agree with the adjudicator, his complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS and Mr B dont  agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is most  
likely to have happened. Or in other  words,  what happened on the balance  of probabilities.
Ref: DRN29913932Having considered everything  here Im not persuaded by Mr Bs arguments. So I wont  be 
upholding his complaint for the following reasons.
Ive considered the two quotes  for the repairs.  The quote Mr B has put forward  is far less 
comprehensive than that provided  by CISs chosen  engineer. It essentially says it will 
remove various parts of the car (listed) and then simply says it will replace them. Then  
follows quoted  prices for labour, paints  and materials, parts, VAT and then a total of 
£8,968.68.
In comparison the repairer CIS has used has provided a far more comprehensive and 
detailed quote  which covers each damaged item, giving guide numbers for those parts and 
describing the work units to deal with each issue. This list of work items required runs to 
over four pages  and the overall quote covering  all the surrounding details  of this car is 
several pages more.
Having considered the quotes together its clear to me that the CIS quote  is comprehensive, 
professional and quoting manufacturer parts costs to put the car back  to the state it would 
have been in prior to the damage being  done.  
Mr Bs quote  is less professional, doesnt  provide a breakdown  of the required  parts  or their 
individual costs.  It also doesnt allocate work units or otherwise itemise the labour costs to 
the work.  As such I dont consider the quote  that Mr B sourced to be reliable with regard to 
returning the car to the state it was in prior to the damage being  caused. I say this for a 
variety of reasons  including the CIS repairers quote shows  the parts total cost is over 
£10,000 whereas  the quote Mr B sourced shows  the parts being less than half that cost.  I 
think it unlikely there  is such variance in costing of all genuine manufacturer  parts.
I am also concerned  that Mr Bs quote doesnt  properly address the apparent structural 
damage to the car. The quote  doesnt  cover areas of the car which  CIS quote does cover.  
And clearly it is important that the car, if repaired, is returned to both how it was before the 
accident but also to be safe. All in all I dont  think these are like for like quotes. And I think  
the quote from CIS repairer is far more likely to return the car to a state closer to how the 
car was prior to the damage than that from the repairer Mr B sourced.
As a result of the above I think  CISs  repairers  decision not to authorise the repairs  by Mr 
Bs repairer  was fair and reasonable  on the comparison  of the quotes. And I dont think the 
engineers concerns about Mr Bs suggested  repairer not being an approved  repairer and the 
relatively low cost of the parts needing  replacing on Mr Bs quote were  unfair. . Ultimately 
CIS wants to ensure  the car is safe after any repairs are undertaken. And not only is this fair 
in the circumstances, CIS should take reasonable steps to ensure this.
I can see Mr B is frustrated by the delays  in this matter. But I dont think there  is any 
unreasonable delay on CISs part here.  And it should be remembered that some of the time 
taken has been  due to Mr Bs decision  to contest the CIS engineers position.
Mr B has made comments in response to the view of the adjudicator about what he was told 
by the garage  around his repairers  quote going to being authorised.  This may or may not be 
the case. However it is clear from what Mr B has said that he was on notice that his finance 
company would be decisive in such decisions.  And CIS isnt responsible  for the decisions 
taken by the finance company. So I dont think  Mr Bs comments here make  a difference.
Ref: DRN29913933Mr B has also said that CIS shouldnt  have declared his car a total loss because the repair 
quotes arent more  than the market value.  So he says it shouldnt be deemed beyond 
economic repair. Ive considered this but, under  the terms of Mr Bs insurance policy, CIS 
was entitled to decide whether to repair the car or write it off. Taking into account the amount 
that CIS would receive for the cars salvage I think its likely  it would  have cost CIS more to 
repair the car then write it off. So I dont think its decision was unfair. All in all, having 
considered the evidence  I think  CIS has treated Mr B fairly across what  has happened  here.  
So I am not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about  CIS 
General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2991393