K820x#14complaint 
Mrs W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Select packaged 
bank account  in August 1999. Mrs W says that she did not agree to this account and thought 
it was related to her overdraft facility.
background 
One of our adjudicators has investigated  Mrs Ws complaint already and she didnt think that 
Lloyds mis-sold the packaged account. Mrs W didnt agree this and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
 Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Mrs Ws 
complaint should  be upheld.  And Id like to explain why. Ive started  by thinking about 
whether Mrs W was given a clear choice  in taking the packaged account. At this point, it may 
help for me to explain  that I must make my decision based on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  having weighed up what both Mrs W and Lloyds have been able to provide 
me with. 
Mrs W has said that her account was upgraded without her knowledge. I can see that Mrs W 
upgraded to the Select account from a free one that shed held for several  years. So I think 
that Mrs W wouldve known Lloyds did fee free accounts 
Ive also thought about what  Mrs Ws said about  not agreeing to the account. But I have  to 
think about what shes said in the context that the upgrade  took place an incredibly  long time 
ago  more than twenty years. And quite understandably Mrs W may no longer recall 
agreeing to the account.
That said looking at the notes at the time I can see that a few months before the upgrade 
Mrs W renewed an overdraft facility  which  suggests she was using an overdraft at that point. 
At the time of this upgrade the Select  account cost £4 a month and it came with two main 
benefits, breakdown  cover and a fee free overdraft of £50. Whereas, on a fee free account, 
an account holder  would have to pay £5 per month if an overdraft  facility  was used. So if Mrs 
W used her the first £50 of her overdraft facility  while holding the Select account she would 
save money on a monthly basis and she would get the benefit of breakdown  cover.
Mrs W has mentioned  that she would not have agreed to upgrade  this account as it was not 
her main  account and she did not really use it. She has further  explained that she only had 
family allowance paid in and did not have any direct debits set up. I accept that this may 
have been the case in more recent  times, but from the earliest statements her salary is being 
paid in and direct debits were  being paid from the account as well. So, it seems as if Mrs W 
was using this account more than she recalls. Therefore, as she was using the account and 
as the overdraft benefit would potentially save her money, I think that it is likely that at the 
time Mrs W did agree to take out this account,  albeit in circumstances she no longer recalls 
Ref: DRN27145302I am satisfied that no personal recommendation was made during the sale of this account. 
Therefore, Lloyds did not need to ensure that it was right for Mrs W but it did need to give 
her enough  information to be able to decide this for herself. I am satisfied that it is more 
likely than not that the main benefits would  have been set out to her after all Lloyds would 
have wanted to make the account seem  attractive to Mrs W. 
I do accept though that Mrs W may not have been told everything about all the benefits that 
the account came with. But I cant see anything specific that she was not told that I think  
would have altered her decision  to take out the account.
I can see that over time the benefits that the account came with changed  and therefore  this 
account may not have been  as useful to Mrs W as it was when it was first taken out. But this 
in itself does not mean that the account was mis-sold in the first instance.  Overall,  I do not 
believe that this account was mis-sold and therefore I cannot recommend that the account 
fees should be refunded.
I note that Mrs W has said that she has been having issues downgrading her account. But 
she would  need  to, in the first instance, raise this directly with TSB as we are unable to 
consider complaints before a financial business has had a chance to look into matters  and 
respond.
my final decision
my decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of her Select  account
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2714530