K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold her a life cover  policy.
background
Following a meeting  with Phoenix in 2012,  Miss G took out a policy which  provided £175,000  
of life cover  over 15 years and £20,000 of critical  illness cover over 11 years.  Miss G says 
she was told the policy would last until she died, rather  than ending  after 15 years,  so feels it 
was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as she thought  Phoenix  made  the term of the 
policy clear to Miss G and that the policy was suitable for her. Miss G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, and so the case has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Miss G. Ill explain why below.
Miss G says she wanted a policy that would benefit  her son when  she died, so he wouldnt 
have to incur funeral  expenses. And she says she didnt tell the advisor she wanted a policy 
that would  mature  in her mid-50s.
Phoenix has sent us a copy  of a letter sent to Miss G recommending life cover with a term of 
15 years  and critical illness  cover with a term of 11 years. The letter also said Miss G had 
accepted the recommendations,  would be sent the policy details and would  have 30 days to 
cancel the cover if she changed  her mind.
Ive also seen a copy of Miss Gs quotation  summary for the life policy,  which  shows  shed 
chosen life cover with a term of 15 years and critical illness  cover  with a term of 11 years. 
And Ive seen a copy of the key features document for the life cover, which  says it pays  out if 
the person covered dies before the cover end date and should be considered if you want  
cover for a fixed period that ends before your 70th birthday.
Miss G says shes  not sure she was given these documents. But the recommendation letter 
was correctly addressed  and I think its likely  she wouldve  been  given at least some  of the 
documents either with the letter or in the meeting. So based on the evidence  I have, I think 
Phoenix made the term of the cover  clear to Miss G.
Phoenix has also sent us a summary of Miss Gs meeting with its advisor,  which was also 
included in the recommendation letter. This says Miss G wanted  funds to be provided  for her 
son if she died, and that she wanted  cover  until her son was 17 as she felt he wouldnt be 
financially dependent on her after that point. It also says Miss G would like to consider 
protection to cover  against critical illness.
Miss G has said she was in perfect health at the time of the sale,  so wouldnt have wanted  a 
policy that only paid out if she died within 15 years. But Phoenixs summary shows  Miss G 
specifically wanted  cover until her son was 17. The summary is relatively  detailed  so I think 
its likely  its an accurate  representation of what was discussed. And theres no suggestion 
Ref: DRN20928612Miss G disputed  the summary in the recommendation letter. So I think  its likely she did want 
this fixed-term at the time.
The policy couldve  provided a lump sum for her son if Miss G died while  he was still 
financially dependent on her. And it couldve paid off her mortgage if she suffered a critical 
illness and couldnt  work. So I think the policy couldve been  useful  to Miss G.
Miss G has also said there was only a small balance  outstanding on her mortgage at the 
time, so the policy wasnt much use to her. But the advice document says she wanted to 
consider cover for her mortgage payments  in case she was diagnosed with a critical illness. 
And even  a relatively small  outstanding  balance  on a mortgage could be a problem if Miss G 
wasnt earning and couldnt pay it back. So I dont think this means the cover wasnt  suitable 
for her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision by 1 December 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092861