K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that repairs carried out under  his car insurance policy with Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  were unsatisfactory. Hes also unhappy  the courtesy car 
Admiral provided had a weekly  mileage  limit.
background
Mr V made a claim to Admiral after he was involved in a car accident whilst he was on 
holiday abroad.
He had his car assessed before he came home. The engineer provided a report  saying there 
was structural damage  and listed the repairs required.
Mr V drove the car back to the UK. He says Admiral asked him to do so if it were at all 
possible. He thinks  he drove the car in a state which made it illegal to do so in the countries 
he passed through.
Mr V assumed the car would be written off, but Admiral decided it could be repaired and 
asked him to take it to an approved garage.
Mr V was unhappy with the repairs when he first attended to pick up the car. Admiral then 
asked the garage  to do some further work, but Mr V still wasnt  satisfied. 
He tells us there were  a number of issues with the car arising  from the accident which 
werent put right. He also says there are now faults  with the car which  werent evident when 
he took it to the garage.
Mr V had a courtesy car provided by Admiral which he says was smaller than his own and 
not of an equivalent specification. He was also unhappy that Admiral imposed a mileage limit 
of 300 miles per week for the period he had the car.
Mr V complained to Admiral. When they didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Admiral  had done anything wrong.
Mr V disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont have any evidence or information to suggest Mr V told Admiral it would be illegal to 
drive his car home in the state it was in. If he had, I dont think they would have  asked him to 
do so. In any case, Mr V got home safely and without any further  damage to the car.
Mr V may have been  surprised that the car wasnt written  off, but Admiral commissioned an 
independent report  which concluded the car was worth over £5,000 and the value of the 
repairs was £350.  So, its unsurprising the car wasnt written off.
The independent assessor also looked  at the repairs Admirals  approved  garage  carried out.
Ref: DRN28278752In his view, the repairs  to the damage  sustained in the accident were  satisfactory. He also 
thought Admiral has gone further  than they strictly needed to in repairing some  damage 
which was most likely not a result  of the accident. 
He looked at all the repairs Mr V said needed  to be carried out. Where these hadnt been 
completed, he said they were more likely a result of wear and tear rather  than the accident 
or were repairs to elements of the car that had been  significantly  modified.
Mr Vs policy  excludes damage caused by wear and tear. And it says Admiral  will not repair 
or replace modifications unless agreed  by Admiral in advance.
Mr V says he hasnt had the car modified. He bought  it second  hand from a dealer. The 
expert says the car has been modified. We dont  have  any reason to disbelieve him. If Mr V 
wasnt told it was modified when he bought it, he can take that up with the dealer
In the absence of any evidence, information or expert opinion to the contrary, I can only base 
my decision  on the report provided by the independent assessor.  On that basis, Im satisfied 
Admirals approved garage have carried out all the necessary repairs  to Mr Vs car - and 
those repairs are to a satisfactory standard. 
Mr Vs policy  says Admiral dont provide courtesy  cars on a like for like basis  and they will 
be a small  car. So, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable to provide Mr V with the 
courtesy car they did.
Admiral have also said if Mr V had objected to the mileage limitation when they provided the 
car, this could have  been discussed at the time. It seems likely  theyd  have removed the 
limitation if the issue had been raised.
Mr V has provided copies of an email  he sent to Admiral in mid-October 2018. In this, he 
does raise the issue of the mileage limit  although  there are a large number  of other  points 
covered.
It appears Mr Vs car was unavailable to him for around two months. He raised the issue  
about the mileage  limit around three weeks before the end of that period.
Whilst its arguable that Admiral should have taken  action  at that point to remove  or adjust 
the mileage limit, I also have to take into account  that fact that Mr V didnt raise  it at the time 
he got the car or for the first six weeks or so that he used it. 
Bearing that in mind, Im not convinced that the limit was a significant inconvenience to Mr V. 
If it had been, Id expect  hed have  raised it before then.
Ref: DRN28278753my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2827875