K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS)  declined  to help him obtain  a 
refund for a purchase  he made using his credit  card.
background
Mr A says he paid using his credit  card for removal services  by a third party  business that Ill 
call Business A. He says Business A breached the terms hed agreed verbally with it. And 
he says he tried to get a refund of the price  hed paid through NBS, but it declined to help 
him.  
NBS  says Business  As terms and conditions make  clear that if customers cancel on the 
day of removal, they will be charged  up to 100% of the agreed price for the service.  It says 
Mr A explained to an agent  in its disputes  team that Business A told him its terms and 
conditions were on its website. But he said he had no time to go online to view these as he 
was busy with moving house.
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said NBS didnt fully investigate his 
claim before rejecting  it.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
There are two possible ways in which a consumer may be able to get a refund through their 
finance provider  if they believe theres  been a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation by 
the supplier of goods or services.  These  are by initiating a chargeback  request or by making  
a refund under s75 Consumer Credit Act.
There are some differences  in how these two possible methods of obtaining a refund work  
and the circumstances in which they may apply,  but these arent important  here. What  
matters is that the buyer of goods or services  needs to be able to demonstrate theres  been  
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier. 
So, I need to decide whether NBS was reasonable in deciding not to use either  of these 
possible means of giving a refund to Mr A, because it concluded there wasnt  sufficient 
information to indicate a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation by Business A. 
I see Mr A told NBS Business A had agreed  it would arrive  at his house  by 12 noon  and that 
it wouldnt use sub-contractors to do the work.  But he told NBS he later learned that sub-
contractors were being used and that they would arrive by 1pm. So, I see he told NBS he 
phoned Business  A to enquire  about cancelling the contract. Whereas I understand 
Ref: DRN20813972Business A told NBS Mr A phoned  it to cancel the contract at 11.30am,  because  his original 
removal contractors had arrived.
I also see NBS says Mr A explained  to an agent  in its disputes team that when he made the 
booking Business A told him its terms and conditions  were on its website.  But he said he had 
no time to go online to view these as he was busy with moving house.
Business As terms and conditions allowed it to charge the full amount of the agreed  price in 
the event of a booking  being cancelled on the day. I note NBS considered  a suggestion  by 
Mr A that the terms and conditions had been  changed, but I see it couldnt find any other 
information in support  of this argument.
So, taking all of these  circumstances  into account,  Im satisfied NBS properly  investigated  
Mr As claim. And that it was reasonable to conclude there  was insufficient information 
indicating a breach of contract or misrepresentation to justify  the use of either the 
chargeback process  or s75 Consumer Credit  Act to give him a refund of the cancellation fee 
Business A had charged him.
And this means  I cant fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019,
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2081397