K821x#15Complaint
Mr Js unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline 
his claim made on a pet insurance policy.
Background
Mr J took out a series  of annually renewable policies with Red Sands from 2013. His pet 
needed treatment  in October  2018 and Mr J made a claim. Red Sands pointed  to an 
exclusion applying to the policy for claims  with respect to the digestive  system. Mr J asked 
about claiming for an unrelated condition  and Red Sands said it would look to cover  the 
condition, subject to review.
On review, Red Sands decided that the diagnosed  conditions  giardia and lymphoma  fell 
within the scope  of the exclusion  clause  for the digestive system.  It said it wouldnt cover the 
claims. Sadly, Mr Js pet died. 
Mr J accepted Red Sands decision regarding treatment for giardia but complained to us 
about the lymphoma. Our investigator  recommended the complaint be upheld.  She felt the 
cause of the claim wasnt known at the time the investigations took place. She asked Red 
Sands to pay the claim and add interest to the settlement.
Red Sands  didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said the evidence  ultimately 
showed the condition claimed for was intestinal lymphoma and that the investigations and 
treatment were all being  performed  around the digestive system.
The complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our established approach is that, where an insurer wants  to rely on an exclusion clause to 
turn down a claim, its for the insurer to show its fair for it to do so. Its not for the consumer  
to show the clause doesnt apply.
Having considered all the information  with that in mind, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain  why. 
Red Sands  added the following exclusion clause  to Mr Js policy  from the start:
 claims associated with or as a result of the following specific exclusions and/or warranties 
listed below:-
Excludes cover  on all claims with respect to the digestive system  with effect from 
4th March 2013 
Red Sands  points out that Mr Js pets lymphoma was located  in its intestines and so falls 
within the scope  of the above exclusion clause. 
Ref: DRN27172812On reviewing the clinical evidence very carefully, it seems to me that, while the condition 
diagnosed was intestinal lymphoma, this could have occurred anywhere in the body. 
Lymphomas a condition  that can arise in various  parts of the body and it just so happened 
that this lymphoma was located  in the intestines.
From what  Ive seen, theres  nothing  to connect  any previous digestive issues with the 
subsequent lymphoma. And my understanding of lymphoma in general is that its causes are 
unknown.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was fair for Red Sands to rely on the exclusion 
clause to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands  Insurance  
Company (Europe) Limiteds  to deal with Mr Js claim without reference to the relevant 
exclusion clause, and in line with the remaining terms. It should add interest to any 
payments at the simple rate of 8% a year, calculated from the date(s) Mr J paid any relevant 
fees to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2717281