K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains Apfin Ltd (trading as cashasap.co.uk) lent him money he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
Mr O wants Apfin to refund the interest  and charges that he paid on the loans. Mr O wants 
Apfin to remove the loans  from his credit file. 
background
Mr O took out four payday and two instalment loans with Apfin  between  March 2017 and 
February 2018.
Apfin recorded Mr Os monthly  income to vary between £1,400 and £1,600. Each time, Apfin 
asked Mr O about his monthly outgoings  including rent, food,  utilities and regular credit 
repayments. Mr O declared outgoings of between £995 and £1,137.  
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Os complaint be upheld in part. He thought that 
Apfins checks went far enough  before  agreeing loans one to three.  And based on the 
information Mr O gave  to Apfin, it was reasonable to have  agreed  these loans.  
The adjudicator didnt think Apfin  carried out adequate checks  before agreeing loans four to 
six. By now,  the adjudicator thought that Apfin shouldve  carried out a comprehensive check 
of Mr Os finances.
The adjudicator thought  that if Apfin had carried out better checks, it wouldve realised that 
loans four to six werent affordable for Mr O.
The adjudicator asked Apfin  to refund interest and charges and pay interest on the refund. 
He also recommended that Apfin  remove any negative information  about loans four to six 
from Mr Os credit file.
Apfin doesnt agree with this recommendation. It asks why we havent taken account of      
Mr Os wifes income when deciding whether the loans  were affordable.  Apfin says that as a 
number of months had passed between repaying loan four and taking out loan five, loan five 
should be considered as a new chain of lending. Apfin also wanted the adjudicator  to clarify 
the dates of the loans that he was including in his recommendation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Apfin was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to carry  out checks to make  sure Mr O 
could afford  to repay the loan before it lent to him. These checks needed  to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Apfin  had to do.
Ref: DRN26945362loans one to three
It was early on in Mr Os borrowing relationship  with Apfin so there wasnt  any history to 
consider. Mr O asked to borrow £79 and he declared his net monthly income to be £1,400. 
As the repayment  represented a fairly modest proportion  of this income, I think it was 
reasonable to agree  loan one based  on knowing Mr Os income.
Mr O took out loan two the day after he repaid loan one. I think adequate checks shouldve 
included Apfin  asking Mr O about his living costs  and regular financial commitments 
including to make  sure he had enough  money  left to repay loan two in a sustainable way.
Apfin has given us evidence that it asked Mr O for this kind of information. It looks  as though  
Mr O said he had monthly outgoings of under £1,000 leaving him with enough  disposable 
income to be able to afford the repayment  on loan two of £222.
When Mr O asked for loan three,  he was borrowing less than loan two. I think that it was 
reasonable to expect  Apfin to carry out similar checks  to the ones it did before agreeing loan 
two. 
As far as I can see, Mr O declared slightly less monthly outgoings this time. Based on the 
information that Apfin had about him, it looked  as though he could afford  the repayment of 
£73 from his monthly disposable income  of around £425.
loans four to six
Mr O took out loan four a day after he repaid loan three. I think  that the pattern of lending 
shouldve prompted  Apfin to have concerns about whether Mr Os financial situation might 
be worse than he had disclosed. I consider that it was reasonable to expect Apfin  to verify 
the financial information that Mr O gave to make sure that he could  afford to repay the loans 
in a sustainable way. 
Apfin couldve done this in a variety of ways.  As weve got Mr Os own bank statements and 
those of his wife, Ive used these to establish what information its likely that Apfin wouldve 
seen had it carried out the kinds of checks I think were proportionate.
When Mr O took out loan four his salary was less than Apfin recorded. It appears  that Mr O 
had living  costs of just under £450, regular financial commitments of about  £177 and short  
term lending commitments  of £615.  This left Mr O with about £15 of disposable income  not 
enough to afford the repayment of £166.  
For loan five, Mr Os regular  financial commitments had increased by a significant amount. 
Mr Os total outgoings  came to £1,148 against  an income of £1,147, leaving with him with no 
disposable income.
Finally, for loan six, Mr O had under £40 of disposable income left with which Apfin expected  
him to pay monthly  instalments of £99.
I think if Apfin had carried out the level of checks that I think  were proportionate, it wouldve 
discovered Mr O couldnt afford  to repay  loan four onwards  from his normal income. As a 
responsible lender, I dont think Apfin  wouldve agreed to lend. 
Ref: DRN26945363Although there was a gap of over four months between repaying  loan four and taking out 
loan five, I dont  consider  this necessarily meant that Mr O was borrowing money in a 
sustainable way  that is without having  to borrow more to repay the loans. So I think that its 
still fair to consider  loan five as part of the same chain of lending.
Apfin asks why we dont  consider that Mr Os wifes  income was available  to Mr O to make 
his repayments  when he used his income towards  household costs. As far as I can see,     
Mr Os wife didnt have  an income apart from child tax credits.  Mr O would transfer  money to 
his wifes account so that she could pay some  of the bills. 
Im satisfied that Mr O has identified the bill payments that he was responsible  for, including  
all of his short term lending commitments.  Mr O hasnt said that he paid for all of the 
outgoings. I can see that Mr Os wife had a number  of outgoings including her own credit 
commitments. So I cant reasonably say that Mr O had access to money  in his wifes bank 
account to make the credit repayments  that he had solely in his name.
Mr O has lost out as a result so Apfin  should  pay him compensation. To clarify,  this is only in 
relation to loans  four to six, not loan three.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, Apfin  Ltd (trading as 
cashasap.co.uk) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr O paid on loans four to six; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about loans four to six from Mr Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Apfin to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr O a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2694536