K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it declined  to refund him the cost 
of accommodation  he paid for a family  holiday abroad.
background
Mr J and his wife (Mrs J) were due to meet their daughter and son-in-law for a holiday 
abroad in December 2018. 
As well as booking  the flights  and other accommodation, Mr J booked  accommodation for 
him and his wife, their daughter and son-in-law  and their son-in-laws  parents. So Mr J 
booked accommodation  for a total of six people. Mrs J was unfortunately diagnosed with 
cancer and was advised that she wasnt fit to travel. As a result, Mr J had to cancel their 
holiday.
He submitted a claim to UKI for the cost of the cancelled holiday. Mr J sent in the 
documentation requested and the claim was accepted by UKI. The majority of the claim was 
settled but one issue was still in dispute. Mr J claimed the cost of the accommodation  for all 
six members of the party which UKI declined. It said it would only pay for Mr and Mrs Js 
proportion of the cost.
Mr J made  a complaint  to UKI. He said he paid for accommodation for the whole group and 
therefore hes the one whos suffered the financial  loss, not the other  four people in the 
group. UKI said the terms and conditions of the policy  state that cover is only for those 
persons covered under the policy. It believes the claim  has been settled in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and the other travellers  should be able to make a 
claim against their own travel policy for the losses incurred. It accepted however that it 
caused delays  in settling the claim and therefore  paid Mr J £75 in recognition of that.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr J referred the complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and upheld it. He said UKI should pay the remaining  cost of the 
accommodation booked  by Mr J. The investigator explained that Mr J had in fact incurred
100% of the financial  loss and while UKI has said the cost could be recovered by the 
remaining four people from their own insurers, the proportion  of the accommodation  booked  
by Mr J was for the whole group. He also said Mr J had booked  the holiday as a gift to his 
family but even if the holiday wasnt a gift, the other  family  members  would have had to pay
Mr J for their share of the cost. So either way, Mr J has suffered the financial loss and 
therefore the full amount should  be settled by UKI with Mr J.
UKI didnt  agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman  to make  a decision.
So the case has been passed to me.
UKI said it didnt agree  it should pay 100% for the cost of the accommodation to Mr J. It 
confirmed the policy wording was clear  and the exclusion clearly  states  it wont provide 
cover. So, in other words, it would only cover  the insureds portion (Mr and Mrs J, in this 
case) of the trip regardless of who has paid for it.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 June 2019 which said I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN25137632I said there was no dispute  regarding UKI accepting the claim and, for the most part, also 
settling the claim. The key issue  that was in dispute and, that was left for me to decide, was 
whether or not, under the policy terms and conditions,  UKI ought to pay Mr Js claim for the 
entire cost of the accommodation or just Mr and Mrs Js proportion. The point  in contention 
was what represents  their proportion of the costs.
The relevant  policy term says:
7. Your Cover
Part 1  Cover for your journey
A  Cancellation
What you are covered for:
We will cover you up to £5,000 per insured person  for your:
b) Accommodation and travel costs (including  car hire, excursions and activities)
What you are not covered for (exclusions):
In addition to anything mentioned in the General Exclusions,  we will not pay for 
claims which are a result of:
18. The unused  expenses of a person who is not insured under this policy.  If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured  under this policy,  we will only pay your 
proportion of costs  not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the booking.
Based on this, I could  see that the cost of the accommodation was something  Mr J was 
covered for but the term goes on to say what Mr J wouldnt be covered for. By setting out 
this term and using  this wording, UKI specifically  set out that regardless of who actually paid 
for the booking, only the insureds proportion could be claimed. So in Mr Js situation, he 
wasnt able to claim more  than two sixths  of the cost as there  were  six people travelling and 
he and his wife were the only ones insured under  this policy. On that basis,  I thought UKI 
fairly applied  the above term when calculating his claim.
Mr J paid a total of £5,596.14 for the six people travelling. The holiday accommodation 
company refunded him £2,628.94 of that total when  the holiday  was cancelled. UKI then 
paid Mr and Mrs Js proportion (two sixths)  of the accommodation cost - £989.10 - rather  
than the total claim Mr J made of £2,967.20. The outstanding amount left for the other four 
people was £1,978.10 which Mr J was claiming.
Mr J raised the point that none of the other people in the travel  party  could make a claim 
because he was the one who actually paid for the accommodation. I appreciated this but I 
was only looking at whether UKI did anything wrong under Mr Js policy  and in the 
circumstances of this policy. Having done  that, I was satisfied the terms of the policy had 
been applied  fairly and I therefore didnt comment on what might  have happened if someone 
else in his party had insurance cover elsewhere  and tried to make a claim.
While I appreciated the situation Mr J was left with and sympathised with the decision he had 
to take to cancel  the holiday due to Mrs Js diagnosis, I thought the terms of the policy  were  
clear enough. I was satisfied that Mr J wasnt treated unfairly or unreasonably by UKI in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
UKI didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN25137633Mr J responded and said:
He didnt believe the provisional  decision was correct because  I had chosen  to reject the 
complaint based  on the clause - regardless of who has paid for the booking . This clause 
ignores the fact that its part of another sentence If you are travelling  with someone who is 
not insured under this policy, we will only pay your proportion of costs not theirs, regardless 
of who has paid for the booking.
Mr J has also said theres a dependent  clause  within that sentence which  says:
if youre travelling with someone who is not insured under the policy.
Hes provided a definition  of travelling as follows below and has said that such a meaning 
is more logical as travelling by train, ship, bus or, as in this case,  plane  which  is normally  
paid for per person travelling:
travelled, travelling - to go  from one place  to another, as 
by car, train,  plane,  or ship; take a trip; journey.
Mr J says the other people were  due to join them and were  coming  from different 
destinations. They werent travelling together but were only staying together for part of the 
holiday. So he doesnt feel its valid to reject his claim for accommodation based on the 
clause quoted. 
findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Js argument and have considered this carefully. Ive also reviewed the clause. I 
appreciate that by taking out specific words,  clauses and sentences in isolation could 
change the meaning. However, looking at section 7 in its entirety, I still think  the holistic  
interpretation is clear  enough for me to be satisfied that UKI hasnt declined the claim for 
accommodation unfairly or unreasonably. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Js argument,  Im not persuaded to change  my mind from the 
provisional decision I issued. Accommodation  and travel costs are covered but only for those 
people insured on the policy.  But the unused expenses of anyone not insured on the policy 
arent covered  and that is regardless of who has paid for the booking. I think  the term is 
clear enough  and Im satisfied in how its been applied in its entirety  and also looking at it as 
a whole. 
In the circumstances of this complaint,  I dont  think UKI has applied the terms and conditions 
of the policy  inappropriately and I dont think Mr J has been treated unfairly or unreasonably. 
As such,  UKI doesnt need to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Ref: DRN25137634Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2513763