K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains PRA Group (UK) Limited  has incorrectly held information about him and 
used it harass him. 
background
A few years ago this service received a complaint from Mr W about  PRA.  It had incorrectly 
recorded a default against him. He had been wrongly linked to one of its customers it was 
trying to recover a debt from. 
In 2018 Mr W complained to PRA after it started  calling him again. It eventually admitted it 
had failed to completely remove all of his information from the accounts it held for its 
customer. As a result another firm had given it Mr Ws phone number as a potential contact 
for the customer.  PRA accepted it had made a mistake. It said Mr Ws number had now 
been removed  from its system. It said it was no longer recorded as a potential contact for its 
customer. It apologised and offered £50 for the trouble  and upset it had caused. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied  so he came to this service. Our investigator felt the compensation PRA 
offered was fair and reasonable. Mr W didnt accept that. So the complaint was sent to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making PRA pay 
anymore compensation to Mr W or do anything differently. 
Its accepted that PRA failed to fully remove details relating to Mr W. Its accepted that this 
resulted in him being phoned  numerous times. Its also accepted  that he had to complain 
twice for PRA to admit what had happened.
I agree  that being called numerous times  and spending time trying  to sort the matter out was 
an inconvenience. But there isnt enough to make me think it deliberately  harassed him or 
intended to distress him any anyway. Ive considered what  Mr W says about the time hes 
spent sorting this out. And overall I think the amount PRAs  offered to recognise whats  
happened is enough. So Im not going  to make  it pay him any extra.
PRA says its now deleted  the details relating to Mr W. It says he wont  receive any further  
calls from it. So I dont need to tell it to delete any information. 
Mr Ws asked  to be told which firm provided PRA with his number. Hes now been provided 
with that information.  
Ref: DRN29718532my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making PRA Group (UK) Limited pay Mr W any 
additional compensation or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2971853