K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  that Scottish  Widows Limited, trading as Clerical Medical, switched her 
pension pot from with-profits  to a cash fund without  her authorisation when shed told it she 
wished to retire  at a later date. 
background
In late 1992 Ms V opened  a pension  account with Clerical Medical.  It was opened with a 
single lump sum contribution transferred from another  pension account provider and was 
invested entirely in a with-profits fund. 
Around May 2018 Ms V complained to Clerical Medical that in 2014 her pension  had been 
switched to cash without  her knowledge. Ms V said she had been unaware of this until a 
conversation with a staff member at Clerical Medical  in 2018. Ms V had been seeking  to 
transfer her pension to another  provider  and queried  why its value was so low. 
She also complained  that Clerical Medical  hadnt sent her the requested  information  so she 
could manage  her pension. This was a reference to a letter  Ms V sent to Clerical  Medical  in 
late 2013 saying  she wished to change her retirement date from a date in October 2014 to a 
much later date and in the meantime she wished to actively  manage her pension  fund 
online. She asked  for the information she needed  to do this and asked it to contact her if her 
request wasnt clear.  
On 21 May 2018 Clerical  Medical responded to the complaint. It said it had written to her 
prior to her selected retirement date (SRD) of October 2014 detailing options  available to 
her. It said these included  deferring  her pension, which wouldve enabled her to continue  to 
invest in the with-profits  fund. But if it didnt hear from her by her SRD, it would automatically 
switch her to its cash fund  the lowest risk fund. It didnt  hear from her, so it carried out the 
switch and wrote to her to confirm this. 
Clerical Medical said it had responded to her letter sent late 2013 about deferring  her 
pension and managing it online. It said it had written to her in January 2014. It enclosed  
copies of all the letters it said it had sent her. 
On 29 May 2018 Ms V wrote to Clerical Medical saying, among other things, that she hadnt 
received the 2014 statement or the letters Clerical Medical said it had sent. She said had 
she received them,  she wouldnt  have ignored them as it defied common  sense  to invest in 
funds that barely  covered Clerical Medicals  fees. She said she wouldnt proceed with the 
transfer to another pension operator until her complaint was fully resolved. 
On 18 June 2018 Clerical Medical responded, referring her to its earlier correspondence in 
2014 prior to the switch. It also enclosed statements after that year which it said showed  the 
fund she was invested in. It said that she could still transfer her funds to another  provider 
and that this wouldnt affect any financial ombudsman service recommendation. 
In late June 2018 Ms V brought her complaint to our service. She said that had she received 
the 2014 letters from Clerical Medical  she would never have agreed to the transfer of her 
with- profits fund. And even if Clerical Medical  was entitled to ignore her intention to defer 
her retirement past 60 and to transfer  her funds (which she didnt accept) it shouldve 
ensured its actions werent detrimental to her interests.  In her view,  to invest  in the cash fund 
with interest rates as they were, was negligent. 
Ref: DRN26296482Ms V said that shed  always  intended  to invest in the with-profits fund because she knew the 
value of the final bonus, and shed never  agreed  to a transfer out of that fund. So she said 
shed had no reason to check  the composition of her portfolio. Shed concentrated on the 
balance page  of her statements.  In her other  pensions shed seen increases in 2014,  
followed by reductions  in 2015-16 and a significant increase in 2017. That is why she hadnt  
queried the value  until 2018.
Finally, Ms V said that unless Clerical Medical  could produce proof  of posting of the 2014 
letters, the date of closure of her account and the calculation of the final bonus should be the 
date this complaint  is resolved and when  she is ready to transfer her pension. She wouldnt 
go ahead  with the transfer as Clerical Medical had suggested, because that would benefit it, 
and not her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Ms Vs complaint could be upheld.  He said the switch  from 
the with-profits to the cash fund when Ms V reached 60 was in the policy  provisions provided 
to Ms V when she began the pension arrangement. Although Ms V had said she hadnt  
received the 2014 letters  indicating the funds  would be switched unless she told Clerical 
Medical not to do so, he thought on the balance of probabilities  that as the letters were 
correctly addressed at least one of the three letters wouldve been received. And he said 
details of the cash fund appeared on page 2 of the 2015  2017  statements.  
Ms V disagreed with our adjudicators view on her complaint. She said his summary 
assumed a sequence of events that didnt take place. He also failed to deal with Clerical  
Medicals explanation of its decision  to transfer  her pension contained in its letter of 21 May 
2018 and Ms Vs arguments in her letter of 29 June 2018. She asked for a review from an 
ombudsman. 
In January 2019 our adjudicator sent Ms V a copy of the policy provisions relating to her 
policy. He said 3.8 appeared to allow Clerical Medical to automatically  transfer  funds at her 
retirement date. He confirmed that an ombudsman would consider  her complaint. 
Ms V replied, saying she had all the documents  she had received from Clerical  Medical  
since the beginning of her policy and it didnt  include the document hed provided.  Our 
adjudicator asked Ms V to provide a copy of the terms and conditions shed been given, but 
she wasnt able to locate  such  a document. She said that until around May 1994  documents  
relating to the pension were sent through the financial adviser who had suggested she 
transfer her company pension to Clerical Medical. She also said that on 11 January  1992 
contract information was sent which showed a retirement date in January 2015.  Thus  in 
October 2014 Clerical  Medical had encashed  her pension before  her retirement date,  
against her wishes. 
She said it was obvious Clerical Medical hadnt read her 2013  letter or her policy  information 
prior to doing that. She provided statements that she said showed  that the funds held by 
Clerical Medical were to be used  to buy a pension, not to be encashed, as Clerical Medical 
had done. 
Our adjudicator provided Ms V with information  showing  that the retirement date in January 
2015 had been an error that had been corrected. Ms V said shed never received an 
amended document, so in her view the only contract was the one sent in December 1992, 
showing a retirement  date in January 2015.  She didnt accept that the request for 
amendment of the date was made by her broker. 
Ref: DRN26296483my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Ms V feels  very strongly 
that Clerical Medical  wasnt  entitled  to transfer  her pension from the with-profits  fund. Thats  
understandable. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint her, as Im not going to uphold  
her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms V has raised a large number of issues. Ive considered everything she has to say, but 
have concentrated  my decision  on those issues I find to be central to her complaint.
To summarise what Ive set out at more  length  in the background above; the essence of Ms 
Vs complaint is the Clerical Medical transferred her pension pot from a with-profits  fund to a 
cash fund when it knew she didnt  intend  to retire  on the date that it did so. Clerical Medical 
says that it wrote to her giving her options  to defer her retirement before her retirement date. 
Not having heard from her, it did what it had said it would  do, which was transfer her pot to a 
cash fund. 
Ms V says she didnt  receive the letters  sent by Clerical Medical in 2014.  And she says that 
unless Clerical Medical can prove they were sent, I have to accept that they werent.  
Where the evidence is conflicting, I have to decide  on the balance  of probabilities what I 
think is most likely  to have occurred. Ive seen  copies of the letters that Clerical Medical said 
it sent to Ms V in June  and August  2014.  The letters are correctly addressed. They are 
standard letters that I would expect pension schemes to have sent at such times.  And 
although I dont  doubt Ms V when she says she didnt see them,  Im persuaded on balance  
that the letters were  sent. Both letters gave  a retirement date for Ms V in October  2014,  and 
a number of options as to what Ms V could do with her pension  pot and arrangements.  At 
the head of page  2 both letters say that:
If we dont hear from you before your current SRD we will automatically move the value of 
any With-Profits  units into our Cash Fund.  
So when it didnt  hear from Ms V, Clerical Medical did what it said it would do, which is to 
switch her fund. In October  2014 it wrote  to her and her financial adviser to say this and to 
say it had applied  her final bonus and amended  her retirement date to October  2029. 
In my view, clause 3.8 of the policy provisions  provided to us by Clerical Medical also permit 
it to move Ms Vs pension pot from one fund to another.  Among other things, this clause 
provides that for those invested in with-profits funds, where a nomination isnt received from 
a member before the normal retirement date, Clerical Medical can nominate a fund.
I understand Ms V says she didnt  receive  a copy of these  policy  provisions at the time. But 
Ms V has also told us that until some time in 1994  communications about her pension  went 
through her then financial adviser. So I cant agree that just because Ms V doesnt have a 
copy, Clerical Medical didnt provide  it to her adviser. 
Based on the letter  and the policy provisions, Im persuaded that Clerical Medical was 
entitled to switch Ms Vs pension pot from with-profits to a cash fund. 
Ms V says that even if Clerical Medical was entitled  to do this, it shouldnt have, because  it 
was aware from her letter of December  2013  that she intended to retire at a later date. I 
understand why Ms V says this, but I think it was reasonable of Clerical Medical to proceed  
Ref: DRN26296484when it didnt receive a response to its June and August 2014  letters. This is because  it had 
written to Ms V in January  2014  saying it couldnt  do what she had asked at that time and 
that it would  write to her again four or five months  before her retirement date.
Ms V says she didnt  receive a response to her December 2013 letter  at the time. I dont 
doubt that Ms V may not have seen  the response, but Ive no reason  to doubt it was sent.  
And, given  Clerical Medicals  response, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Clerical Medical to have  acted based  on the December  letter  alone. 
Ms V is also unhappy that Clerical Medical switched her pension  pot to a cash  fund that 
didnt even cover her own fees.  She thinks that was negligent. In my view, it was open to 
Clerical Medical to do that. In my experience, it isnt unusual for pension  funds to do that 
when a member hasnt been heard from, to ensure  that capital is preserved. 
Finally, Ms V disputes that under her contract  her retirement date was a date in October 
2014. She wishes to rely on a document sent in December 1992  that showed  a retirement 
date in January  2015. I dont think anything turns on this, as either way Ms V argues Clerical  
Medical wasnt entitled to do what it did. And in any event, Im satisfied that Ms V regarded  
the date in October 2014 as her retirement  date.  This can be seen from the fact that she 
referred to that date as her retirement date in her December  2013 letter.  
Ms V has also made an argument about whether Clerical Medicals actions in switching her 
pot to a cash fund was in breach of her policy conditions, which she understood from 
statements sent to her in the 1990s to prevent  encashment of her policy.  In my view,  what 
this meant  at that time was that Ms V couldnt  withdraw the whole of the policy in cash. It 
doesnt extend to preventing her pension  pot being invested  in a cash fund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2629648