K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms G complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
regular premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
In 1997 Mr H and Ms G took out a PPI policy with their mortgage.  The policy covered both 
Mr H and Ms G for accident,  sickness  and unemployment and would have provided a 
monthly benefit of £350. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr H and Ms G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr H and Ms Gs case. I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy  was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Nationwide gave  any advice  or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr H and Ms Gs needs?
-Did Nationwide give Mr H and Ms G the information they needed to decide  whether to 
take out the policy?
If there were shortcomings  in the way Nationwide  sold the policy, I need to consider whether 
Mr H and Ms G are worse off as a result; that is, whether  they would have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr H and Ms G during a meeting with Nationwide,  when they were  
moving house and needed a new mortgage. Mr H and Ms G say they thought they had to 
have the PPI and also that they didnt need it because they both had employment benefits. 
Nationwide says none of its records show that the PPI was anything other than optional.
Mr H and Ms G have  emphasised that they felt they had a better  chance  of getting the 
mortgage if they bought  PPI. I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr H and 
Ms G and Nationwide when they were discussing the mortgage and PPI. I accept there is a 
possibility Nationwide  said it was a good idea to take out PPI in order  to protect the 
mortgage repayments, but I dont consider that to be incorrect. The records  from the meeting 
show that Mr H and Ms G had a choice  of yes or no to say f they wanted PPI  and the 
yes is ticked.  The mortgage offer sent afterwards  doesnt say Mr H and Ms G have to have 
Ref: DRN20742872the PPI. Overall I cant see anything on the paperwork that suggests that Mr H and Ms G 
had to have the PPI. 
Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr H and Ms G aware that the PPI was optional  and they 
chose to take it. 
I am also satisfied the policy was suitable  given Mr H and Ms Gs circumstances and I say 
this because:
-Both Mr H and Ms G were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
-The policy was split in order to cover both Mr H and Ms G, so it appears they were able 
to tailor the cover to suit them. 
-Both Mr H and Ms G say they would have received some work-related benefits if either 
of them  couldnt  work due to illness or accident.  But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to the occupational benefits and would  do so, it seems,  for longer. Having the 
policy in place would mean Mr H and Ms G could  use their work-related benefits  and 
savings to pay for other  expenses. So I think Mr H and Ms G would have  had some  use 
for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
-Mr H and Ms G werent affected  by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  main  
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions.  As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely Mr H and Ms G needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions 
and limitations. 
-I dont know if Mr H and Ms G were told the cost of the PPI in the meeting. But  even if 
Mr H and Ms G didnt  know  the exact amount  of the premium when they bought the 
policy  I think they might have known  approximately  what  it was. And it was confirmed 
in their mortgage offer Ive seen nothing  to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit 
was insufficient  to meet their total monthly  mortgage  repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Mr H and Ms G about  the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been. As Ive already said Mr H and Ms G werent affected by any 
of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it 
unlikely Mr H and Ms G would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall,  I think they would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H and Ms G 
to let me know whether they accept or reject  my decision before  28 June 2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2074287