K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs M says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she had no idea PPI was on the account and thinks  it was added without her 
knowledge. Tesco has given  me a copy of the signed credit  agreement from the time of the 
sale. In this, there was a separate section for PPI that said for cover, tick this box. Mrs M 
ticked the box and in my opinion,  I think  it was clear it couldve been  left blank if she didnt  
want the policy. So, on balance, I think Tesco  made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs M had 6 months of sick pay at the time and no savings. The policy couldve covered her 
for up to 12 months if she was too ill to work,  had an accident or was made  redundant. And 
that wouldve  been in addition to her sick pay. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Mrs M has also mentioned that she had a separate policy similar  to PPI at the time. But 
when we asked  for more  information about this, she didnt get back  to us. I note that Mrs M 
listed an incorrect employer when she mentioned the separate  policy, so its not clear  if it 
was actually available to her at the time of the sale. On balance, theres not enough for me 
to agree this separate policy wouldve made Mrs M change her mind about taking the PPI. 
This means  Tesco doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN27640502To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2764050