K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1990. Although Santander cant  find any record  of a mortgage for 
Mr W on their systems,  it appears the policy was sold to protect mortgage payments. Given 
the time elapsed since the sale, it is not clear  whether the PPI was sold at the same  time as 
taking out a mortgage or some time after. Mr W applied for the PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  Santander  do not have  evidence of the exact cost and benefit 
of the policy  at the time of the sale but have  said that in 1993 the cost was £12. So it is 
unlikely to have  been more than that in 1990. The benefit of the policy  is likely  to have been 
£100 per £6 in cost.  So based  on this I have assumed  that the policy  offered  to repay around 
£200 a month towards Mr Ws mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as an electrician. In his PPI questionnaire which has the 
date of the sale as 2002,  Mr W stated  that he had been employed as an electrician for three  
years but was not entitled to any sick pay. Subsequently Mr W has told us through his 
representative that in 1990 he was employed  as an electrician for five years and was entitled 
to 12 months full sick pay. However,  both the PPI questionnaire  and the subsequent 
information note the same employer. So its not clear to me what  Mr Ws sick pay entitlement  
actually was, if any. However,  he has told us he had savings of more  than 12 months that he 
could use to meet the repayments.  He hasnt mentioned any redundancy pay entitlement.   
Mr W has said he didnt  have any health  problems at the time of the sale. Although this was 
mentioned in the PPI questionnaire with the incorrect date of sale (2002),  he has not since 
mentioned any medical conditions  he suffered from in 1990.
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  is unlikely to have 
been running in April 2008.  
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr W about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN27725842The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
I note what Mr W has said about commission. However, Im satisfied that the credit  
agreement itself concluded before April 2008. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN27725843Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking   
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN27725844-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Given the length of time since the sale, Santander  understandably no longer has the 
documents from the time of the sale to show us how PPI was presented. However, it says it 
was never  a requirement for consumers to take PPI to be approved for a mortgage. From my 
understanding of the sales process, Mr W would have had to complete a separate  
application form and direct debit mandate if he wanted to take PPI. Mr W hasnt provided 
evidence to show that the policy was presented  as compulsory.  And I havent seen any 
evidence which would  lead me to conclude  that Mr W was pressured into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it provided advice during this sale. Mr W is silent on this point in his PPI 
questionnaire. However, given that the PPI was sold in connection with a mortgage  and 
Santander accepts  it provided advice to Mr W, I think its more likely that this was an advised  
sale.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W. It seems  Mr W cant remember clearly what happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ws 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr W would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr W had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr W given his circumstances.  So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN27725845-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ws ability to continue to 
meet his mortgage  repayments would have been  put under strain  if Mr W was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay and savings 
he says he would  have been  entitled  to. The policy would have paid out for up to 36 
months if he was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if he became 
unemployed. I note what Mr W has told us about his savings, however, these  could 
not be guaranteed to have been available when the need arose. If they were 
available, Mr W could have used these  to meet his essential living  expenses  while  
the PPI took care of the mortgage  repayments.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr W be disabled or unemployed 
for 60 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 36 months  for disability and 12 months for unemployment  
for each claim), the policy  still provided  valuable cover given:
Mr Ws circumstances, including his employers sickness provisions (which  he 
might expect  to provide  an income during the policys 60-day qualification 
period) and the limits to those  provisions, which mean the policy  could play an 
important role after those  provisions  were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr W be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr W would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN27725846But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr W agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr W all of the information  he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
Ref: DRN27725847properly, Mr W would  have acted differently, or whether he would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr W knew he would have to pay something  
for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander  told him the exact premium at the point Mr W 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mr W would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and he paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr W would have found the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr W would get back  in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ws expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr W had sought 
advice for in the 2 years immediately before the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job or a similar  job which his knowledge  or training reasonably  qualified  
him to do;
Ref: DRN27725848The policy protected payments for up to 36 months for disability and 12 months for 
unemployment, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr W was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr W wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr W was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr W that any claim he made would be limited  to a 36 month  
period for disability  and a 12 month period for unemployment. This may have differed from 
what he expected  and might have hoped  for  but this was a longer period than Mr W would 
have received full sick pay for and his statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly 
less than 36 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr W would  still have  thought a policy that paid up 
to 36 monthly mortgage payments for disability and 12 months for unemployment, would 
have been of benefit to him and would help him manage the consequences should  Mr W be 
unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple 
claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and 
ensure his home was not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr Ws sick pay 
and savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr W was made redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN27725849Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would  put 
him in a better  position  than he would  have been  in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr W, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1990 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr W and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN277258410reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2772584