K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited  has refused to refund  a disputed 
transaction of £180. 
background
On 19 February 2019, Mr Ls account showed  that £180 was withdrawn, in cash, from a 
cash machine. 
On 5 March, Mr L told J.P. Morgan  he didnt withdraw this money. He said his friends, who 
were staying at his property at the time, must  have  withdrawn this money without his 
knowledge. Mr L explained they were  able to withdraw the funds because  they had access  
to both his card and personal identification number (PIN)  because  he kept them  together  
on the mantelpiece.  He believes  they took the card and withdrew  the money while  he was 
asleep; returning the card before he noticed  it had gone. Mr L said he only noticed the 
money was missing when  he received his bank  statement.
J.P. Morgan  didnt accept  Mr Ls disputed  transaction claim. It said Mr L was in breach of the 
terms and conditions of his account  because  they state he should keep his card and PIN 
safe, and they shouldnt  be kept together. It said it couldnt be held liable for funds 
withdrawn if he hadnt taken appropriate  steps to ensure  the safety of his account.
Mr L was unhappy  with J.P. Morgans response and so he referred  his complaint to us. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint but she didnt uphold it. Having looked at the 
sequence of events, the circumstances  and the way in which Mr L typically used his account,  
she felt it was more likely than not Mr L authorised the transaction himself.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators  opinion   he didnt  think  the disputed transaction 
followed a similar pattern  to his usual account activity   and he asked for his complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
In short,  J.P. Morgan is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr L says he didnt  make  the cash withdrawal of £180 and is seeking a refund  of that 
amount. So my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or I not I think  Mr L 
authorised the payment. 
Having reviewed Mr Ls transaction history,  Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN were  
used in order for the disputed transaction to take place.  And despite  what Mr L has said, Im 
not persuaded one of his friends made  the transaction. In coming to that view, Ive taken into 
account the following reasons:
J.P. Morgan has provided evidence  to show the cash machine used was one of two 
cash machines Mr L regularly used. It was also a 30 minute walk away,  and there 
Ref: DRN25794762were other cash machines closer to Mr Ls house.   Ive considered the possibility the 
use of one of Mr Ls preferred cash machines  could  be a coincidence.  But coupled 
with the fact there were closer available cash machines, the evidence suggests it 
wasnt a friend of Mr L who made the transaction, especially  as if they had taken his 
card, with the intent of returning it before he noticed it was missing,  theyd have likely  
used a cash machine  much closer to his house.
The transaction, and circumstances around it, followed a pattern that reflects  how Mr 
L generally uses  his account. For example,  I can see on the transaction  history Mr L 
always carries  out a balance enquiry  prior to a withdrawal, on the same  day he 
receives funds into his account   withdrawing  the maximum possible from a cash 
machine, and then withdrawing the remaining balance later on in the day in a bank  
branch. These are the very same steps Mr L went through  around the time of the 
disputed transaction.
Mr L didnt report the disputed transaction for two weeks.  He says this is because  he 
only noticed the funds were  missing when he received his bank statement (which Im 
satisfied was dispatched on 28 February). Yet I can see from the transaction history  
that Mr L carried out a balance  enquiry on 21 February, and made a further  three 
balance enquires  on 1 March. Given the limited funds Mr L generally  had available  to 
him, I think he ought to have  noticed money  was missing from his account on 21 
February (and by 1 March at the very latest) as a result of the balances enquiries. If 
Mr L believed his friends had fraudulently made the transaction, Id have thought hed 
have reported  it sooner  than he did.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr L says that this transaction doesnt  reflect his 
usual account  activity, but he hasnt  provided any explanation around this. He has told us the 
police arrested his two friends for fraud, in relation to this transaction, but he hasnt provided 
any evidence to support  this. 
All in all I dont find Mr Ls testimony to be persuasive or plausible.  Ive taken account of the 
fact Mr L has a brain injury, so Ive also considered Mr L mightve forgotten  withdrawing  the 
funds. That may be the case. But for all the reasons  I have given, I think its more likely Mr L 
made the cash withdrawal  himself  than it was carried out by one of his friends   whether or 
not he now has a recollection of doing  so.
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for J.P. Morgan to refuse a refund  of the disputed 
transaction on the basis it was authorised by Mr L. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint  against  J.P. Morgan Europe Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2579476