K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Health UK Limited  increased the premium  on his private  medical 
insurance policy (PMI) without explaining  why, that they manipulated him into cancelling his 
policy and then refused to reinstate  his cover.
background
Mr O had PMI with Aviva.  In June  2018 he was sent his annual renewal documentation  and 
his premium, which he paid in monthly  instalments,  had increased significantly. He called  
Aviva on 28 June 2018 to query his increased premium.  He was told the premium had 
increased for a number  of reasons including his age and medical  inflation.  But the main 
reason for the increase was that hed lost three levels of his no claims discount (NCD), 
because of the three claims hed made  in the last policy year.  His renewal documentation  set 
out the level of his NCD, for the new policy year,  and his renewal  premium.  And details of 
how the NCD is calculated is set out in Mr Os policy documentation.
During the call Mr O said he couldnt  afford the increased premium  and wanted  to see how 
he could reduce this as much as possible. He was told a full review  of his policy would need 
to be done to see what options were  available. Mr O told Aviva he didnt  have time to do this 
and would call back.
Mr O didnt contact Aviva again until 3 December 2018 when he rang to cancel  his policy. 
During the call he said hed intended  calling  to discuss reducing his premium, but hed spent 
so long on the phone trying to get through to them, hed decided he didnt  want to stay with 
them, hed cancelled  his direct debit and wanted  to cancel his policy.  
Mr O ended the call, so Aviva rang him back to advise him of his cancellation rights. Mr O 
again told them that he now just wanted  to cancel his policy, as he couldnt afford it, and he 
said hed been  told it would take about 45 minutes  to go through  his policy to look at savings 
on his premium, which he hadnt had time to do. He was told it was now too late into his 
renewal to discuss changes to his policy, as this could only be done at renewal. Mr O said 
hed found alternative, cheaper cover  with another insurer  and just wanted to cancel his 
policy. His policy was cancelled from that date and he was advised  he could ask to reinstate 
the policy within 45 days, subject to bringing  his premiums up to date, and at Avivas  
discretion. 
A cancellation letter was sent to Mr O on 13 December  2018. This confirmed Mr O had 45 
days, for his policy to be reinstated. But this was subject to his claims history, underwriters  
approval and any outstanding premiums  being  paid in full.
On 14 December 2018 Mr O emailed Aviva asking  how he went about  reinstating his policy. 
There was a discussion about this between Aviva  and Mr O on 17 December 2018, when he 
was told that as hed had surgery  in June 2018, Avivas underwriters would have to consider 
whether the policy  could  be reinstated.
On 18 December 2018 Mr O was advised  Aviva  were unable to reinstate his policy. A 
complaint was raised as Mr O said when he spoke to Aviva  about reducing his premium, the 
reason for his increased  premium wasnt explained,  hed said he felt he was forced  into 
cancelling his policy, and he wasnt  told he could  only make changes to his policy at 
renewal.
Ref: DRN26085302Aviva didnt uphold  Mr Os complaint. They said the reasons for his premium being 
increased were explained  to him. When hed called  in December 2018, hed said he wanted 
to cancel his policy, and had already cancelled his direct debit. And theyd declined to 
reinstate his policy in line with his cancellation  rights, which hed been  advised of during the 
telephone conversation on 3 December 2018, and which were  confirmed  in Avivas letter of 
13 December 2018.
Mr O then complained to our service.  Our investigator didnt  think Aviva had done anything  
wrong. As Aviva had explained the reason for the increase in his premium  to Mr O. He rung 
them to cancel his policy, having already cancelled the direct  debit  for his monthly payments, 
so he hadnt been mis-led or tricked  into cancelling his policy.  And the decision not to 
reinstate his cover had been made in line with the criteria set out in his cancellation  rights.
Mr O responded to our investigators opinion saying hed had a discussion with Aviva, in 
which he was told, treatment he was about to undergo wouldnt affect his premium.  And he 
was expecting a call from complaints about  his increased premium,  but instead  was called 
by someone to discuss this when  he was clearly driving and distracted.
Our investigator asked  Mr O to confirm  when the conversation about treatment not affecting 
his premium had taken place. Mr O replied that he wasnt sure,  but he thought it was around  
renewal time in 2014 or 2015, when he was having further treatment on his knee. He says 
Aviva told him it was ongoing treatment so it wouldnt affect his NCD.
Our investigation told Mr O that any claims in 2014 or 2015 wouldnt have affected  his 2018 
renewal. She explained that PMI is an annual  renewable insurance. This means youre 
covered for a year and are given the option to renew, and at renewal the policy terms can 
change. And as Mr O had been  able to build up the maximum NCD his policy allowed by 
2017, she thought it likely  he was given the correct advice at the time.  And his complaint was 
about something that had happened  four years later.
She also considered  that Mr O said he was driving  at the time of the cancellation  call. She 
said that in the calls Mr O was very clear that he wanted to cancel his policy. And if it was an 
inconvenient time,  he could  have  asked Aviva to call back. So, she didnt change her opinion 
that Aviva  hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Aviva explained to Mr O the reasons  why his premium had increased  on his 
renewal in June  2018. Mr O wanted  to reduce his premium and it was reasonable that he 
was told a policy review  would be required to see what Aviva could do to achieve this. He 
told Aviva  that he didnt have time to discuss this, and hed call back. Mr O terminated the 
call, saying hed call back the following day. Aviva  didnt  have  the opportunity to assist  him or 
remind him, that changes  to his policy could only be made at renewal. Although this is 
clearly set out in his policy documents. And I dont  think Aviva  did anything  wrong as 
Mr O then continued to make his monthly payments, in line with the renewal premium until 
December 2018.
Ref: DRN26085303There were two calls on 3 December 2018  about  the cancellation of Mr Os policy. During  
both calls he made it clear he wanted  to cancel his policy.  When  Mr O called Aviva he was 
on hold for some time.  By the time he spoke to an advisor he was clearly frustrated by the 
delay. He told the advisor hed wanted  he discuss his premium, but as hed been waiting so 
long he now wanted  to cancel the policy and hed already cancelled his direct  debit. He told 
the advisor Im done with you and ended  the call.
The advisor called Mr O back, which Id have expected them  to do in these circumstances, 
to discuss the cancellation  further. Mr O was told it was too far into his renewal to look at 
changes to his policy. When told this he replied, Thats fine. 
Having listed to these  calls I dont  accept that Mr O was put under any pressure to cancel his 
insurance. Mr O stated  clearly that he wanted  to cancel his policy and he was going  to 
another insurer. His cancellation rights  were explained, including  that he had 45 days to 
come back  to Aviva and ask to reinstate his policy. He was sent a cancellation letter  on 
13 December 2018 which confirmed that reinstatement  was subject to paying any 
outstanding premiums and was at Avivas discretion. So, there was no guarantee given that 
his policy  would be reinstated.
And when  Aviva declined  to reinstate  Mr Os policy this was done in line with the criteria set 
out in his cancellation rights. So, I cant say Aviva did anything  wrong  in declining to reinstate 
Mr Os policy,  as their decision was made in line with the conditions theyd advised  him of.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Os complaint 
against Aviva Health UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608530