K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMF).
background 
In March 2017 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with SMF.  At the point of supply the car was 4 years  old and had covered 63,000  miles.
Miss D experienced  issues  with the car within a few weeks  of the point of supply. She 
returned the car to the dealership but no fault was found.
Miss D experienced  further issues with the engine and complained to SMF in February  2018.  
SMF told Miss D that because  she was outside  the first 6 months she would  need  to provide 
a report to show that the fault was present at the point of supply
Miss D provided an engineers report which said the timing chain was faulty and required 
replacement. SMF looked at the report but said it wasnt prepared to pay for repairs or 
accept Miss Ds request  to reject the car because it felt the issues  were  as a result  of wear  
and tear.
SMF advised Miss D during a call that she could voluntary terminate the agreement  for 
approximately £470 provided that she repaired the car. When  Miss D called back, SMF said 
the information it had provided was incorrect and that the voluntary termination  fee was 
£4,733.30.
Miss D paid for repairs to the car. She also paid to voluntary terminate the agreement. The 
cost of repairs and the termination fee was covered by a third party company with whom  
Miss D has entered  into a new finance  agreement for £7000. 
Miss D wants  her repair costs and the voluntary  termination  fee refunded. She says she 
wouldve rejected  the car if shed been properly advised by SMF.
Our investigator looked at the engineers reports provided by Miss D but felt that it was 
unlikely that she wouldve  been able to pursue  a rejection based  on the reports  as they 
identified faults  which are generally  considered  to be serviceable items requiring 
replacement due to wear and tear. The investigator said that although Miss D decided to 
repair the car based on what  SMF had said to her, it was likely that she wouldve had to pay 
for the repairs in any event.
During the investigation by this service, SMF  made  an offer of £150  for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss D when  it provided the incorrect voluntary termination figure. 
The investigator thought that this offer was fair and reasonable.  
Miss D didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24678262Because SMF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  term 
that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid.
Miss D and SMF disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Ive looked at the engineers reports obtained  by Miss D. These identify  issues with the 
timing chain and the exhaust/gearbox  mount. Although I agree that the report identifies faults 
with the car, I dont  think these faults  were  likely  to have been present at the point of supply. 
I can see that Miss D has covered several thousand  miles  since the point of supply. I dont 
think she would have  been able to do this if the fault with the timing chain, exhaust and 
gearbox mount had been present at the point of supply. 
I think its more  likely, taking into account  the age and mileage of the car, that these faults are 
due to general wear  and tear. Its not unusual for a car of this age and mileage  to require 
repairs of this type. 
On balance I dont  think theres enough  in the engineers  reports to persuade me that these 
are point of supply faults. I dont think SMF has acted unfairly  in refusing to accept a 
rejection.
I appreciate that Miss D was given incorrect information about the voluntary termination  fee. 
But I dont think this has affected the overall  outcome. Ive already explained why I dont 
think Miss D would have  been  able to pursue a rejection. So its likely that she would have 
had to remain in the agreement and pay for the car to be repaired in any event.
Taking everything into account,  I cant conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. But I can see that SMF provided incorrect information about the 
voluntary termination  fee and I think this should be recognised. To that extent I uphold the 
complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Specialist Motor  Finance Limited 
should pay compensation of £150  to Miss D for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Ref: DRN24678263Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467826