K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 1991. At the same time they took out PPI to cover  their 
monthly mortgage repayments. They  paid a monthly premium for the cover.
This policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment and, in the event of a 
successful claim, it would have paid out the relevant  monthly benefit for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they werent told the policy was optional  but that it was a condition 
of the lending that they take out the PPI. Nationwide has told us that PPI was compulsory on 
some on their mortgages where the loan taken  out was for 95% or more of the value of the 
property. Nationwide  wasnt prevented from making PPI a condition of applying for the 
mortgage  as long as it made this clear  to Mr and Mrs S. It would then be up to 
Mr and Mrs S to decide if they wanted to accept  that offer,  including  taking out PPI, or 
explore getting  a different  mortgage with someone  else, without the PPI, if they wanted.
From what  Nationwide  has told us, Mr and Mrs S were taking out a mortgage which was for 
almost 100%  of the value of the property they were looking  to purchase  so the PPI would 
have been a condition of the mortgage.  And from what Mr and Mrs S have said, Nationwide  
made it clear  that they had to take out the PPI. So if Mr and Mrs S didnt want to take out the 
PPI they could have applied  for a mortgage with another lender or looked to reduce the 
amount of their borrowing.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it didnt  have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But they chose to take out the mortgage knowing they would have to 
take out the PPI  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover  or they felt that it was 
beneficial for them  to have this type of mortgage, regardless of the cover  provided.
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they would 
have been affected by any of the exclusions or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have 
Ref: DRN25892872been useful if something went wrong.  Nationwide no longer has any records  of who was 
covered by the policy but Mrs S has said she thinks it was cover for herself only. And she 
has told us she was entitled to up to 12 months full sick pay if she was too ill to work. But 
this policy  could have  paid out the monthly mortgage repayment for up to 24 months, which  
would have been in addition to, and potentially for longer than her full sick pay. It would also 
have provided  cover  for the same  length of time if she was to lose her job. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
So, when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think the policy has been mis-sold  and 
it follow that Nationwide doesnt need to provide any refund of the premiums  paid.
My final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2589287