K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2003 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided  joint cover to Mr and Mrs S if they couldnt work because of an accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
NatWest has provided a copy of the mortgage  application which was completed at the time.  
This has a separate application  form within it for PPI. I can see that a monthly policy benefit 
of £360 has been entered  and the option  to take accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover has been selected. Both Mr and Mrs S have signed  the PPI application  form to confirm 
these selections.  Theres a place provided at the bottom of the form where Mr and Mrs S 
could have placed their initials if they hadnt wanted the cover and this has been left blank. 
Mr S also signed a Direct Debit  mandate so that the monthly premiums could be collected.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage quotation which  was produced  for Mr and Mrs S. On 
this theres a section  headed Monthly  Payment. In this section the monthly  cost of £18.44 
for the PPI is shown  beside the words Mortgage  Repayments Protector Premium  
(Optional). And I think that Mr and Mrs S would have been likely to ask why PPI cover 
described as optional was shown here if they hadnt consented to taking it.
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs S said that their mortgage application, 
including the separate  section dealing with PPI, was completed by the NatWest  
representative. They said the representative  told them  that taking PPI would help get their 
mortgage and they were  simply asked to sign in the places on the form the representative 
had marked. And they said that they werent  given time during the meeting  to read and 
understand the forms they were signing.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S have  said. And I accept that its possible  that 
the NatWest representative didnt discuss the PPI fully with them and wrongly  misled  them  
into thinking that taking it would help them  get their mortgage. But I also need to bear in 
mind that this sale took place over fifteen years  ago and memories of such meetings do tend 
to fade with time. And Ive noted that Mr and Mrs S didnt seem to be able to recall very 
much about  this sale when they completed  our PPI consumer questionnaire.
Ref: DRN29684932In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that the NatWest 
representative misled  Mr and Mrs S in this way, based solely  on what  they now think 
happened then.  On balance, I think its more likely that it was made clear to them that the 
PPI was optional  and that they actively decided to take it, knowing they could choose not to 
do so. But I can well understand why Mr and Mrs S may not recall this now.
NatWest say that the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs S on a non-advised basis. And from what I 
know of its normal sales practices  at around this time, I think that this is most  likely to have 
been the case. This means  that it didnt  need  to ensure that the policy was suitable  for them,  
given their particular  circumstances at the time.  But it did still need  to give Mr and Mrs S 
enough information for them to decide  if they wanted to take it. From what  Ive seen, I think  
its possible that NatWest  could have given them better information than it did. But I dont 
think better information would have changed their minds about taking the policy.  I say this 
because:
Mr and Mrs S appear to have both been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were entitled to generous sick pay from their employers  and 
also had some savings  they could have  used if one of them wasnt  able to work because 
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment.  But this policy would have paid out in addition 
to any other means they might have  had. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  
 where ones home is potentially  at risk if the monthly repayment cant  be met. So I still 
think they would have valued  the extra security which  the policy gave them  if things went  
wrong.
Ive no reason to think that the monthly cost of the policy of £18.43 was unaffordable  for 
Mr and Mrs S. And as the premiums were paid monthly, they could have cancelled it if it 
no longer met their needs.
So in summary,  I dont think that Mr and Mrs S have lost out by anything that NatWest may 
have done wrong  when  it sold them this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2968493