K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of the estate  of Mrs G that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
has asked for the Certificate of Confirmation before it will release funds held in a savings 
account. Mr G also complains  that RBS released  the proceeds  of Mrs Gs savings  account  to 
an unauthorised  third party. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 25 June  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  I 
set out why I thought RBS request to obtain a Certificate of Confirmation was reasonable. I 
invited Mr G and RBS to respond  with any additional comments they wanted  me to take into 
account before I made my final decision.  
RBS responded  and confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr G recently responded and 
said he has been unable  to obtain the certificate  without bank statements and other financial 
information. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but I remain of the view that RBS has dealt with this complaint 
fairly. As I said in my provisional  decision,  RBS did initially release funds from the late 
Mrs Gs account to a third party. But RBS was able to get the money back and is holding the 
late Mrs Gs assets  on behalf  of the estate, while the Certificate of Confirmation is obtained. 
That means there has been  no loss to the estate of Mrs G. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr G advised that he had been  unable to obtain  the 
relevant certificate  because he needs to provide a bank statement and other  financial 
records. I cant give Mr G any advice on the process  of obtaining a Certificate of 
Confirmation. I can only suggest he obtains  legal  advice about the best way forward. 
Mr G also asked where his late mothers money was. RBS has confirmed it has obtained a 
refund from the third party it initially released  funds to and has placed all of the estate  of 
Mrs Gs assets  in a holding account. Once  a Certificate of Confirmation has been  provided, 
RBS has confirmed it will pay the funds  to the relevant person. 
I understand this issue has been  ongoing  for a long time. As Ive said above, I can only 
suggest Mr G obtains  some legal advice relating to his late mothers  estate and how to 
obtain a Certificate  of Confirmation if he hasnt done  so already. 
Im satisfied that RBS  request for a Certificate of Confirmation is reasonable and that it dealt 
with this complaint  fairly. As a result, Im not telling RBS to take any further  action. 
Ref: DRN26623072My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN26623073Copy of Provisional Decision  dated  25 June 2020
Complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of the estate of Mrs G that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS)  has 
asked for the Certificate  of Confirmation before it will release funds held in a savings account. Mr G 
also complains that RBS released the proceeds of Mrs Gs savings account  to an unauthorised third 
party. 
Background
Mrs G had a joint bank  account, a credit card and a savings account  in her sole name when she 
passed away  in June 2017. 
The joint account reverted to the other account holder and didnt form part of Mrs Gs estate. 
In July 2017  a third party  approached RBS and it agreed to release the funds held in the savings 
account to them, after repaying  the outstanding balance on the credit card.  At the time of Mrs Gs 
death, she had £3,176.94 in her savings  account.  RBS used £762.38 to repay the outstanding 
balance on the credit card and transferred £2,414.56 to the third party. 
On 26 October 2017 solicitors instructed by Mr G to act for the estate of Mrs G contacted RBS and 
asked for details of any accounts she held at the time of her death. Over  the following months,  RBS 
corresponded with the solicitors. In July 2018 RBS was able to get the £2,414.56 it had transferred to 
the third party back. RBS asked for a Certificate of Confirmation to be obtained to release  the funds 
held on behalf of the estate  of Mrs G. 
As an executor, Mr G complained about RBSs  actions.  RBS responded on 
17 December 2018 and said it had acted in good  faith when it released funds from Mrs Gs savings 
account to the third party.  RBS explained  that the current account didnt form part of Mrs Gs estate.  
RBS said that Mr G needed to provide a Certificate of Confirmation in order for it to release  the 
remaining funds it holds for the estate of Mrs G. 
Mr G referred the complaint  to our service  and it was passed to an investigator.  They  said we didnt 
have jurisdiction to look at the complaint.  Mr G asked to appeal and the complaint was passed to me 
to make a decision. 
I agreed that as the current account didnt form part of Mrs Gs estate our service couldnt look at a 
complaint about it. But I said that Mrs Gs savings  account did form part of the estate and I was 
satisfied Mr G was acting  as an executor. As a result,  I said we could  look at how RBS had handled 
the savings account  after Mrs G passed  away and its request for the Certificate of Confirmation. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to thank Mr G for his patience while weve  been dealing with this complaint. I previously 
explained why we could only look at the complaint issues relating to how RBS dealt with Mrs Gs 
savings account  after she passed away and its request for the Certificate  of Confirmation. Ill look at 
each issue in turn. 
RBS accepts it released the proceeds of the savings account to someone else in July 2017. But the 
third party told RBS they were authorised  to act on behalf of the estate. They provided  the necessary  
information to RBS to release the funds held in the late Mrs Gs savings account. When  the solicitors 
Mr G instructed to act on behalf of the estate of Mrs G contacted  RBS it took steps to retrieve the 
funds from the third party. 
Ref: DRN26623074I dont think RBS acted unreasonably by initially  releasing  the funds  to the third party. And there 
hasnt been a loss of the estate of Mrs G because RBS was able to retrieve the money. 
RBS has placed the funds in a holding  account  and has confirmed it will release them  to 
Mr G once he provides  a Certificate of Confirmation. I appreciate Ive decided  we can look at this 
complaint without seeing a Certificate of Confirmation. But organisations can set their own rules and 
RBS can decide what documents are required to release funds held on behalf of an estate.  So whilst 
our service has been willing  to look at this complaint on the basis of the information provided  by Mr G 
to show  he has been appointed as an executor, that doesnt mean RBS has to make payment of 
these funds without a Certificate of Confirmation. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G as I can see this situation has gone on for a long time.  But I havent been  
persuaded to uphold  this complaint. Im satisfied RBS was able to retrieve the funds  it released which  
means there hasnt  been  a loss to the estate of Mrs G. Having considered  all the available evidence,  I 
think RBS request for a Certificate of Confirmation is reasonable. As Im satisfied RBS has dealt with 
the estate of Mrs Gs complaint fairly, Im not telling  it to take any further action.  
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2662307