K821x#15Complaint
Miss H complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to her.
Background
Miss H took out 26 instalment loans with Sunny between  November 2015 and August 2017. 
Miss H says that once  she repaid her monthly  instalments on the loans, she had to borrow  
again.
Miss H wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  and charges that she paid.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Hs complaint  be upheld in part. He recommended  
that Sunny remove loans  six onwards  entirely from Miss Hs credit file. The adjudicator also 
recommended that Sunny  refund the interest and charges that Miss H had paid on the 
affected loans.
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that the monthly  repayments  
represented a small percentage of Miss H declared  a monthly income  of £3,200,  meaning  
that all of the loans were  suitable for her.
Sunny said that it took account  of the fact that Miss H was repaying more than one loan at 
the same  time when  assessing affordability. 
As Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation, the complaint has come  to me 
for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN28672932the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss H could sustainably  repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
As Miss H hasnt objected  to the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold  her complaint 
about loans one to five, I wont  say anything further about these and instead will concentrate  
on loans six to 26.
Loans six to 26
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Miss H any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Hs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan six. I say this because the overall  pattern of Miss Hs borrowing suggested that shed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Miss H had taken out in almost seven months and loan five 
was still running. I think this pattern of lending was an indication  that Miss H was struggling 
to manage her finances and might be using the loans to pay for living expenses rather  than 
help with one off or unexpected costs  as this kind of lending was intended  for.
Miss H continued to take new lending that overlapped  with a previous loan - sometimes 
borrowing three times in the same month. So Sunny should have realised that it was more 
likely than not Miss H was reliant  on short  term lending and needed to borrow further  to fill 
the hole repaying  her previous loans  was leaving in her finances.  
Ref: DRN28672933Although the amounts that Miss H borrowed sometime fluctuated,  she often went on to 
borrow more money  within the same  month. For example in April 2017  - Miss H borrowed a 
total of £600 over three separate loans.   So Miss H wasnt  making  any real inroads into what  
she owed Sunny and her indebtedness was being  prolonged. This meant that Miss H had 
been paying large amounts of interest  to, in effect; service a debt to Sunny over a long 
period.
I think that Miss H lost out because Sunny continued  to lend money  from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Hs ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Miss Hs complaint about loans six to 26. As Miss H had the benefit of the 
money lent to her, it seems fair to allow Sunny to apply the refund against the outstanding 
principal balances on loans 25 and 26 if it chooses to.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss H paid on loans six to 26;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loans  25 and 26; 
if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  any outstanding principal balance  on loans 25 
and 26 before paying the remaining balance (if there  is any) to Miss H**
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 26 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 26 should be removed from       
Miss Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends  
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding principal balance, it must  do so after deducting 
tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Sunny of 
its obligation to treat Miss H reasonably and sympathetically in any repayment discussions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN28672934Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019. 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2867293