K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about the service she received from the Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  
One) regarding a credit  card she had with them. There are multiple aspects to her complaint  
which are more particularly set out below.
background
Miss L describes the following problems with her Capital  One credit  card since receiving it;
(a)On a number  of occasions  in June/July 2017 she tried to order a new card,  but was told 
that this wouldnt  be available until she cleared the arrears on her account. She says she 
did this but still didnt receive her new card. She was told this again in September 2018, 
and when she paid the arrears she then received a new card.
(b)She found out that negative markers were put on her credit file in relation to missed  
payments in June  and August.  She explained why she missed those payments, but how 
she had made advance payments to for those months.
(c)Capital One never  offered to set up a direct debit  for her.
(d)She was unable to receive important text messages from Capital One because she was 
working in an area without internet  connection.
(e)Capital One told her they would call Equifax to rectify her credit  file, and how she had 
complained to Equifax asking them to rectify her credit rating  but they would not.
(f)Without consent, Capital One repeatedly performed a CreditWise check on her account.
(g)On multiple occasions,  Capital One authorised payments to an online American  
merchant despite her instruction not to do so and not to exceed her credit limit.
(h)She spent a lot of time on the telephone  to Capital  One attempting to get the complaint 
about her credit  file resolved. 
(i)She has been charged  over limit fees on multiple occasions. 
(j)She was told to complain in writing to Capital Ones  Nottingham  Office in writing  in 
December 2018 but didnt receive  a response.
Capital One responded to Miss L explaining they did not believe they had acted unfairly  and 
setting out their reasons why. Miss L was unhappy  with that response and so an investigator 
from this service looked into the complaint  but didnt think  Capital One had done anything  
wrong. Miss L disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide. My decisions 
are based  on the evidence  in front of me. Where such  evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, I consider what is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances  of the case. What I need  to decide is whether the Capital One acted 
fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Miss L, and looking at the available  evidence,  I think  
we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Ref: DRN28916512(a)There is no evidence showing that Miss L called in June/July 2017 requesting a new 
card. But there is evidence that she requested a new card in September  2018 and 
Capital One acted on it by issuing another card when Miss L had cleared her arrears.  So, 
on the evidence  I cant say Capital One have acted unfairly.
(b)Ive considered the negative credit markers  on Miss Ls file. I know Miss L made advance  
payments but as our investigator  has explained credit card accounts do not work like 
that. Each credit card holder must  manage  their account by making  monthly payments 
as and when required. An advance payment against future  months payments simply is 
not the same as making regular monthly  minimum payments,  and it is not what she 
agreed to do as set out in the terms and conditions. I am satisfied Miss L was given  
adequate and sufficient information when she opened the account which told her what  
she was required to do. I also appreciate this was her first credit card account but that 
doesnt remove the responsibility to manage  the account in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions. As payments were not made  to her account in June and August Capital 
One must report that non payment to the credit reference agencies as that is the factual 
position. 
(c)It is not Capital Ones  responsibility to set up a direct debit. It is the responsibility of each  
customer to ensure payments are made monthly and that was explained to Miss L when 
she opened her account and on her monthly  statements. 
(d)I know Miss L was working in an area which had no internet connection and could not 
receive text messages, but that situation cannot be attributable  to Capital  One. And of 
course as our investigator has said, Miss L would not be in areas where there  was 
internet connection  at some point n each  day where the messages would come through.
(e)The evidence from the Capital Ones call notes  does not show  that they promised to call 
Equifax to get them to amend Miss Ls credit  file. 
(f)Capital One explained that Creditwise checks are an internal credit  file check  and not 
used to check customers accounts;  rather it is used by customers to check their own 
credit scores.  Im satisfied that Capital  One has not acted as Miss L believes they have.
(g)Capital One did allow transactions which took Miss L above her credit  limit but did so 
because they took a commercial decision to allow them. They felt most customers would 
want payments to go through, even if they were close  to their limit, and I think  that is fair. 
I also think each customer has the responsibility for ensuring that they can manage  any 
transactions they have set up and authorised. I can also see that in so far as the 
American merchant was concerned this was an organisation Miss L knew  about and to 
whom she had given  her card details.  I appreciate there  may well have been an error  
which occurred by that merchant but that is not Capital  Ones responsibility so I cant say 
they have acted unfairly.
(h)I know Miss L has spent a considerable amount of time on her complaint, but as Capital 
One has not in my view treated  her unfairly  I cant say that they should compensate her 
for the time she has spent. 
(i)As Miss L did in fact go over her credit  limit, then in accordance with the terms and 
conditions the over limit fees became due and payable as she agreed to them.
(j)Capital One has no record of Miss Ls letter  of complaint. I have no reason to doubt 
Miss L sent it but equally I have no reason to doubt Capital One if they say it was never 
received. So I cant  say Capital One have been  unfair in not responding.
So taking all of the circumstances  into account,  I cant say that Capital One has done 
anything wrong  here. Im not satisfied that Capital One has treated Miss L unfairly, and so 
Im not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN28916513my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe)  
plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2891651