K822xComplaint
Mr H has complained about a hire-purchase agreement that he entered into with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW). Hes said the agreement  was unaffordable  for him 
as he didnt have  a job at the time.  Hes also said that he wasnt  told about  the need  to have 
fully comprehensive  insurance.
Mr H is being assisted  in his complaint by his father Mr H Sr.
Background and my provisional decision of 12 March 2021
In October  2018, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car. The entire 
purchase price of £12,865.00 was funded by a hire-purchase loan from BMW.  The loan had 
an annual percentage rate (APR) of 12.4% and this means  that the total amount of 
£17,071.80 was due to be repaid  in 60 monthly  instalments  of £284.53. 
In March 2019, Mr H Sr, on behalf  of Mr H, complained to BMW. He said the monthly  
payments for the agreement were  affordable  for Mr H as he didnt have a job at the time the 
finance was agreed. While BMW  was looking  into the complaint about the affordability of the 
agreement the car was involved in an accident. BMW terminated the agreement and served 
notice that it would take possession of the vehicle  because Mr H only had third party 
insurance cover and the terms and conditions of the agreement required him to have  fully 
comprehensive cover. Mr H said he wasnt informed of this requirement and this was added 
to his complaint.   
BMW didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that its checks  confirmed that the finance was 
affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. It also said that Mr H had confirmed that he 
answered he had purchased  fully comprehensive  insurance on his demands and needs 
statement and so it didnt  agree Mr H was misled  about the level of insurance cover 
required. Mr H was dissatisfied at BMWs response and referred  the complaint to our 
service.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think the checks  
BMW carried out before providing the finance were reasonable and proportionate.  She also 
thought reasonable and proportionate  checks would have shown Mr H couldnt  afford  to 
make the monthly  payments. But she didnt think that BMW misled Mr H about the level of 
insurance cover required for the vehicle. Overall this led to her concluding that BMW  unfairly 
entered into the hire purchase  agreement  with Mr H and the complaint should  be partially 
upheld. BMW disagreed  with our investigator. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman.
I attach my provisional decision of 12 March  2021,  which forms part of this final decision and 
should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended  to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  I invited both parties  to provide any further  comments they may 
have had, by 26 March 2021,  before I reached  a final decision.
Following this, both BMW  and Mr H responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision, 
which was accepted and also say that they had nothing further to add. It was also brought  to 
my attention that the vehicle was stolen before BMW had a chance to take possession  of it 
from Mr H.
Ref: DRN26210332My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decision. 
In the absence of anything  further to consider from either party, I see no reason to change  
my overall conclusions.
However, it has been brought to my attention that the vehicle was stolen prior to BMW  taking 
possession of it and the insurance  cover Mr H had wasnt enough to make a successful 
claim. Im sorry to learn that the vehicle was stolen.  But Ive already found that BMWs  failure 
to act fairly  and reasonably towards Mr H led to him having the incorrect  level of insurance 
cover in the first place.  
I dont think the vehicle being  stolen  prior to BMW  taking possession  of it changes things in 
that respect.  So while Id expect  Mr H to reasonably  co-operate with any attempts BMW  may 
make to locate and recover the vehicle, in terms of providing details  regarding  the theft and 
the crime reference number etc, Im satisfied that the method of putting things right proposed 
in my provisional decision of 12 March  2021, remains fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  And thats what Im telling BMW to do.
So overall and having carefully considered  everything, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. BMW  
should put things right for Mr H in the way Ive set out below.
Fair compensation  what  BMW needs  to do to put things right  for Mr H
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean BMW  putting  Mr H in the 
position shed  now be in if she hadnt  been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr H 
was given the car in question and in has since been  repossessed. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put   
Mr H back in the position he would be in if he hadnt  been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. Our website sets out the 
main things we consider  when looking at putting  things right in cases  where we conclude  
that a lender did something wrong  in irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaints. 
We typically say the borrower  should  repay  the amount lent and the lender refunds any 
interest, fees and charges the borrower paid.  This is because the borrower will have  had the 
benefit of the credit  they were provided with and its usually the extra  paid over and above 
this  any interest fees and charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. 
So, in this case, this would mean Mr H paying back the £12,850.00 he was originally  lent. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car 
was repossessed soon  after the agreement started and a settlement  on this basis would 
Ref: DRN26210333mean Mr H paying for the full amount lent for a car he had for a few months,  without having it 
at the end. 
Ive therefore  given careful thought  to how else it might  be fair and reasonable to put things 
right for Mr H bearing  in mind he was provided with a hire-purchase  agreement,  rather  than 
cash here. In circumstances where a borrower  was provided with finance  to purchase a car 
they were unable to afford to make  the payments for, its usually appropriate for the car to be 
returned and the agreement ended. Ive already explained that BMW repossessed  the 
vehicle. So clearly  there is no need  for Mr H to now return the car. 
Mr F did have  use of the car for a period  of time.  And I think  that its fair and reasonable for
my award to reflect this. There  isnt an exact formula for working  out fair usage.  But in
deciding whats fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, Ive thought about the amount of 
interest charged on the agreement, Mr Hs usage  of the car and what sort of costs he might 
have incurred to stay mobile if he didnt have this car. 
In doing so, Im mindful that although Mr H didnt have the car all that long theres likely to 
have been a significant depreciation in value. The vehicle  was involved in an accident and 
as Mr H didnt have  comprehensive insurance his policy didnt cover the damage to the car. 
There has been some suggestion  that there  was extensive damage  and an insurance 
company may well have  considered the vehicle a total loss. But its been brought  to my 
attention that the vehicle was stolen before BMW was able to recover  it. Ive seen sufficient 
evidence demonstrating  that the theft was reported to the police but the level of cover  Mr H 
had meant  that he wasnt able to make an insurance  claim. 
Our investigator thought that Mr H repaying  a total amount equivalent to the market value of 
the vehicle around  the time it was involved in the accident fairly reflected his usage as well 
as the reduction  in value during the period he had the vehicle. Ive given careful thought  to 
whether Mr Hs failure to obtain comprehensive insurance, his accident  and the subsequent 
theft of the vehicle, which his insurer failed to pay out for, were new intervening  acts that 
should limit BMWs liability  and increase the amount Mr H needs to pay to cover  his usage. 
In considering this matter  Im mindful that Ive found  BMW acted unfairly or reasonably 
towards Mr H in some other way by failing to adequately explain maintaining comprehensive  
insurance cover was a requirement of the hire purchase agreement. I think  that had BMW 
acted fairly  and reasonably in relation to this matter,  Mr H would have obtained  the correct 
insurance cover and the damage from the accident  and/or  the loss from any theft might have 
been covered,  or he simply wouldnt have bought the vehicle in the first place. 
I say this because  his circumstances might  have prevented him from obtaining 
comprehensive insurance cover on this vehicle at all, or he might have only been  able to 
obtain it on terms he simply wouldnt  have  been  able to accept  Mr H was already paying 
around £250 a month for the third-party insurance  cover he did obtain.
So Im satisfied that Mr H not having  the right level of cover to make  an insurance claim was 
a reasonably foreseeable consequence  of BMWs failure to act fairly and reasonably  towards 
him when  entering  into the hire purchase agreement. As this is the case, I dont think that   
Mr Hs accident, the subsequent  theft of the vehicle and his inability to make an insurance 
claim for these events, because he didnt  have the correct level of cover were new 
intervening acts that should limit BMWs liability here. And I dont think that this should 
increase the amount Mr H pays to reflect his usage.      
Ref: DRN26210334Bearing all of this in mind, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW  to waive  all 
outstanding amounts on Mr Hs balance apart from the £569.06 he was in arrears  by at the 
time the vehicle was repossessed. I do realise that requiring Mr H to repay  this will result in 
him paying a little more for usage than normal. But given everything that has happened  and 
all the circumstances  here, Im satisfied  that this doesnt produce an unfair outcome here.
All of this means  that I find it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Hs case 
for BMW to put things  right in the following  way:
reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Hs account to the £569.06 he was in arrears 
by at the time BMW  took possession of the vehicle;
amend Mr Hs credit file so that the account  reflects the amount owing once BMW  
makes the required adjustments.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 12 March  2021, Im 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. BMW  Financial  Services (GB)  Limited should put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN26210335COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr H has complained about  a hire-purchase agreement that he entered  into with BMW Financial 
Services (GB)  Limited (BMW). Hes said the agreement was unaffordable  for him as he didnt have a 
job at the time. Hes also said that he wasnt told about the need to have fully comprehensive 
insurance.
Mr H is being assisted in his complaint by his father Mr H Sr.
Background
In October 2018, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car. The entire purchase 
price of £12,865.00  was funded by a hire-purchase  loan from BMW. The loan had an annual  
percentage rate (APR)  of 12.4% and this means that the total amount of £17,071.80  was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly  instalments of £284.53.  
In March 2019, Mr H Sr, on behalf of Mr H, complained to BMW.  He said the monthly payments for 
the agreement were affordable for Mr H as he didnt have a job at the time the finance was agreed.  
While BMW was looking  into the complaint about the affordability of the agreement the car was 
involved in an accident. BMW terminated  the agreement and took possession  of the vehicle because  
Mr H only had third party insurance cover and the terms and conditions of the agreement required  him 
to have fully comprehensive  cover. Mr H said he wasnt informed of this requirement and this was 
added to his complaint.  
BMW didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the finance was affordable 
and so it was reasonable  to lend. It also said that Mr H had confirmed that he answered he had 
purchased fully comprehensive insurance on his demands and needs statement  and so it didnt agree 
Mr H was misled  about the level of insurance cover  required. Mr H was dissatisfied at BMWs 
response and referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think the checks  BMW  
carried out before providing the finance were reasonable and proportionate. She also thought 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  would have shown Mr H couldnt afford to make the monthly  
payments. But she didnt think that BMW  misled  Mr H about the level of insurance cover required for 
the vehicle. Overall  this led to her concluding that BMW unfairly entered  into the hire purchase 
agreement with Mr H and the complaint  should be partially upheld.  BMW disagreed with our 
investigator. So the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided from the outset in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance and law, and considering the main reason for Mr Hs 
complaint, I think there are two overarching  questions that I needed to consider in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions are:
Did BMW complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that     Mr H 
would be able to make his repayments in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those  checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
Did BMW act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Ref: DRN26210336If I determine  that BMW  did not act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr H and that he has lost 
out as a result,  Ill go on to consider whats  fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did BMW complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr H would  be able to 
make his repayments  in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place  when  BMW lent to Mr H required it to carry  out a reasonable  assessment of 
whether Mr H could afford to make his repayments in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
Any affordability checks  have to be borrower-focused  so BMW had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In other 
words, it wasnt enough  for BMW to think only about  the likelihood that it would  get its money  back  
without considering the impact of repayment on Mr H himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history,  
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount 
/ type / cost of credit  they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look 
different for different  loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to repay a given 
loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the customer is required to make payments for a longer period); and 
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check should be 
for a given loan application  including  (but not limited  to) any indications of borrower vulnerability, 
any foreseeable changes in future  circumstances, or any substantial time gaps between loans. Ive 
thought about all the relevant factors  in this case.
BMWs checks
BMWs decision not to uphold Mr Hs complaint appears to based  on Mr Hs application being  auto 
accepted. BMW says that factors such as declared employment status, residential  status, age, the 
monthly payment and credit checks all contributed  to the decision to auto-accept  the application. Id 
like to focus on some  of these factors. 
Id like to start with the employment information that BMW had for Mr H. It appears there were  two 
employers listed for Mr H at the time of the application. Both had him listed as a mechanic for different 
companies. The first said hed been with the employer  for 6 months but had been in his occupation for 
4 years. The second  said Mr H had been  in employed as a mechanic  with the same employer for 8 
years. Neither  record  appears to indicate Mr Hs income  was captured. 
Equally, Mr H was only 19 years old at the time and had supplied other information confirming this 
was the case. So I find it highly unlikely that he declared  that hed been in occupation as a mechanic 
since he was 11 or 15. Our investigator  asked BMW for an explanation on these  discrepancies. But it 
Ref: DRN26210337simply says that they didnt  result in Mr H being auto accepted for finance he wouldnt been auto 
accepted for anyway. But given  the importance BMW says employment  details played  in its decision 
to auto accept the application, I consider it fair and reasonable to have expected it to have queried 
this significant discrepancy before proceeding  with this application.   
Ive also thought  about  the reliance BMW appears to have placed  on any credit check carried  out in 
this case.  While a credit check can often provide some useful information  on an individuals  ability to 
maintain payments to previous credit commitments, it was always likely to have been of limited use in 
these circumstances.  I say this because a clean credit file is unlikely  to have said much about Mr H 
bearing in mind he was 19 and so only really able to apply for credit in the year preceding this 
application. So he wouldnt have had a chance to demonstrate the stellar  repayment record BMWs 
auto acceptance appears to suggest he had.  
More importantly  Im unsure what Mr H having no other credit commitments,  in these circumstances, 
could possibly  have  told BMW about Mr Hs ability  to repay just over £17,000.00 at approaching £300 
a month. Mr H might not have had to make payments to existing credit commitments.  But this doesnt  
in itself mean he had the disposable income  to make the repayments to this agreement as and when 
they fell due. BMW almost  presents it as fact that Mr H being a young adult  living with parents  and 
having no existing  credit commitments means the agreement was affordable. But I disagree  and I 
dont understand how it could possibly  have reached this conclusion  notwithstanding the application  
having been  auto accepted  without having any record of Mr Hs monthly income and the 
discrepancies over his employment.
In the absence  of anything else to indicate that BMW took any further steps to ascertain      Mr Hs 
monthly income or regular  expenditure, I find that BMW  did not carry  out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before  reaching the conclusion  the agreement was affordable for Mr H.
Would reasonable  and proportionate  checks more likely than not have  shown that Mr H was able to 
sustainably make  the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say for sure 
what they wouldve shown.  So I need to decide whether it is more  likely  than not that a proportionate 
check would have told BMW  that it was unfair to enter into this agreement  with Mr H. 
Mr H has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for the 
finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show different  things. And just because something 
shows up in the information  Mr H has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks  
BMW mightve  carried  out. But in the absence of anything else from BMW showing what  this 
information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mr Hs financial circumstances were more  likely  than not to have been at 
the time.
Ive seen what  Mr H says about not having been employed at the time of the application. But I think  
that he was. And the information  provided  suggests that he lost his job around the time the agreement  
was terminated. In any event, Mr Hs bank statements  show that he was receiving a monthly  salary of 
around £700.  Its clear  that the monthly payments for the finance alone would have swallowed up a 
significant portion of Mr Hs monthly income. 
BMW would also have been aware that Mr Hs age and the car he was sold meant that hed also be 
faced with a significant outlay for insurance. Although BMW wouldnt have known exactly  how much 
Mr Hs insurance  premium would be, it would have known the insurance group  of the vehicle being 
financed and that it was a condition of the finance agreement to as well as a legal requirement for Mr 
H to ensure the vehicle was insured. And when the running costs of the vehicle are added to the 
finance and insurance costs,  its clear that Mr H didnt  have enough  in funds to meet the cost of this 
vehicle in a sustainable  manner.  
Ref: DRN26210338So in these  circumstances, Im intending to issue a final decision which finds  that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted BMW to the fact that Mr H wasnt able to 
make the payments to this agreement without experiencing financial difficulty  and/or borrowing  
further. And so it follows  that he wasnt in any sort of financial position  to sustainably make the 
repayments to this agreement.     
Did BMW act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some  other way?
Mr H has says he wasnt told it was a requirement of the finance  agreement to have fully 
comprehensive cover. Hes also said he arranged  his insurance cover in the dealership so it (and 
BMW as a result) should have known that he only had third-party insurance  cover. Weve been  able 
to get hold of a recording  of the call Mr H has referred to from his insurer. Ive listened  to it and its the 
clear that call was placed from the dealership. There is clearly someone (likely  to be the person 
selling the vehicle to Mr H) in the background providing  details on the car. But its also clear  that Mr H 
was amending an existing policy, providing  third-party cover,  which he had for his existing vehicle, 
rather than arranging a new policy. 
As a result, there isnt too much of a discussion about  the level of cover. Third-party cover is 
mentioned but only once and fleetingly. In these circumstances, I cant  reasonably conclude the 
salesperson should have realised Mr H was arranging a policy with only third-party cover.  So I dont 
have enough here to reasonably conclude the salesperson  ought reasonably to have  realised Mr H 
had purchased insurance with a level of cover which would lead to him breaching the terms and 
conditions of the hire-purchase agreement.
That said, even though there isnt enough here for me to say that BMWs representative knowingly 
allowed Mr H to breach the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, this isnt the end of 
the matter. I say this because  Im mindful that the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) includes 
provisions regarding  the information a lender (or its agent on its behalf) is required to provide to a 
borrower and how it needs to be presented. 
In October 2018, when  BMW provided  this agreement to Mr H, CONC 4.2.5R said:   
Pre-contractual adequate explanations
(1)Before  making  a regulated credit  agreement the firm must:
(a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation  of the matters referred  to in (2) in 
order to place  the customer in a position  to assess whether the agreement  is adapted to 
the customer's needs and financial situation;
(b) advise the customer:
(i) to consider the information  which is required to be disclosed under  section 55 of 
the CCA; and
(ii) where the information is disclosed in person, that the customer is able to take it 
away;
(c) provide the customer with an opportunity to ask questions about  the agreement; and
(d) advise the customer how to ask the firm for further information and explanation.
[Note: section  55A(1) of CCA]
(2)The matters referred to in (1)(a)  are:
(a)the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
Ref: DRN26210339(b)how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under  the agreement;
(c)the features of the agreement which  may operate in a manner which would  have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer  is unlikely 
to foresee;  [my emphasis]
(d)the principal consequences for the customer arising  from a failure to make payments  
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon  the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of 
the customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default  charges or interest for late or missed  payment or under-
payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect  on future access to or cost of credit ;
(iv) legal  proceedings, including reference to charging orders  (or, in Scotland, 
inhibitions), and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn , that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; 
and
(e)the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement  and how and when 
this right may be exercised.
[Note: section 55A(2) of CCA and paragraph 3.13 of ILG]
(3)The adequate explanation  and advice  in (1) may be given orally or in writing, except  where (4) 
applies.
[Note: section 55A(3) of CCA]
(4)Where the matters in (2)(a), (b) or (e) are given  orally  or to the customer in person, the 
explanation of the matters in (2)(c)  and (d) and the advice required in (1)(b) must  be given 
orally to the customer.
[Note: section 55A(4) of CCA]
BMW is relying  on section  5(b) of the terms and conditions of Mr Hs agreement which said:
you must pay for and maintain comprehensive insurance  cover for the Vehicles full value against all 
insurable risks (including  fire, theft,  damage, loss in transit, seizure and the cost of repatriation if the 
vehicle is taken  outside  the U.K.). You must inform the insurer of our interest in the Vehicle. You must 
produce the policy to us if we request this. 
It has also referred to a Demands and Needs  form completed by the sales advisor during  the 
application process.  On this form the question Do you protect your car with fully comprehensive  
insurance? is asked and a yes is selected in the box next to it. As I understand it, BMW  argues  the 
yes answer to this question  means that it met its obligations in a way that was fair and reasonable.
Ive carefully thought about  what  BMW  has provided. The first thing to say is that it isnt in dispute that 
it was a requirement of the terms and conditions of Mr Hs agreement  for him to have had 
comprehensive insurance. And it also isnt in dispute  that Mr H driving the vehicle without having  
obtained comprehensive insurance  permitted  BMW  to end the agreement  and take possession  of the 
vehicle. But the question I have to consider here is whether BMW  acted fairly and reasonably  by 
meeting its obligation to adequately explain  the need  to purchase comprehensive insurance.
Im mindful here that BMW  knew  that Mr H was only 19 years old. It would also have known the 
insurance group of the vehicle being sold. Im not saying  this means it would  have known  whether Mr 
H could get the comprehensive cover required and on what terms. But I dont think its unfair  to say 
that bearing in mind  what BMW knew, it ought reasonably to have  been apparent  that Mr H might find 
Ref: DRN262103310it more difficult to obtain  the comprehensive  cover required than the average purchaser; and even if 
he was able to get such cover it was likely to be on terms where hed have to pay more. 
Ive also already mentioned  BMWs reliance on Mr Hs clear credit  file and lack of existing 
commitments in terms of his ability to afford the monthly payments. But this also means  BMW will 
have been aware of Mr Hs lack of previous experience  taking out financial products. 
Bearing all of this in mind,  I think BMW ought to have  realised that section 5 and section 7 (which set 
out the consequences of breaching section 5) of the terms and conditions were likely to have been of 
greater significance  to Mr H. And, in my view, in order to act fairly  and reasonably  here, BMW will 
have needed to have  done  more to adequately explain  section 5 given it was a feature of the 
agreement which may have  operated in a way which would have a significant adverse  effect on Mr H, 
which he is unlikely to have  foreseen.  
Ive considered the documentation BMW has referred to and whether it acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr H in this context.  
Section 5 of the terms and conditions is on page 5 of Mr Hs agreement. This is three pages after 
where Mr H was asked to sign to confirm  his acceptance of the terms and conditions.  Im not saying 
that this means the terms and conditions  were unclear. But Ive already explained  how BMW  ought  to 
have realised how important this information was given  what it knew about Mr H. 
So, in these circumstances,  I think BMW ought to have taken greater care to highlight a section which 
it ought  reasonably  to have realised could  have had a significant adverse impact on Mr H, much more  
prominently in order for it to have  provided  an adequate explanation of this matter and for it to have 
acted fairly and reasonably.  And this means that I dont  think BMWs provision of the terms and 
conditions in itself meant that it adequately explained, in a fair and reasonable way, that failing to 
obtain comprehensive insurance  could  lead to it taking possession of the vehicle.  
I dont think that the Demands and Needs form BMW has referred to adds too much here either. Its 
clear that this form was produced and completed with the purpose of assessing Mr Hs suitability for 
any additional  insurance products BMWs agent could sell to him. It wasnt an explanatory  document  
contained any explanations about the hire purchase agreement Mr H was about  to sign and it didnt 
even refer to it at all. 
Equally, while the Demands and Needs form does appear to record that Mr H answered yes to the do 
you protect your car with fully comprehensive  insurance ? question, its not entirely clear  whether  Mr H 
is being  asked about the level of cover he usually purchases,  or the cover he will purchase for the 
vehicle hes being sold. In any event, what is clear  is that this document  doesnt state purchasing  
comprehensive insurance is a condition  of the hire purchase agreement  Mr H is entering in to, or 
explain the implications if he fails to do this. 
Furthermore, BMW provided all of this documentation  to Mr H in person. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for BMWs agent  to have  told Mr H about the need to purchase comprehensive insurance  
cover. I havent seen  anything to suggest that BMW  provided     Mr H with an oral explanation of 
section 5(2), which Ive already explained why, in my view, was a feature of the agreement which may 
have operated in a manner which would have a significant  adverse effect on Mr H in a way which 
he was unlikely to foresee. And BMW hasnt even suggested that such  an oral explanation took place  
either. 
Bearing all of this mind and having considered everything, Im currently intending to find that BMW  
didnt adequately explain,  in a fair and reasonable way, a feature of the agreement  which  may have 
operated in a way which  would have a significant adverse effect on Mr H, which he is unlikely to have 
foreseen. And as this is the case, Im intending to issue a final decision which finds  BMW did act 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way.     
Ref: DRN262103311Conclusions
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 2 of this decision,  
Im intending  to issue a final decision which  finds that:
BMW didnt complete  reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H to satisfy  itself that he 
was able to make  the payments to this agreement; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would  more likely than not have shown Mr H was 
unable to sustainably make the repayments to this hire purchase agreement;
BMW did act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way towards Mr H; 
The above findings leave me intending to reach the overall conclusion that BMW unfairly and 
unreasonably entered into this hire purchase agreement with Mr H.
Did Mr H lose out as a result  of BMWs shortcomings?
Ive considered whether  Mr H suffered  adverse  consequences  as a result of BMW  unfairly entering 
into this hire purchase agreement with him. The agreement  was terminated in April 2019 and BMW  
took possession of the vehicle at this point. Given Mr H will have made payments, still had an amount  
owing and was left without  a vehicle  as a result of the vehicle  being repossessed - I think  Mr H lost 
out.
So overall and having thought about everything provided and whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case, I find that Mr H lost out because  BMW  unfairly entered into a hire 
purchase agreement, which it ought to have realised  was unaffordable for him, with him. And this 
means I think that BMW  needs to put things right.
Fair compensation   what I think BMW needs to do to put things right  for Mr H
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a business  has 
done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is reasonably practicable   to 
put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong  hadnt taken place. In essence, in 
this case,  this would mean BMW putting Mr H in the position shed now be in if she hadnt been sold 
the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr H was given 
the car in question and in has since been  repossessed.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant undo  
whats already  been done. And its simply not possible to put   Mr H back in the position  he would be 
in if he hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about  some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. Our website sets out the main  
things we consider when looking  at putting things right in cases  where we conclude that a lender did 
something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable lending  complaints. 
We typically say the borrower should repay the amount lent and the lender refunds any interest, fees 
and charges the borrower paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit 
they were provided with and its usually the extra  paid over and above  this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. 
So, in this case, this would mean Mr H paying back the £12,850.00 he was originally lent. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car was 
repossessed soon after the agreement started and a settlement on this basis would mean Mr H 
paying for the full amount  lent for a car he had for a few months, without having it at the end. 
Ref: DRN262103312Ive therefore given careful  thought to how else it might be fair and reasonable to put things right for 
Mr H bearing in mind  he was provided with a hire-purchase agreement, rather  than cash  here. In 
circumstances where a borrower was provided with finance to purchase a car they were unable to 
afford to make the payments for, its usually appropriate  for the car to be returned and the agreement 
ended. Ive already explained that BMW repossessed  the vehicle. So clearly there is no need for Mr H 
to now return the car. 
Mr F did have  use of the car for a period of time. And I think that its fair and reasonable for
my award to reflect this. There  isnt an exact formula for working out fair usage. But in
deciding whats fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, Ive thought  about the amount of interest 
charged on the agreement, Mr Hs usage of the car and what sort of costs he might  have incurred to 
stay mobile if he didnt  have this car. 
In doing so, Im mindful that although Mr H didnt  have  the car all that long theres likely  to have been 
a significant depreciation  in value. The vehicle was involved in an accident and as Mr H didnt have 
comprehensive insurance his policy  didnt  cover the damage to the car. There  has been some  
suggestion that there was extensive damage and an insurance company may well have considered 
the vehicle a total loss. But this hasnt been confirmed and I understand that BMW  took possession of 
the vehicle.
Our investigator thought that Mr H repaying  a total amount equivalent to the market value  of the 
vehicle around the time it was involved  in the accident fairly reflected his usage as well as the 
reduction in value during the period he had the vehicle.  Ive given careful thought  to whether  Mr Hs 
accident and his failure to obtain comprehensive  insurance which meant his insurer  failed to pay out, 
were new intervening acts that should limit BMWs liability and increase the amount Mr H needs to 
pay to cover his usage. 
In considering this matter  Im mindful that Ive found  BMW acted unfairly or reasonably  towards  Mr H 
in some other way by failing to adequately explain  maintaining comprehensive  insurance cover was a 
requirement of the hire purchase agreement.  I think  that had BMW acted fairly  and reasonably  in 
relation to this matter,  Mr H would have obtained the correct insurance  cover and the damage from 
the accident might have  been covered,  or he simply  wouldnt have bought the vehicle  in the first 
place. I say this because  his circumstances might have prevented him from obtaining comprehensive  
insurance cover on this vehicle at all, or he might have only be able to obtain it on terms he simply  
wouldnt have been able to accept  Mr H paid around £250 a month for the third-party  insurance  
cover he did obtain.
So Im satisfied that Mr H not having the right level of cover  to make an insurance claim  was a 
reasonably foreseeable  consequence of BMWs  failure  to act fairly and reasonably towards  him when 
entering into the hire purchase agreement. As this is the case, I dont think that   Mr Hs accident and 
his inability to make  an insurance claim  because he didnt have  the correct  level of cover were new 
intervening acts that should  limit BMWs  liability  here and should increase the amount Mr H pays to 
reflect his usage.     
Bearing all of this in mind,  I think that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW  to waive  all outstanding  
amounts on Mr Hs balance apart  from the £569.06 he was in arrears by at the time the vehicle was 
repossessed. I do realise that requiring Mr H to repay  this will result in him paying  a little more for 
usage than normal. But given everything that has happened  and all the circumstances here, I dont 
think that this produces  an unfair outcome.
Ref: DRN262103313Mr Hs credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse  information recorded on a consumers 
credit file as a result of the interest and charges on any credit they shouldnt have been given. But Im 
mindful that Mr H will be left with an outstanding balance  once all adjustments  have been made and I 
think that his credit file show this.
So, at this stage and having carefully thought about everything, Im intending to say that BMW should 
amend Mr Hs credit file to reflect  the amount that will now be owing once all adjustments have been 
made to his account. 
All of this means Im intending to issue a final decision telling BMW that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  to put things right in the following way:
reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Hs account to the £569.06 he was in arrears  by at the 
time BMW took possession of the vehicle;
amend Mr Hs credit file so that the account reflects the amount owing  once BMW makes  the 
required adjustments.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB)  Limited that it needs to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 26 March 2021 change my mind, thats what Ill tell 
BMW to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2621033