K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Europ  Assistance  S.A. declined  a claim made on their travel  
insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M had an annual  travel  insurance  policy which  started in June 2018  (the policy). 
They were  due to fly abroad with their family  on 20 December 2018 from Gatwick  airport. 
However, their flight was delayed until 24 December 2018  due to drones being spotted too 
close to the runway.
Mr and Mrs M say they had planned  - and paid for - an activities  package  at their intended 
destination which they had to cancel  due to their flight being  delayed. They made  a claim on 
the policy to cover those  costs.
Europ Assistance declined the claim;  it said the reason for the flight  delay wasnt  covered  
under the policy.  Mr and Mrs M dont  think thats  fair. Unhappy, they complained  to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold their complaint; she didnt  think Europ Assistance had unfairly 
declined the claim. Mr and Mrs M disagree.  Theyve made further points in reply to the 
investigators view and have requested  their complaint be passed to an ombudsman to look 
at everything afresh. So, I need to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Europ Assistance has a responsibility to handle claims promptly  and fairly, and it shouldnt  
reject a claim unreasonably.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M feel frustrated  by being left out of pocket through no 
fault of their own. However,  just because their flight was delayed, it doesnt automatically  
follow that the policy covers them for the losses theyve incurred as a result.
The travel delay section  on the policy explains what is covered under the policy:
If the departure of any international flight  forming  part of a booked  trip and 
specified on your ticket, is delayed as a direct result of strike, industrial action, 
adverse weather  conditions, failure of air traffic control systems, or mechanical 
breakdown of aircraft...
For more than 12 hours beyond the intended  departure time: we will pay you 
up to the amount shown in the Summary of Cover for the first 12 hours your 
departure is delayed  and a further amount shown in the Summary of Cover 
per each  insured  person for each subsequent full 12 hours delay, up to the 
amount shown in the Summary of Cover;  or
Ref: DRN24476052If the delay is for more  than 24 hours  beyond  the intended departure  time on 
the first outbound  flight you can choose  instead to abandon your trip and 
submit a cancellation claim under section 5 Cancellation & Curtailment.
The reason  why Mr and Mrs Ms flight was delayed was due to drones flying too close  to the 
airport runway; it wasnt a direct result of strike,  industrial action, adverse weather 
conditions, or mechanical breakdown of the aeroplane . And in the circumstances, I dont 
think it can reasonably  be interpreted as Mr and Mrs Ms flight being  delayed due to a failure  
of air traffic control systems. 
So, Im satisfied Europ  Assistance  has fairly  and reasonably  concluded that the delay wasnt 
caused by any of the reasons covered under the policy. 
The same section goes  on to set out whats not covered, and delays caused by drone 
activity isnt expressly excluded. As a result, Mr and Mrs M say their claim should be 
covered. I understand the point theyre  making but I disagree. Just because  such  activity  
isnt expressly excluded it doesnt follow that, by default, it is included and should be covered 
under the policy.  I dont  think  its reasonable to suggest that each and every scenario should  
be set out in the exclusions. So, overall,  I dont think Europ Assistance has unfairly declined 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim in the circumstances of this case.
When making this finding, Ive considered  the other  points Mr and Mrs M have made 
including what they say about  this being the first time a drone spotting had caused  major 
disruption - so they wouldnt have thought to check whether travel delays caused by this 
issue was covered under the policy. They also say they took out the policy  thinking  they 
were covered for travel  disruption, so long as they werent responsible for the disruption. 
That may be so, but Im not persuaded those  points mean Europ Assistance has unfairly 
applied the policy terms when declining their claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 
30 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2447605