K821x#15the complaint  
Ms P complains  that J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) provided  her with credit  on a 
catalogue shopping account in an irresponsible manner.
background
Ms P opened a catalogue shopping  account with JDW in November 2014.  When  the account 
was opened she was granted a credit  limit of £150.  Over the following two years her credit 
limit was increased on ten separate occasions  reaching £3,000  by November 2017. At the 
time of making her complaint a balance remained outstanding on her account.  A summary of 
the changes to Ms Ps credit limit is as follows;
DateNew Credit 
Limit 
November 2014 £     150
May 2015 £     300
June 2015 £     500
August  2015 £     700
September 2015 £     750
December 2015 £  1,200
February 2016 £  1,250
May 2016 £  1,500
August  2016 £  2,000
October 2016 £  2,250
November 2017 £  3,000
Ms Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think  it had 
been reasonable for JDW to increase Ms Ps credit limit after,  and including, the increase in 
August 2015.  And she thought that Ms Ps repayment history should  have led JDW to 
suspend Ms Ps account from December 2015. So she asked JDW  to pay Ms P some  
compensation.
JDW didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Ms P accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Ms Ps complaint.
The rules  and regulations throughout JDWs lending relationship with Ms P required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
Ref: DRN25641592what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so JDW  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms P. In practice  this 
meant that JDW had to ensure that making the payments to the credit wouldnt cause Ms P 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words, it wasnt enough  for JDW  to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting  its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Ms P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit  being 
granted. In general, what constitutes a proportionate  affordability  check  will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether JDW did what it needed to before setting Ms Ps 
starting credit limit and offering her the subsequent increases.
Before opening  the account,  JDW  said that it checked Ms Ps financial position using the 
data shown on her credit  file. It says that it monitored this data throughout the time she was 
borrowing. And it says that it regularly  reviewed how she was managing her account with the 
company, both in terms of the amount and frequency of her repayments. I havent seen the 
full results of the credit  checks  that JDW received. But I can see from a copy of the credit file 
that Ms P has given  us that she had defaulted  on a credit card debt around a year earlier.
I think it would have  been proportionate  for JDWs checks to go further than they did. It is 
difficult to establish  whether  repayments  are affordable  without an understanding  of a 
consumers income and normal expenditure. But the initial credit limit, and so the amounts 
Ms P needed to repay,  was relatively small. So I dont  think  it wouldve been proportionate  
for JDW to ask Ms P for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending 
was unsustainable  before initially  opening the credit  account. I dont think  JDW  was wrong to 
initially open  Ms Ps account with a credit  limit of £150.
JDW has told us that it increased Ms Ps credit limit by informing her of the change on her 
monthly statement. But given the time that has passed it is no longer able to give us copies 
Ref: DRN25641593of these statements. So it isnt clear to me whether Ms P was given  a reasonable opportunity  
to consider if she wished  to accept the increase or not. JDW  has said that at any time Ms P 
was able to refuse a credit limit increase, or indeed ask for her limit to be reduced. But even 
if I found that hadnt been made to clear to Ms P I havent seen anything  to suggest she 
would have declined  the increases. It seems that Ms P made use of the increased  credit 
limits and continued to purchase goods  using  her account.
Ms P had been  using her account for around six months when JDW  doubled her credit  limit. 
It made  a further increase the following month.  So by June 2015 Ms Ps credit  limit had 
increased from £150 to £500. I have the same concerns I expressed earlier about the 
checks JDW did before granting these increases to the credit limit. By this time Ms P had 
been required to make six monthly  repayments. And I can see that, with the exception  of the 
first month, she had only made the minimum repayment required. And in fact it appears that 
Ms P missed two of the monthly repayments she had been due to make.  But Ms Ps account 
broadly remained  within the original credit  limit so I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that these two increases shouldnt have been  given either.
In July 2015 Ms Ps outstanding balance increased significantly. And she continued to make  
only the minimum payment that was required.  So I think  that might  have suggested  to JDW  
that she was finding  it difficult to manage her credit  in a sustainable manner. I think  it might 
have been reasonable  at that time for JDW to probe deeper into Ms Ps finances  to establish 
her true financial position.
To help me get an understanding of what Ms Ps finances were like at the time of the next 
increase  in August 2015  Ive looked at copies of her bank statements. Im not suggesting  
that is the exact check that JDW should  have  done.  It may have chosen other  methods  to 
get a better understanding  of Ms Ps financial position. But using her bank statements gives 
me a good  picture of what was going on at the time,  and what  would have been discovered  
by JDW had it done  what I consider to be proportionate checks.
JDW has said that Ms Ps credit  file didnt suggest she was having problems managing her 
credit. It says that it didnt, for example,  show evidence of late or missed payments. But it 
wasnt enough for JDW to consider whether Ms P could  simply  repay any borrowing. It 
needed to establish that she could repay  the borrowing in a sustainable manner   that is 
from income or savings  without having to borrow further.
The information on Ms Ps bank  statements  shows me that she wasnt repaying her credit  
sustainably. Ms P was borrowing from a number of other short term lenders  she was 
taking new loans to help meet both her repayments  on previous lending,  and her day to day 
living costs.  And that it underlined  by her choosing to make only the minimum payments to 
JDW that were required. So I dont think that it was reasonable for JDW to make this, or any 
of the subsequent increases to Ms Ps credit limit.
JDW increased  Ms Ps credit limit again  in September 2015. And then in December 2015 the 
limit was increased by 60% to £1,200. It was now more than ten times  greater  than the 
original limit Ms P had been given  a year before. And whilst those increases were  being 
granted, Ms P continued to make just the minimum repayments on her account. Her balance 
was consistently  increasing, and each  new credit limit simply provided  her with the 
headroom to grow her debt further.
I think by December 2015, when Ms Ps account was a year old, that it was clear she was 
unable to manage her credit sustainably. I think at that point JDW  should have taken steps 
Ref: DRN25641594to restrict the use of Ms Ps account, and discuss a plan to reduce her debt in a sustainable 
manner. JDW didnt do that  it continued to lend increasing amounts to Ms P. 
Further defaults from other credit providers  were added to Ms Ps credit file in October 2015, 
and in March,  June and August 2016.  That should  have been  a further warning to JDW 
about the problems that Ms P was facing. But instead it continued  to increase Ms Ps credit 
limit. Around  March 2018 Ms P found herself  unable to make  even the minimum repayments  
that were required and her account  was defaulted  in October 2018.
So in summary I think that JDWs lending to Ms P was irresponsible.  I think  by August 2015  
JDW should have seen  that further increases to Ms Ps credit limit were unsustainable. And 
I think that by December 2015 it should have taken action to limit Ms Ps use of the account.  
So JDW  needs to put things right. 
putting things right
Given what I have decided above,  JDW should;
Remove any interest due in relation  to changes to Ms Ps credit  limit after,  and 
including, 13 August 2015.  So in effect, from that date JDW should only charge 
interest on the first £500 of any outstanding balance.
Remove all interest and charges (including any delivery fees) added to Ms Ps 
account on or after 3 December  2015.
Recalculate Ms Ps running  account balance taking into consideration the two 
adjustments noted above. Any repayments made by Ms P should be used to reduce 
the outstanding balance.
For any periods where the recalculated balance is in credit, JDW should pay Ms P 
interest on the credit amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum* for the period the 
account remains in credit.
Should a credit  balance remain on the account  at the conclusion  of all the 
adjustments this should be refunded to Ms P together with 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement. If an outstanding 
balance remains I would remind JDW that it should treat Ms P sympathetically when 
seeking to agree  an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any negative  information added to Ms Ps credit file from 3 August 2015 
onwards.
*  HM Revenue & Customs requires JDW to take off tax from this interest.  JDW must give 
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Ms Ps complaint and direct  J D Williams  & 
Company Limited  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Ref: DRN25641595Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2564159