K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  delayed in setting up the changes to his direct debit 
for the premiums for his policies. This led to his payments being  missed  and ReAssure then 
declining to reinstate  his policies.
background
 
Mr M has five whole-of-life policies with ReAssure. He wanted to change the bank account 
details for his direct debit  to pay the premiums,  and sent ReAssure new mandates. 
But, for three  of them, the bank account the direct debit was to come from wasnt Mr Ms  it 
was in the name of two of his family  members.  So ReAssure  said that it needed identification  
for them if they wanted to pay the premiums.   
Mr M sent ReAssure copies of the identification but it needed  original documentation.  There  
was a delay in it letting Mr M know about this which meant that his policy  premiums  went 
unpaid for a number  of months. Mr M wouldve had to complete a declaration of good health  
to reinstate the policies, but ReAssure  agreed to waive this requirement. It paid Mr M £100 
for the inconvenience  hed been  caused.
Mr M sent ReAssure a cheque to cover the total amount of the missed  premiums. But it still 
needed the original identification documents for Mr Ms family members  to set up the direct 
debit. It also let Mr M know  that, because of the amount of time that had passed, it would 
now need him to complete a declaration of good health.
ReAssure received Mr Ms declaration and his family  members  passports in February 2018. 
It wrote to Mr Ms GP to ask for some further information.  But the passports werent returned 
and were presumed lost. ReAssure  made a further  payment of £270 to Mr M to replace  the 
passports and as an apology.
But when Mr Ms GP replied with the requested information, ReAssures underwriters made  
the decision to decline the reinstatement  of his policies. His payment for the missed  
premiums was returned to him, and these policies  were  made  paid-up.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged that ReAssure had caused delays in responding  to Mr M and had lost the 
passports of his family members, but felt the compensation it had paid for this was fair. But 
she said the onus  was on Mr M to make  sure his premiums were paid to keep his policies  
running.
The adjudicator was satisfied that ReAssure explained in clear  terms that the original 
identification documents had to be provided, and these not being sent to ReAssure had 
contributed to the delay in his policies being  reinstated meaning the declaration of good 
health was required. 
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. He is willing to pay the missed  premiums and 
isnt happy that the policies wont be reinstated. He feels ReAssure said one thing and then 
did something else.
Ref: DRN24522972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken into account what Mr M has said and listened to the call recordings of the 
discussions he had with ReAssure.
I do appreciate Mr Ms frustration and confusion  over what  happened.  He was trying to 
change the details on the direct debits to pay his policy  premiums,  and it wouldnt  have  been  
his intention for this to impact on his whole-of-life cover.
And I can see that the service ReAssure has provided has been poor. Initially  there was a 
delay in it letting  Mr M know that the copies of the identification he sent it didnt  meet its 
requirements and that originals were needed. This delay meant that it was a longer period of 
time in which  his policy premiums werent paid.
The terms of Mr Ms policies  say that, after a period of unpaid premiums a policy  may be 
reinstated within three months on the payment of overdue premiums  and evidence of good  
health of the Life Assured  as the Company may require.
ReAssure waived this requirement at that time and paid Mr M £100 to recognise this delay, 
but it still required the original documentation.  It then wrongly  told Mr M he would need to 
complete a declaration of good  health; caused a further delay in responding to Mr M after he 
sent it a cheque for the missed payments; and then lost his family  members passports.
However, I agree with the adjudicator that ReAssure had made it clear that it needed specific  
identification for Mr Ms family members to change  the direct  debit so that they would be 
paying the premiums  for Mr Ms policies. And, although there were delays in its 
communications with Mr M about  this, I think it was the ongoing delay in it receiving  suitable  
identification that meant it then did need Mr M to complete the declaration of good  health, 
despite it waiving  this requirement earlier.
I acknowledge what Mr M has told us about  the changes in his health  over the time since  he 
started these policies. Its because of these that ReAssure has made the decision not to 
reinstate them.  
But I dont think that ReAssure has acted unreasonably in doing  this, when the ongoing 
status of the unpaid premiums was because its requirements for changing the direct  debit in 
the way Mr M wanted hadnt been  met, despite it being made sufficiently clear what he 
needed to provide.
ReAssure has paid Mr M a total of £370  in recognition  of the delays  and as compensation to 
replace the lost passports  and I think thats  fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN24522973my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452297