K821x#15complaint
Mr E and Ms O complain  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc:
Didnt take steps to protect their respective positions when it was aware  or ought  
reasonably to have  been aware  that there was a marital  dispute between them.
Hasnt treated them  fairly when  they experienced financial difficulty
Has unfairly recorded a default on their credit  files.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision,  which  is attached 
and forms part of this decision.
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint. In 
summary, I found:
Its not clear how Mr Es other accounts  really  affected the joint account. While  it was 
reasonable to take the other accounts into account, they didnt really  make any 
difference to the affordability of the joint account  or the ability  of Mr E and Ms O to come  
to an acceptable  arrangement to repay  the overdraft.
Barclays ought reasonably to have known there was a dispute between  Mr E and Ms O 
at the latest in April 2016. It wasnt fair or reasonable  for Barclays  to do nothing once it 
was aware of the dispute. In the circumstances of this case, it should have made sure all 
transaction were  authorised by both parties  and sent any correspondence  to both 
account holders.
Barclays hadnt done enough to communicate  with Ms O in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading  both when it spoke to her and by not sending all of the correspondence  
to her.
It would  have been reasonable for Barclays to have concerns about whether Mr E and 
Ms O were in financial difficulty when the overdraft  exceeded its limit in March 2016.
It was in line with good industry  practice  to obtain details of income and expenditure , but 
there were a number  of shortcomings in the way that Barclays  gathered  and dealt with 
that information that I set out in detail in my provisional decision. While Mr E and Ms O 
must bear some responsibility for the position  they were in and Barclays had acted 
reasonably by giving them breathing space  and agreeing  other arrangements,  it was 
due to Barclays errors that no payment  arrangement was reached.
I agree  that Barclays is obliged  to record true and accurate information about  the 
conduct of Mr E and Ms Os account.  But for the reasons Ive explained above, I think  
the default largely came about  because  of failures by Barclays  to deal with Mr E and 
Ms O in a fair and reasonable way. Im not persuaded  that the default is a true reflection 
of Mr E and Ms Os creditworthiness.
I didnt consider it was fair for Barclays to record a default  against Mr E and Ms O in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint. I considered that Barclays  should remove  the 
Ref: DRN23583902default from Mr E and Ms Os credit file. In this case, there are a number of variables  that 
could have affected how the account  operated. So I think the fairest  outcome  would  be to 
show the joint account as settled in full at the time the account was defaulted.  But I will 
consider the responses from all parties about what should be recorded  on the credit files 
in regard to the joint account once the default is removed.
Barclays should pay Mr E £350  and Ms O £250  for any trouble and upset they suffered 
as a result of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr E and Ms Os representative  responded to say that they had no further comments on the 
facts of the complaint or my analysis and they accepted my provisional  decision. Mr E said 
that he didnt think £600 compensated him for the distress he suffered  but he was 
prepared to accept  the decision.
Barclays didnt accept  my provisional  findings.  It made a number of points, including:
When Ms O asked  for the account  to be changed to a sole account  it would  have been  
unfair to apply restrictions to the account. It wasnt aware of divorce proceedings in 
March 2016. And in any event, if restrictions had been placed on the account,  it wouldnt 
have made any difference as only charges were debited from the account.
It was aware of potential signs of financial  difficulty  and issued letters in March and 
April 2016 alerting the customer  to the accounts position and asking that they contact 
Barclays for support.  
Barclays froze charges and placed  breathing  space holds on the account to help the 
customers. It also managed Mr Es other  accounts and another joint account  within  
limits, preventing adverse data being  recorded across all of the accounts.
Ms O did not make  any offer of payment according to its phone  notes of the calls of 
29 July and 1 September  2016. The second  call took place  after the default expiry date 
and any action could  not prevent the default being  applied.
The account was not brought within the agreed overdraft limit until October 2016. The 
excess on the account was not paid during the period.
The account was terminated and defaulted in line with the termination notice that was 
sent to both Mr E and Ms O on 27 July 2016  and it also set out that information about 
the account would be recorded  with credit reference  agencies.
The defaults were  applied in line with the termination notices. In the call of 6 May 2016 
Mr E says that he doesnt have  the funds  to clear the full balance and requested a 
payment arrangement of £50 a month. That would be insufficient to bring  the account 
balance within its limit. If Mr E were to receive a bonus payments in April 2017, this 
would be outside the twelve months  since the account was passed to Barclays  
collections department.  It wouldnt  ordinarily  take bonus payments into account.
The CRA Guidance says that an overdraft in excess of its limit for at least three 
months with no evidence that the account  is to be brought in order  or no credit recorded 
Ref: DRN23583903for three months are triggers for defaults  and Mr E and Ms O met at least  one of those 
conditions at the time the account  defaulted.
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  guidance  Principles of Reporting Arrears 
and Arrangements  at Credit Reference Agencies  says a default shouldnt  be applied  
where: a payment is made on time that fully meets the terms set out in the default notice; 
an arrangement is reached  with the lender and the arrangement is kept;  if the amount 
outstanding is solely made up of fees and charges, or; if a customer  is deceased. None 
of those things  applied here.
The ICO guidance says that default  should be applied three to six months after the 
account is in arrears, but recognises latitude for some accounts, including current  
accounts. Barclays considers it has given Mr E and Ms O time and opportunity  to bring  
the account in order.   
The terms and conditions of the account only require  information to be submitted to 
credit reference agencies at the point of default.  So it wasnt  accurate to say the 
customers account would  be clear  the account would  not be submitted in any form. 
The account was managed by Barclays collections  team  from March  2016, with 
excesses on the account from February to November 2016  and its collections  process  
would have required excesses to be cleared to prevent the account being transferred to 
Barclays recoveries team. 
Amending the credit file data to show it was settled on the date of default  is inaccurate, 
misleading and not in line with the ICO guidance  or responsible  lending.  The account  
wasnt paid in full until April 2018, which suggests Mr E didnt receive  a bonus in APril 
2017.
Employers will have their own criteria  and levels of credit  checks when making a job 
offer. It is up to each  employer to assess the level of risk of a candidate.
Reviewing account ending 5279 in isolation is not representative of the complainants 
financial positions at the time. Barclays actions prevented the other accounts defaulting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached largely 
the same  outcome as in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
marital dispute
I think it is likely that Barclays would have  known about the marital dispute in April 2016 
when Ms O asked for the account to be switched to sole names. But even if it didnt,  
Barclays phone note of 6 May 2016 records a marital breakdown . It should  clearly have 
acted on that at that point at the latest. It wasnt fair or reasonable to wait until September 
2016.
I accept that the position of this account  hasnt been  affected by not placing a block  on the 
account. Neither party is saying that transactions were made on the account without their 
authorisation. But I still consider that in view of its knowledge of the dispute, Barclays  should 
Ref: DRN23583904have done more to make sure that Ms O understood what was happening with the account  
by sending all correspondence  to both account holders.
While the terms and conditions of the account  might say that it is for the customers to ask for 
the bank to write to both joint account holders,  I think it would be reasonable for Barclays  to 
have told Mr E and Ms O of this requirement once  it was aware of the marital dispute. If it 
had done so, I see no reason why both Mr E and Ms O would not have wanted any 
correspondence to be sent to each  of their addresses.  So if Barclays  had acted fairly it would 
have written to both Mr E and Ms O.  
I can see all the correspondence was sent to Mr E. Im satisfied that Barclays  took 
reasonable steps to make  him aware  of the termination of the account and that included that 
the overdraft limit had been withdrawn  I will deal with the fairness  of that below. 
Barclays has given a copy of a termination notice  that was sent to Ms O at her home 
address on 27 July 2016. That letter sets out that it was terminating its agreement  on 
10 August 2016  and that the full overdrawn balance was repayable by that date. 
In my provisional decision I found  that Barclays didnt communicate clearly with Ms O during 
a phone call on 1 September  2016.  Barclays now says, that it was too late by then to stop a 
default being applied. Even if that is correct,  there  was a missed  opportunity in the July 
phone call to set out that Ms O was jointly and severally liable for the debt on the account 
and that she could provide details of her income  and expenditure so that Barclays  could 
assess if a payment arrangement was appropriate.
default
I accept all of the points that Barclays  makes about its usual procedures  and applying  
those procedures may result in a fair outcome  for many customers. I also note the 
assistance that it gave to Mr E and Ms O. But it doesnt  follow  that Barclays has treated Mr E 
and Ms O fairly  and reasonably in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
I also accept what the ICO guidance  says. I have  taken  that into account in deciding  what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I note it does not say that a 
default must be applied in these circumstances. And in fact, I dont consider it helps Barclays 
here.
Barclays has pointed out that the ICO guidance  says that a default shouldnt  be applied if a 
payment arrangement is reached and that as no payment  arrangement was reached,  it was 
reasonable for it to apply a default. But my point is that I consider in the circumstances of 
this case, Barclays  should  have considered and offered  a payment arrangement  to Mr E and 
Ms O in an effort to treat them fairly  and engage  with them  in a reasonable way, instead of 
just going ahead with the default. 
 
I note the other information provided by Barclays. The steering committee on reciprocity  
Data Quality Reference Guide is dated January  2019. That is after the events Im 
considering here. But even  if I were to take that into account, along with all the other 
guidance, I dont  consider  it follows  that the default was applied  fairly in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because the guide  says that a default may be recorded to show  that the 
relationship has broken  down. First, that does not oblige a lender to record  a default in 
every case,  only that it may do so. There are likely  to be circumstances where it isnt fair. 
Secondly, it suggests the reason for the default  is that the relationship has broken down. 
While there  were some failure by Barclays to engage and communicate in a fair and 
Ref: DRN23583905reasonable way, I consider that Mr E wanted to come to an arrangement.  Based on eth 
information we have was likely to be able to afford  to do so. So the breakdown in the 
relationship was largely one sided  and I think  any failure  of Mr E to engage was down to a 
lack of clear communication from Barclays as I will explain below.
Barclays failed to reach an agreement with Mr E and Ms O before the account defaulted. But 
I dont consider that was largely Mr E or Ms Os fault. Barclays had an overriding obligation 
to communicate  in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading. After  listening to the phone 
calls that Barclays had with Mr E and Ms O, I dont consider that it explained to Mr E and 
Ms O in an appropriately clear way what was happening. Barclays  may have been following 
its procedures, but Mr E and Ms O would not have  been aware of them. I think  it is more 
likely than not that a suitable payment arrangement  could have been reached if Barclays  had 
communicated more  clearly. I say this for largely the same  reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision:
When Mr E spoke  to Barclays on 2 June 2016, the details of his income and expenditure 
were sufficient  for Barclays to agree a payment  arrangement   he had a surplus  of £580 
a month. It wasnt agreed because  Mr E didnt know the exact amount he paid for his 
water bill. Realistically this was never going to have a significant impact on Mr Es 
disposable income (the water bill turned out to be £40 a month). I consider it would have 
been reasonable for Barclays to come  to a payment arrangement at this point. And it 
supports my point  that this wasnt a case where Mr E and Ms O couldnt  afford  a 
payment arrangement  or that they werent  willing to pay  but rather an unfortunate 
breakdown in communication. It doesnt  seem fair to apply  a default in these 
circumstances.
When Mr E spoke  to Barclays on 29 July 2016,  Barclays told him it didnt understand 
why a payment  arrangement wasnt put in place on 2 June and it would definitely  be 
able to put something in place before it defaults.  It was reasonable for Mr E to 
understand from that statement that an arrangement  would  be put in place shortly. If time 
really was of the essence at this point  it would have  been  reasonable for Barclays to set 
out the time constraints  much  more clearly than it did.
The communication in the phone call of 30 August 2016 was poor. There  was confusion 
about the amount Mr E was paying  towards child care,  care for adults, his pension and 
internet/landline. Bearing in mind the importance  of the income  and expenditure figures I 
think Barclays could have done more to ensure that the figures it recorded were  
accurate. After listening to this phone call I am not confident that the figures  gathered 
during this phone  call were correct  or properly reflected Mr Es expenditure. I dont agree 
with Barclays view that this phone call meant  it couldnt agree to a payment  
arrangement.
Even if expenditure was correct (and I am not persuaded it was) there was clearly  room 
for Mr E to budget in a number of areas. If Barclays had done more  to communicate 
clearly and fairly I think it is likely that he could  have reduced his expenditure in a 
number of areas. The objective of the phone calls should have been to arrive at a 
sensible payment  arrangement that was fair to both parties. There should  have been 
some flexibility in the way Barclays dealt with these conversations.
I note the points that Barclays  made  about  Mr Es bonus. It might have been the case  
that it wouldnt have  been acceptable  to Barclays for any number of reasons  although 
Im not sure it will always be fair to apply its policies so rigidly.  But the difficulty is that we 
Ref: DRN23583906dont know if the bonus would have  been  acceptable, because  Barclays  didnt 
adequately explore this point. I think it would have been reasonable to do so, whether it 
materialised or not. As it didnt this adds weight  to my decision that the default came 
about because  Barclays didnt engage with Mr E and Ms O fairly.
On 12 September  2016, Barclays told Mr E it had agreed  a payment arrangement only to 
withdraw it the following day. Mr E was understandably confused by the change in 
approach (and tone) by Barclays  when he spoke  to it on 13 September.  Barclays  said it 
had made a mistake  on 12 September  and it accepted that. But it didnt handle the 
mistake well. In the circumstances, it could have  done  more to set out what Mr E needed  
to do. 
Barclays missed  opportunities to explain the position of the account  fully to Ms O. I 
accept that she ought  reasonably to have  been  aware that the overdraft had been  
withdrawn. But she was led to believe during the last phone call Barclays had with her 
that it was likely that an arrangement could be reached. Barclays now say that in fact, it 
was too late by this point as a default had passed its expiry  date.  If that was the case, it 
would have been reasonable to tell Ms O that during that call. It was wrong to lead her to 
believe that an arrangement with Mr E was imminent.
Bearing in mind Barclays duty to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading, Barclays could have made  clear to her that she remained jointly  and 
severally liable for the debt. Its not clear why Barclays  didnt take steps to attempt to 
obtain details  of her income and expenditure to assess whether she could contribute 
towards a payment arrangement.  It is more likely  than not that if Barclays had asked 
Ms O for this information she would have supplied it. It follows  that it would  have been  
more likely that an acceptable payment arrangement could have been reached.  
Barclays did not have  to rely on Mr Es sole income and expenditure  and the potential 
difficulties it has identified.  It always had the option of approaching Ms O, which it failed 
to do. Considering it had spoken to Ms O and had her contact details, it wouldnt have 
been difficult to go back and speak to her to see if a payment arrangement could  have 
been reached.
If Barclays had acted  fairly and reasonably, I consider that it is likely that it would have  
reached a payment arrangement with Mr E following the conversation of 2 June  2016.  It was 
wrong to rely on the flawed income and expenditure details taken during the phone call of 
30 August 2016.  And if it had given Ms O full information about the account and her liability, 
its more likely than not that she would have  given details of her income  and expenditure, 
making it more likely that an arrangement could be reached to avoid a default.  
I consider that if Barclays had dealt fairly  with Mr E and Ms O it is likely it would have 
reached an arrangement  with them  that prevented the account  being defaulted. Bearing in 
mind the importance  of not having  a default  to Mr E, I think  it is likely that he would have 
maintained the payment arrangement if one had been agreed. I say this as Mr E has given 
evidence that he made  regular  monthly payments to the debt collection agency before 
clearing the debt in full with a lump sum payment. 
Barclays says that the debt wasnt  paid until April 2018 and that suggests that Mr E and 
Ms O couldnt afford to pay back the debt faster than that  so a default would have been 
inevitable in any case. I dont agree. The circumstances were  different once the default  had 
already been applied.  It doesnt follow that Mr E and Ms O couldnt afford to set up a 
Ref: DRN23583907payment arrangement with them. Mr E was engaging with Barclays.  But Barclays  failed to 
gather accurate income  and expenditure details from him. And in the circumstances of this 
case, it also failed  to do enough to ask Ms O for her income and expenditure details.  
I note that Barclays says that its not reasonable to look at this account in isolation and that 
the only way the other accounts  didnt  fall into trouble was because of the steps it took in this 
case. But I cant see why Barclays wouldnt have taken into account any other liabilities Mr E 
and/or Ms O held with it when carrying out income and expenditure exercises. It is difficult to 
see how any of the accounts were  sustainable if the income  and expenditure exercise on 
30 August 2016  was accurate. But Barclays says the other accounts were  operating  within 
agreed limits. It supports my finding that the information gathered on 30 August was likely to 
be flawed. Looking at the information Barclays has given us I dont consider it has shown 
that all of the accounts were unsustainable and that defaulting one was unavoidable.
I agree  that Barclays is obliged to record true and accurate information about  the conduct  of 
Mr E and Ms Os account. But for the reasons  Ive explained above,  I think  the default largely 
came about  because of failures by Barclays to deal with Mr E and Ms O in a fair and 
reasonable way. Im not persuaded that the default  is a true reflection of Mr E and Ms Os 
creditworthiness. 
So I dont  consider it was fair for Barclays  to record a default against  Mr E and Ms O in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint. I consider that Barclays  should  remove  the 
default from Mr E and Ms Os credit file. 
Barclays has told us that it would not have  recorded  anything with credit  reference agencies 
in respect of this account if the account wasnt defaulted. It follows,  that I consider any 
record of this account should be removed  from both Mr E and Ms Os credit files.
putting things  right
Ive reached the same  conclusions I did in my provisional decision. Other than saying that 
Barclays should remove any record of the account  from both Mr E and Ms Os credit files, 
my proposed  redress hasnt changed.  
Ive already found that Barclays didnt properly deal with the marital dispute. While Ms O had 
some information about the account, she didnt know everything that happened. I consider 
this has caused  her some unnecessary worry and inconvenience. And there was some  
avoidable confusion  about what the overdraft limit was and whether it had been withdrawn.
I also think the way that Barclays  dealt with Mr E has caused him trouble and upset. He had 
to provide very detailed information  about  his income and expenditure a number of times. 
That wouldnt have been necessary if Barclays hadnt lost the information he provided  on 
2 June 2016.
Barclays raised Mr Es hopes  by leading him to believe  that a payment arrangement  would 
be agreed in its phone call of 12 September. But when he phoned back  the following day, it 
told him that was a mistake.  I dont consider Barclays handled that with appropriate 
sensitivity and it reasonably should  have  done  more to see if there  was anything else it could 
do to put a mutually acceptable payment arrangement in place.
Both Mr E and Ms O have also suffered stress  and worry  because of the default that has 
been recorded against them. Mr E particularly has had the worry that if he were  to look for a 
Ref: DRN23583908new job in the financial services sector, any prospective employer is likely would carry out a 
credit check  and discover the default.  Ive already found that if Barclays had acted 
reasonably its likely that a default could have been avoided   and that it wasnt  fair for it to 
record a default  in the individual  circumstances of this case.
Barclays passed the debt to a debt collections agency. Ms O has said that she found  the 
contact from this agency stressful. And that would also have been avoided had Barclays 
acted fairly  in the first place. 
Taking all of that into account,  I consider  that Barclays has caused Mr E and Ms O material  
distress and inconvenience. The amount of trouble and upset that Mr E and Ms O have  
suffered will be different. So I think that Barclays should make a payment to each of them. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances  set out above I consider it would be fair for Barclays  to 
pay Mr E £350 and Ms O £250 to reflect the trouble  and upset they have each experienced 
as a result  of this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Remove any record of the joint account  that was defaulted from both Mr E and Ms Os 
credit files. 
Pay Mr E and Ms O £600  for any trouble and upset. The £600  should be divided as 
follows:
opay £350 to Mr E
opay £250 to Ms O
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr E and Ms O complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
Didnt take steps to protect  their respective positions when it was aware  or ought  reasonably to 
have been aware  that there  was a marital dispute between them.
Hasnt treated them fairly when  they experienced  financial difficulty
Has unfairly recorded a default on their credit files.
Ref: DRN23583909background
Mr E and Ms O held a joint bank account with Barclays. The account  had an overdraft  facility.  In 
March 2016, Mr E and Ms O separated and began divorce proceedings. The balance of the joint 
account was over the agreed  overdraft limit. Despite  Mr E speaking  to Barclays to try and address the 
situation, Barclays defaulted  the account  in September.
Mr E and Ms O dont consider that Barclays has treated  them fairly  for a number of reasons, 
including:
It didnt  take any action once it was aware of the marital dispute.
It should have known that Mr E and Ms O lived apart and so should  have written to each of them 
separately.
There was confusion about  what the overdraft  limit was. Mr E says he understood that his 
overdraft was withdrawn  during  the period in question, but Barclays response suggests it wasnt. 
The overdraft was only £300 over the limit and that was easily rectifiable if the bank had 
communicated clearly.
Although Barclays took some steps to find out Mr Es financial circumstances it didnt ask Ms O so 
therefore had an incomplete picture  of the overall  financial position.
Barclays should have done more to propose a solution to address the arrears. It was clear that Mr 
E was keen to avoid  a default and had made payments  to bring the account within the previously 
agreed overdraft limit of £2,500. It was unfair to close the account  and register a default  without 
agreeing an affordable repayment plan.
Barclays defaulted  the account  prematurely.  There was no breakdown in the relationship, Mr E 
and Ms O were in contact with the bank.  Mr E was cooperative and was clear  that he would clear 
the debt when  his circumstances improved. There were payments being made  to the account and 
Barclays had not attempted to put a payment plan in place. 
In addition, Mr E says that he didnt receive  the letters from Barclays about  the account,  that its 
records and recording  of his conversation with it are incomplete and dont match his own records.  He 
says that he was given contradictory information about what was happening. And that the default  will 
have a significant  impact on his ability to find work.
Barclays accepted that it had given  Mr E incorrect information about a temporary  repayment plan. But 
it said it corrected this misunderstanding the following day. It offered Mr E £100 for any trouble  that 
caused. Barclays said it had otherwise followed the correct process, so it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im only looking at Mr E and Ms Os joint account with Barclays  ending in 279. I note that other 
Barclays accounts held by Mr E do come up in discussions  and Barclays says that looking at this 
account in isolation was not a true reflection  of Mr E and Ms Os financial position  at the time.  
But considering the information we do have  about  Mr Es other accounts,  its not clear  how they really 
affect the joint account. While  it was reasonable  to take the other accounts into account,  they didnt 
really make any difference to the affordability of the joint account  or the ability of Mr E and Ms O to 
come to an acceptable arrangement  to repay the overdraft.
Ref: DRN235839010marital dispute
Barclays says that it didnt  record a formal dispute between Mr E and Ms O on its systems  until 13 
September 2016. But it ought reasonably to have known that there was a dispute between  them 
earlier than that. Looking at Barclays own records it appears that it knew of the dispute at the latest in 
April 2016, when Ms O asked for the joint account to be switched to her sole name. 
I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for Barclays to do nothing once it was aware of the dispute. It 
should have quickly taken steps  to make sure that both parties authorised  any transactions on the 
account. 
I also think  that in the circumstances  of this case it would have been reasonable for Barclays to send 
any correspondence relating  to the joint account  to both account holders.  I can see the argument that 
a reasonable bank  would do this in every case once it is aware of a dispute and where (as in this 
case) it had both parties addresses. But that is particularly so in the individual circumstances of this 
case, where the account  was operating in excess of its overdraft  limit, the account holders were jointly 
and severally  liable for the debt and Barclays went on to issue a termination notice and default on the 
account. 
While the terms  and conditions of the account  might say that it is for the customers  to ask for the bank 
to write  to both joint account holders, I think it would  be reasonable for Barclays to have told Mr E and 
Ms O of this requirement once it was aware of the marital dispute. If it had done so, I see no reason  
why both Mr E and Ms O would  not have  wanted  any correspondence  to be sent to each of their 
addresses. So, if Barclays had acted  fairly  it would have written to both Mr E and Ms O.  
I can see all the correspondence was sent to Mr E. Im satisfied that Barclays took reasonable steps 
to make him aware of the termination of the account and that included that the overdraft limit had 
been withdrawn  I will deal with the fairness of that below. 
Barclays has given a copy of a termination notice that was sent to Ms O at her home  address on 27 
July 2016. That letter sets out that it was terminating its agreement on 10 August  2016 and that the 
full overdrawn balance was repayable by that date.  
Barclays has also given us evidence that it spoke to Ms O on 1 September  2016 about the joint 
account. It says that she asked for an update on the account and that it advised  her of current  
situation and advised waiting to hear back from Mr with update on [income and expenditure].  Unsure 
of what  will happen  or what plan may be agreed depends on [income and expenditure].  The notes  go 
on to say that Ms O feels out of the loop and worried about these  accounts. 
I accept that Ms O knew that the joint account had been terminated. But I consider from the 
conversation she had with Barclays  after that she could have  taken some comfort  that a plan would  
be agreed with Mr E. There was no mention of a default.  But there was another  missed  opportunity to 
make sure all correspondence went to Ms O  particularly  as she said she was worried  about the joint 
account and felt out of the loop. 
There was one letter  after Ms O spoke to Barclays and before  the default was issued that wasnt sent 
to her. If it had been  sent to Ms O she would  have known that no arrangement had been reached 
between Mr E and Barclays in respect of the joint account and that action was required to prevent a 
default. 
Barclays has an obligation to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. To do that in 
this case,  Barclays should have sent all correspondence  to both account holders. It also should have  
done more when it spoke  to Ms O to give a more balanced explanation  of the position the account  
was in, the likelihood of a default , that she remained jointly and severally liable for the debt and that it 
could carry out an income and expenditure exercise  to determine how much she could contribute to 
repaying the debt.
Ref: DRN235839011financial difficulties
Barclays had an obligation  to deal positively  and sympathetically with Mr E and Ms O when  it was 
aware of their financial difficulties. I think it would have been reasonable  for Barclays to have 
concerns about whether  Mr E and Ms O were in financial difficulty in March 2016. Thats when  the 
overdraft exceeded its limit. Barclays also knew that Mr E and Ms O had separated at that point.  In 
view of that along with the apparent strain on their finances, it was reasonable to assume that they 
were in a vulnerable position. And Barclays should have adjusted its approach accordingly.
Mr E spoke to Barclays  a number of times until the account was defaulted in September. Its clear  
from listening to those phone calls that he is keen to freeze the accounts  and come to an 
arrangement to clear  the overdrawn balance. During those calls Barclays took details  of Mr Es 
income and expenditure  to determine his financial  situation and to see what he could afford to pay to 
clear the overdrawn balance. 
While obtaining details of income and expenditure is in line with good industry  practice, I think there 
were some shortcomings  in the way that Barclays gathered that information and in the way it dealt 
with it:
Barclays made Mr E go through his income and expenditure  a number of times during a short  
period when  it knew that his circumstances werent materially  different. But I accept that it was 
necessary for Barclay to obtain this information. 
Barclays was inflexible when assessing  the figures. In the 2 June 2016  income and expenditure  it 
shows a surplus  of over £580  a month. Despite this Barclays  didnt agree  a payment plan 
because Mr E didnt know  the amount he paid towards his water bill to hand.  Realistically this was 
never going to have  a significant impact on Mr Es disposable income (the water bill turned  out to 
be £40 a month).  I consider it would have been reasonable for Barclays to come to a payment 
arrangement at this point.
When Mr E spoke to Barclays on 29 July 2016, Barclays told him it didnt understand why a 
payment arrangement wasnt put in place on 2 June and it would definitely be able to put 
something in place before it defaults. But the information  Mr E had given Barclays previously 
about his income and expenditure wasnt available when he spoke to it. 
There was scope  for confusion when Barclays gathered  information about Mr Es expenditure. I 
consider this led to him finding  himself  in an apparent deficit  during the 30 August 2016  phone 
call. There was confusion about  the amount he was paying towards child care,  care for adults,  his 
pension and internet/landline. Bearing  in mind the importance of the income and expenditure  
figures I think Barclays could  have done more  to ensure that the figures it recorded were 
accurate. After listening to this phone call I dont have confidence the figures gathered during this 
phone call were  correct or properly  reflected  Mr Es expenditure
Even if expenditure was correct (and I am not persuaded it was) there was clearly room for Mr E 
to budget  in a number of areas. If Barclays had done more to communicate clearly and fairly I 
think it is likely that he could have reduced his expenditure in a number of areas. 
Barclays insisted on a payment arrangement where the overdraft  could be repaid in 12 months.  
Even if the lower  disposable income  figure was correct, Mr E said that he was due a bonus in 
March/April 2017  that he would use to clear the full balance. I cant see that Barclays took the 
bonus payment  into account when  deciding whether  to offer an arrangement or not. Its not clear 
why Barclays  couldnt  accept payments  until the bonus  was due and then full payment of the 
debt. 
On 12 September 2016, Barclays told Mr E that it could set up a payment arrangement for him. 
But when he contacted Barclays the following day he was told there had been a mistake and 
Ref: DRN235839012Barclays wasnt prepared to set up a payment arrangement. It said that was because the 
arrangement would lead to a default in any case because of the rules that were in place.
I accept that the guidance  from the Information Commissioners Office  is that it would usually 
expect a default to be recorded when an account is between  three and six months in arrears. But 
that is because it would usually reflect that a consumer  cant make the payments due to the debt. 
I dont consider that it was reasonable for Barclays to consider that the position  here, for the 
reasons set out above. And Barclays didnt  set out the six month deadline  in any of its previous 
phone calls.
Mr E was understandably confused by the change in approach (and tone) by Barclays when he 
spoke to it on 13 September. It had clearly made a mistake on 12 September  and it accepted 
that. But it didnt handle the mistake well. In the circumstances,  it could have done more to set out 
what Mr E needed to do. While  it asked Mr E to call back  that day, I can see how Mr E could have 
left that call with the impression that there werent any options left available  to him  and rightly 
concerned that he would have to submit full details  of his income and expenditure again. I think 
that Barclays took an overly rigid stance  when  thinking about what  it could do to help Mr E and 
this has contributed to the default being recorded. 
On 26 September 2016, Barclays wrote a final letter to Mr E before the account was defaulted. I 
dont see how Mr E would have  understood that the position was any different to the phone call of 
13 September. Hed already given Barclays details  of his income and expenditure a number of 
times. Barclays had given him conflicting information about whether a payment arrangement was 
possible. I can see how he might have  thought that there was little point in contacting Barclays 
again.
Barclays missed  opportunities to explain the position of the account  fully to Ms O. Although I 
accept that she ought reasonably to have  been  aware  that the overdraft had been withdrawn, she 
was led to believe during the last phone call Barclays had with her that it was likely  that an 
arrangement could be reached. Bearing in mind Barclays duty to communicate in a way that is 
clear, fair and not misleading, Barclays could have made clear  to her that she remained jointly 
and severally  liable for the debt. Its not clear why Barclays  didnt take steps to obtain details of 
her income  and expenditure to assess whether  she could contribute  towards a payment  
arrangement. It is more  likely than not that if Barclays had asked  Ms O for this information  she 
would have  supplied it. It follows that it would  have  been more  likely that an acceptable payment  
arrangement could have been reached.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont consider that Barclays  has dealt with Mr E and Ms O in a fair 
and reasonable way in respect of their joint account.  I accept that some responsibility lies with both Mr 
E and Ms O in letting the overdraft exceed its limit and failing to repay  it or come to an arrangement to 
pay it. And Barclays has acted reasonably by giving Mr E and Ms O breathing space to come to an 
arrangement  and in previously  agreeing  arrangements to reduce unauthorised  overdrawn balances. 
But Mr E and Ms O didnt know Barclays  policies or procedures.  And I think that it was due to 
Barclays errors that no payment arrangement was reached. 
If Barclays had acted  fairly and reasonably,  I consider that it is likely  that it would  have reached a 
payment arrangement with Mr E following the conversation of 2 June 2016.  It was wrong  to rely on 
the flawed income and expenditure details taken during the phone call of 30 August 2016. And if it 
had given Ms O full information about the account and her liability, its more likely  than not that she 
would have given details of her income  and expenditure, making it more likely that an arrangement 
could be reached to avoid a default. Even if no arrangement could then have been reached, I dont 
believe that Barclays  gave  proper consideration to the fact that Mr E said he was due to receive  a 
bonus in March/April 2017 that would allow him to repay the debt in full within a year. 
I consider that if Barclays had dealt  fairly  with Mr E and Ms O it is likely it would  have reached an 
arrangement with them  that prevented the account being defaulted. Bearing  in mind  the importance of 
not having  a default to Mr E, I think it is likely that he would have maintained  the payment 
Ref: DRN235839013arrangement. I say this as Mr E has given  evidence that he made regular  monthly  payments to the 
debt collection agency  before clearing the debt in full with a lump sum payment.
I agree that Barclays is obliged to record true and accurate information  about  the conduct of Mr E and 
Ms Os account. But for the reasons  Ive explained above, I think  the default largely came about  
because of failures by Barclays to deal with Mr E and Ms O in a fair and reasonable way. Im not 
persuaded that the default  is a true reflection of Mr E and Ms Os creditworthiness.
So I dont consider  it was fair for Barclays to record a default against Mr E and Ms O in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. I consider that Barclays should remove the default  from Mr E and Ms 
Os credit file. 
In this case, there are a number of variables that could  have affected how the account  operated. So I 
think the fairest  outcome  would be to show the joint account as settled  in full at the time the account  
was defaulted. But I will consider the responses from all parties about what should be recorded  on the 
credit files in regard to the joint account once the default is removed. 
putting things right
Ive already found that Barclays didnt properly deal with the marital dispute. While Ms O had some  
information about the account, she didnt know everything that happened. I consider this has caused 
her some unnecessary worry and inconvenience. And there was some avoidable  confusion  about 
what the overdraft limit was and whether it had been withdrawn.
I also think  the way that Barclays dealt with Mr E has caused him trouble and upset. He had to 
provide very detailed  information about his income  and expenditure  a number of times.  That wouldnt 
have been necessary if Barclays hadnt lost the information he provided  on 2 June 2016.
Barclays raised Mr Es hopes by leading  him to believe that a payment arrangement would be agreed 
in its phone  call of 12 September.  But when he phoned  back  the following  day, it told him that was a 
mistake. I dont consider  Barclays handled  that with appropriate sensitivity and it reasonably  should  
have done more  to see if there was anything else it could  do to put a mutually acceptable payment 
arrangement in place.
Both Mr E and Ms O have also suffered stress  and worry  because of the default  that has been 
recorded against them. Mr E particularly has had the worry that if he were  to look for a new job in the 
financial services sector, any prospective employer  would carry  out a credit check and discover  the 
default. Ive already found that if Barclays had acted reasonably its likely that a default could have 
been avoided  and that it wasnt fair for it to record a default in the individual circumstances of this 
case.
Barclays passed the debt to a debt collections agency. Ms O has said that she found the contact from 
this agency stressful.  And that would also have been avoided had Barclays acted fairly in the first 
place. 
Taking all of that into account, I consider that Barclays has caused Mr E and Ms O material distress 
and inconvenience.  The amount of trouble  and upset that Mr E and Ms O have suffered will be 
different. So I think that Barclays  should make a payment to each of them. Bearing  in mind the 
circumstances set out above  I consider  it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr E £350 and Ms O £250 
to reflect the trouble and upset they have each experienced as a result of this matter.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional  decision is to uphold  this complaint.  I propose that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Remove the default from Mr E and Ms Os credit file.
Ref: DRN235839014Mark the joint account  as settled in full on the date it defaulted.
Pay Mr E and Ms O £600 for any trouble  and upset. The £600 should be divided as follows:
opay £350  to Mr E
pay £250  to Ms O
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2358390