K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
in 1995.  Mr H says Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) mis-sold  him the PPI. Its been 
agreed Pinnacle as the insurer should  accept  responsibility for the complaint. Although 
Pinnacle didnt  actually sell the PPI, to keep things simple Ill refer just to Pinnacle in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Mr H says that Pinnacle recommended the PPI to him and advised him to have it. Pinnacle 
says it doesnt  think  it did. But Ill assume that advice  and recommendation was given and 
that Pinnacle should have  checked  that the policy was suitable for Mr H as this to his 
advantage but it wont affect the outcome below.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Pinnacle made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Pinnacle has provided  a sample of the form 
that Mr H wouldve had to fill in to get the PPI. Its is a separate  form to the mortgage 
application and it required Mr H to make choices about the level of cover,  say he 
wanted the PPI and sign for it. So I think its more likely than not that Mr H chose to 
take the PPI based  on the advice  and information Pinnacle gave him.
Ive assumed that Pinnacle recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need for the cover. I say this because 
Mr H had 6 months  of sick pay entitlement from his employer  and some savings. But 
the PPI would have helped him make most of his mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months in addition to his sick pay if he was unable to work  through  accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. So I think he wouldve considered that the PPI would  
help him through such difficult financial circumstances  and potentially  help him to 
keep his home and not lose his savings.
Its possible the information Pinnacle  gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable at under £20 a month. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
H may not have been treated fairly  and reasonably  by Pinnacle in its dealings with him, I find 
he has not lost out. This is because, on balance, for the reasons Ive detailed above,  I think 
Ref: DRN26843072Mr H would have been in the same  position  if Pinnacle had done more and properly advised 
and informed him - I think he would  have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr H has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with his mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2684307