K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained, through a claims management company  (CMC),  about a whole of life 
and critical illness protection policy that she took out following advice from Abbey Life 
Assurance Company  Limited. She has said she only wanted critical illness protection  so has 
been paying unnecessarily for the life cover that was attached.
background
Mrs S took out the whole of life and critical illness policy in March 1989.  The initial sum 
assured policy  on the policy was just under £15,000 with a premium of around  £12 per 
month.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
carried out some research and found  that the critical illness cover Mrs S required was only 
available as an add-on to life cover  at that point in time. He acknowledged that some 
standalone policies were available later on in 1989  but if any were available in March 1989 
they would  have been very expensive and from only a limited  amount of providers.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment. It disagreed that limited standalone critical 
illness policies were  available in 1989. It also referred to a different complaint we had dealt 
with in the Service where it felt the circumstances  were similar and the complaint  was 
upheld.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly the CMC knows very well that each  case is considered on its own merits so while it 
has referenced another complaint, in making  my decision I need  to consider the individual 
circumstances of this case alone.
Information from the sale of the policy is limited; however a personal financial analysis 
document was completed at the time of the sale, very likely in conjunction  with Mrs S. This 
collated the personal and financial details of Mrs S along  with her needs and objectives.
Mrs S has indicated  in this document that her priority was protection  against long term 
illness. This was also reiterated again in the comments section of the document where it was 
recorded that she wanted to provide protection in the event of a major  illness .
Given this I am satisfied that Mrs Ss priority at the time was to take critical illness cover only.
On first sight a whole of life policy containing critical illness cover does seem to be 
unsuitable. Why would a consumer need to pay for life cover if all they wanted was critical 
illness protection?  However, like the investigator I have researched what types  of policy  
were available in 1989 and whether standalone critical  illness  policies were available.
Ref: DRN26241352From everything I have seen that provides this information from that time, I am satisfied that 
in March 1989 critical illness protection (or dread disease cover  as it was known then) was 
only available as an additional part of a policy that provided life protection. The information 
I have seen does  indicate that around four months later this started to change and a limited 
amount of standalone critical illness polices did start to become available,  but this was only 
through a very small amount of providers. As this was the case, its also very likely  that these 
standalone policies would have been very expensive, possibly out of Mrs S price range.
Given this information,  when Mrs S took her whole of life and critical illness cover in March 
1989 I am satisfied that stand alone critical illness polices  were not available  or at the very 
least if they were they were rare. So as she wanted  critical  illness  cover  it seems one of the 
only ways this could  happen was for the critical illness cover to be provided as part of a 
policy which  also provided life protection. I accept she could have taken this with an 
endowment protection plan rather than a whole of life plan but the role of this Service isnt to 
look for the best advice possible;  it is to assess whether the advice and recommendation 
provided was suitable.  And in this situation  given the time the policy was taken I think taking 
the whole  of life policy which also provided the critical illness  protection  Mrs S wanted was a 
suitable way of meeting her specific objectives. Overall  there  was little else she could do if 
she wanted the critical illness protection at that time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2624135