K821x#15complaint
Miss J says Elevate Credit International Limited,  (trading as Sunny),  irresponsibly lent to 
her. She says that the lender ought  to have  known that the she couldnt afford to repay the 
payday loans,  and / or that in order to repay  the payday loans, she would have to borrow 
further loans,  (often from other payday  lenders),  in order to make  the repayments,  which  
resulted in trapping her in a debt spiral.
background
The background to this complaint together with my provisional findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision dated 31 October 2019, an extract of which is attached to and forms 
part of this final decision
Miss J didnt  comment or send us any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Sunny disagreed with my provisional decision.  Although in the next section I havent set out 
every comment it made, I have given careful consideration to them all.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunnys main comments on my provisional  decision are as follows:
I havent suggested anywhere  that Sunnys affordability calculation  was inadequate or 
that Miss Js declared disposable income  was insufficient to make  the repayments  on her 
Sunny loan. It says that on the basis of the calculations it did in respect of loans 1  5, in 
the absence of other factors,  it was reasonable to conclude  that Miss Js disposable 
income was more than sufficient for her to make her repayments for loans 4 and 5.
There is no evidence that Sunny had seen that indicated that Miss J was not managing  
her money when she applied for loans 1 - 5. Sunny says this because, in addition  to 
what it said about her disposable  income, Miss J was never in arrears  on her 
repayments on loans  1  5 and repaid  them in full and there was no record  or flag on 
their system to indicate she was having  difficulties. Sunny goes on to say that she called 
a few times but only to ask to change  her payment dates. 
Miss J was not immediately repaying Sunnys loans and re-borrowing from it.
The period  during  which loans  1  5 were  granted was 4 months  so there was no 
suggestion at that point  that she was using its loans over an extended period.
I said that that its checks were not sufficient when Miss J applied  for loan 4. However it 
had used credit reference  agency  information that had been reported on the date of that 
application. It also verified Miss Js income  as being accurate. It undertook the same 
checks for loan 5. So in Sunnys view there  was no reasonable  basis  for me to have 
concluded that its checks in relation to loans 4 and 5 were  insufficient and that it should 
have realised that she was having  problems managing her money when she applied for 
loans 1  5.
Ref: DRN23656432My assessment did not acknowledge that Sunny did take into consideration Miss Js 
other borrowings  which  had been  reported  to the credit reference agencies  at the date of 
her applications.
My decision in relation  to loans 5  18 appears to have focused  solely  on the fact that 
Miss J had an outstanding  loan with another lender and that I concluded that she was 
having to borrow  to meet her repayments  to Sunny. Thereby making the Sunny  loans 
unsustainable. Sunny  goes on to suggest  that it appears that I made the assumption  that 
if she had any other  credit commitments  on her credit file she must have been  borrowing 
solely for the purpose of repaying  its loans.
My analysis  of whether the Sunny loans were  sustainable placed a disproportional 
emphasis on the mere  existence of other borrowing. That is to say I did not give 
appropriate weight  to:
othe amount  Miss J may actually  have been repaying other creditors at the dates 
of her applications;
othe amount  of the Sunny loans Miss J applied for; and
oother factors referred to in the relevant regulatory guidance, being the ability  to 
make the repayments on time while meeting other  reasonable commitments;
Sunny points out that, other than loans 16 18, Miss J repaid all her loans on time and, 
based on her declared disposable income, she was able to meet her other reasonable 
commitments, including more than one Sunny loan at a time.
It would  be artificial  to make affordability  dependent on the number and frequency of 
previous loans a customer had with Sunny, as opposed to those the customer had with a 
third party;
Sunny  was only required to consider Miss Js ability to meet repayments during the term 
of each individual loan. It was not required to undertake any assessment of the overall 
sustainability of her borrowings in general;
It is incorrect for us to assume that the number of loans granted by Sunny alone, in the 
absence of any other factors or evidence, necessarily impaired Miss Js ability  to access 
mainstream credit. Different lenders use credit information in different ways in their 
assessments.
My responses to these  comments are as follows:
As I explained in my provisional decision I felt that it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on 
what Miss J told it at the beginning of its lending relationship with her. However, by the time 
Miss J applied  for loan 4 she had been  indebted to Sunny for three  months and four fifths, by 
value, of the loans she had taken  out were  still running. And this application  was for a larger 
loan than any previous ones she had taken out with it. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, as Ive said, I think that Sunny should have looked at Miss Js financial 
circumstances in more  depth to see what was going on. This has nothing  to do with the 
calculations Sunny made or the level of disposable income she declared to it.
Ref: DRN23656433I dont know the full detail of the information Sunny obtained about Miss J when she took out 
loans 4 and 5. Usually lenders dont get complete figures from the credit  reference agencies. 
But had Sunny carried out more  thorough checks,  which I think it ought  to have, it would 
have seen that, in addition  to the loans she had with it, she had taken out and was paying  off 
other loans  with different lenders during at least the two months before. Im satisfied that in 
these particular circumstances  she was borrowing to pay off other loans  and that she wasnt 
managing her money.
It may well be that Sunny  did take into account  Miss Js loans with other  lenders  in making 
its assessments. But if it did so, Im of the view that it didnt draw the right conclusions from 
this information.
The fact that Miss J wasnt repaying a loan and then immediately taking a new loan doesnt 
change my view. And my provisional  decision didnt assume that Miss J was borrowing from 
Sunny just to repay her loans with it. Im satisfied that she was using her income  and various 
loans to try to meet all her financial obligations.
The fact that Miss J was never in arrears  in her repayments on loans 1 - 3 and repaid them 
in full, or that she didnt tell Sunny that she was in financial  hardship, is not evidence that she 
was able to make her repayments sustainably. 
I didnt suggest  that the period over which loans 4 and 5 were taken should  be considered 
an extended period in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunny hasnt explained how it verified Miss Js declared income. In any event  it seems  from 
her statements that this was approximately accurate.
My decision  to uphold  loans 6  18 was based  on Miss Js overall  pattern  of lending, as I 
explained in my provisional decision.  It wasnt based  on the fact that she had an outstanding 
loan with another lender.  In my opinion she was clearly at that stage not taking the loans to 
help her over a short-term  cash-flow problem but to cover an on-going  need.  This isnt what  
these high-interest loans  are intended  to be used for. And at the time of the application for 
loan 6 Sunny ought to have realised  that further lending  was unsustainable or otherwise  
harmful.
I dont dispute  that different lenders make lending decisions on different bases. But, based 
on what we know about the credit  market, Im satisfied that, at the time of Miss Js 
application for the sixth loan, the number of loans she had taken out with Sunny would have 
made it very difficult, if not impossible,  for her to access  main-stream  loans. And that position  
continued during the remainder of her lending relationship with Sunny.
From what  Ive said above I dont consider that anything  that Sunny has now told us gives 
rise to a reason for me to change my provisional findings. And as it hasnt  given me any 
further information about the writing off of part of loans 17 and 18 I see no reason to change  
my provisional decision.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss J paid on loans 4 to 18;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN23656434remove any adverse entries about loans four and five from Miss Js credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  these should be removed from Miss Js 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above  I order Elevate Credit 
International Limited to make the refunds, payments and changes  to Miss Js credit file as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23656435Extract  of provisional decision dated 31 October 2019
background
This complaint is about  18 instalment loans Sunny provided to Miss J between  October  2015 and 
September 2017. 
Each of the loans was repayable by six monthly  equal  amounts.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Js complaint  and thought the loans from six onwards shouldnt 
have been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
Miss Js borrowing history is set out [below].
Loan Amount Date of loan draw Date repaid    Loans
outstanding
1 300 10/10/2015 26/01/2016 1,
2 150 26/10/2015 29/12/2015 1,2
3 300 10/11/2015 26/02/2016 1,2,3
4 350 10/01/2016 26/04/2016 1,3,4,
5 400 17/02/2016 25/06/2016 3,4,5
6 400 02/03/2016 08/08/2016 4,5,6
7 250 05/05/2016 08/08/2016 5,6,7
8 450 08/07/2016 08/08/2016 6,7,8
9 400 27/10/2016 28/03/2017       9,
10 200 15/01/2017 03/02/2017 9,10
11 200 10/02/2017 27/05/2017 9,11
12 200 17/02/2017 26/05/2017 9,11,12
13 300 13/04/2017 05/06/2017 11,12,13
14 200 17/04/2017 05/06/2017 11,12,13,14
15 300 20/06/2017 18/01/2018       15,
16 150 23/06/2017 18/01/2018 15,16
17 250 01/09/2017 18/01/2018 15,16,17
18 200 16/09/2017 18/01/2018 15,16,17,18
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss J could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
Ref: DRN23656436the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Miss 
J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Im aware that there were  two periods, respectively  of 80 and 15 days  when Miss J didnt  have any 
outstanding loans with Sunny. But looking at Miss Js overall borrowings with Sunny, I dont consider 
that either of these periods  was long enough for it to conclude that she had got her finances under  
control in these periods.  And hence to treat her as a new customer. So Ive concluded that I should  
treat the whole of her borrowings as a single  chain of lending. 
Loans 1  5
Loans one to three  were taken out at the beginning of Miss Js borrowing  relationship with Sunny. And 
although loans two and three were taken out while the two previous loans  were still running, bearing 
in mind the salary Miss J said she was earning, I dont think I have enough information to conclude  
that there was anything  that should have put Sunny on notice that Miss J was not using the loans  to 
cover a short  term temporary shortfall in her finances. 
However, Miss J took out loan four, just two months after taking out the previous  one, and while the 
two largest of her three earliest ones were still running. This loan was for the largest amount so far. I 
think that at that point  Sunny ought to have investigated Miss Js financial circumstances in more  
depth. Had it done so and asked to see Miss Js bank statements or credit file, Sunny would have 
seen that, in addition to her two loans with it, she was paying off another  loan with a different short-
term lender. I find that at this point Sunny ought  to have realised that Miss J wasnt managing her 
money and it shouldnt have given her the fourth loan.  I find that Sunny shouldnt  have given Miss J 
loan five for similar reasons. So she has lost out because Sunny gave  her loans four and five.
Loans 6 - 18
Ref: DRN23656437Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending  history with Miss J, with a view to seeing  if there 
was a point at which  Sunny  should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful.  And so Sunny should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further  
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Js case, I think  that this point was reached by loan six. 
This loan was for as high a sum as the highest of the five previous ones and Miss J had been 
indebted to Sunny for a continuous period of more than five months. So I conclude that Sunny ought 
to have realised that she hadnt got her finances under control after loan five.
Thereafter, apart  from the two gaps to which Ive referred above, Miss J was permanently in debt to 
Sunny. In most cases with two or more, loans with it running at the same time. Although  the amounts 
borrowed fluctuated, Miss J wasnt making  any real inroads into the amount. So I find that Sunny 
shouldnt have lent Miss J loans 5 to 18. I think that she lost out because  Sunny continued to provide 
these loans because
they had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Js indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and / or the length of time over which Miss J borrowed were  likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Js ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So subject to any further information or comments I receive Im proposing to uphold the complaint 
about loans 4 to 18 and ask Sunny should put things right.
putting things  right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss J paid on loans  4 to 18;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse  entries about loans  four and five from Miss Js credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means  any information recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  these should be removed from Miss Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss J a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
I see that part of loan 16 and the whole of loans 17 and 18 appear to have been  written off. I dont 
know why. Perhaps they have been sold to a third party.  I would  ask Sunny to explain the position  to 
me as this may affect the way I will ask it to put things right. In particular, if Sunny hasnt sold the debt 
to a third party I may tell it that it can use part of the redress,  as calculated  above, to repay  the written 
off principal.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im provisionally intending to partially upholding Miss Js complaint.  
And, subject as above, I will order Elevate  Credit International Limited to pay Miss J compensation as 
set out above.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2365643