K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance  (PPI) in 
connection with her mortgage.
background
In 2008 Ms M took out a mortgage  with Santander  during a meeting at one of its branches.  
At the same time Ms M took out PPI to cover her income and protect her mortgage  
payments in the event she couldnt work through accident or sickness.
The policy cost £9.83 a month  and it provided a benefit  of £270 per month to approximately 
match Ms Ms monthly mortgage payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for accident or sickness  for up to 12 
months per claim.
Ms Ms PPI policy ended in 2016.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ms complaint didnt think  Santander explained the terms 
and conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Ms M. And she didnt think  Ms M wouldve bought 
the policy if it had. Santander disagrees, so Ms Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Santander says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Ms M with enough 
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about  it. It also had to 
ensure the policy  was right or suitable  for her based  on her needs and circumstances at the 
time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
Having looked  at the evidence, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Santander  told Ms M enough about the PPI. And, on 
balance, I think if Santander  had given Ms M the advice and clear information she needed 
she wouldnt  have bought the policy.
I say this because  its likely the policy Ms M was sold wouldnt have covered her for any 
medical conditions  she had when she bought it. Ms M has told us that she had a medical 
condition when she was sold the policy that significantly  affected her health  at the time and 
would most  likely have  in later life. She explained  to our adjudicator that the medical 
condition had been ongoing  for a number of years and required daily medication to control  it. 
She told Santander about the medical  condition during their investigation  into the complaint. 
As Ive said,  I think its likely the PPI excluded  cover for her known medical condition. Ms Ms 
explanation of her medical condition has been clear,  detailed  and plausible,  and whilst I 
accept shes saying  this in support of her complaint, I think its more  likely than not that she 
Ref: DRN27413962did have this medical condition. So, on the basis of this, I think  its likely  the exclusion in the 
policy wouldve mattered to Ms M when she bought the PPI. 
I havent seen  anything to show Santander did enough  to make this exclusion clear to Ms M 
in the meeting that took place. If it had done,  and based on the information Ive got, I think  its 
unlikely Ms M wouldve gone ahead with the policy if shed known she wasnt  likely to have 
been covered  if shed  needed time off work  because of her known medical  condition.  
I think Ms M has lost out because of what Santander has done  wrong  and so it should put 
things right.
putting things right
Santander should put Ms M in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Santander should:
Pay Ms M the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2741396