K820x#14complaint
Miss L is complaining about the way Zenith  Insurance  plc handled  a claim she made on her 
car insurance policy. Shes also unhappy it subsequently cancelled  the policy.  
background
Miss L was involved in an accident where  she drove into the back  of another  car. The other 
driver claimed for the damage to their car on Miss Ls car insurance policy.  Miss L says that 
she was told that Zenith  wouldnt pay the claim if the other driver didnt claim within  six 
months. She says she contacted Zenith a number of times over the proceeding months and 
was told that no claim  had been  made.  
However, when she discussed  the claim with Zenith, it learned that shed changed jobs and 
was working as a delivery driver. Zenith says it was told that she was working as an account 
manager when  the policy renewed.  So it asked her to provide evidence that she was working 
as an account  manager at renewal. But Miss L responded to say that shed recently moved  
house and disposed of a lot of old paperwork. So she said she didnt have anything from her 
previous employer. 
Zenith then asked her broker  to cancel the policy as it said it didnt provide insurance to 
individuals whose  profession was a delivery driver. But, as it had paid the other drivers 
claim, it said Miss L owed  the full annual premium.
Miss L complained to Zenith that it had settled the claim given shed been told the other 
driver hadnt claimed  within  six months.   
Zenith thought  Miss L was at fault for the accident and paid the other  drivers  claim. And it 
said that it cant see anywhere where it had told her that it wouldnt pay out if the other  driver  
didnt claim within six months. But it accepted  that it didnt tell her it had settled the claim, so 
it offered her £100 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she hadnt  seen  anything  to show  that 
Zenith had told her the other driver only had six months to claim.  She thought it was possible 
Miss Ls broker might have said that. But she didnt think  Zenith  had done so. She also 
thought it was fair for Zenith to cancel the policy given Miss L couldnt show that she wasnt 
a delivery driver when  the policy renewed.
Miss L didnt  agree  with the investigator.  She maintained that shed called Zenith  a number 
of times over many  months and was continually told the other driver hadnt made a claim. 
She also said that she was harassed  throughout the claim and specifically referred to the 
claims investigator coming to interview her at 9:30 on a Friday  night.
So the complaints  been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint.  And Ill now explain why.
Ref: DRN23015522settlement of the claim
Miss L has said that Zenith told her that the other driver only had six months to claim. But I 
havent seen anything to show this. And I think its unlikely it would have said that. The other 
drivers representative wrote to Zenith  on the day of the accident. And Zenith was aware of 
the claim before Miss L called to discuss  it. So I think its unlikely it would have  told her that 
the other driver only had six months  to claim, given this wasnt the case  and that shed 
already claimed.  
Miss L says that she spoke with Zenith  a number of times throughout the claims process to 
discuss this. But Ive reviewed Zeniths  internal records and I cant  see that she did discuss  
this with Zenith. Its possible she may have discussed this with her broker,  but shell  need to 
raise this with them  separately.
However, irrespective of this, I can see that Zenith  ultimately  told the other  drivers  
representative about a month after the claim that it would settle it in full. So, even if Miss L 
was told that the other driver only had six months  to claim, she hasnt lost out as a result of 
this.
Zenith accepts that it didnt tell Miss L that it had settled the claim. And I can understand why 
Miss L was upset about this. But its offered her £100 in compensation for this. And I think  
thats fair.
Miss L has also commented that she felt harassed  throughout the claim process. But I 
havent seen anything to support this. Theres always  likely  to be some  inconvenience when 
dealing with a claim.  But I dont think Zeniths actions were unfair in this case.
cancellation of the policy
Zenith cancelled  Miss Ls insurance policy because shed changed jobs to become a 
delivery driver. It asked her to provide evidence that shed done so after the policy  renewed. 
But she said she didnt have any paperwork from her last job. So she said she couldnt do 
so. Zenith  said that it doesnt insure  delivery drivers. And, given Miss L couldnt show she 
wasnt a delivery driver when the policy renewed, it cancelled  the policy.
I can see that it asked Miss L to show that she was an account manager  as she declared 
she was  when  she took out the policy. And I think thats fair, given she was subsequently 
working in a profession which  would mean  it wouldnt have offered her insurance had it 
known this.. Miss L responded to say that she was unable to provide this information. The 
terms of Miss Ls insurance policy entitled  it to cancel the insurance policy  with seven days  
notice. And I dont think it was unreasonable that it did so in this case, given Miss Ls 
comments. 
It could alternatively have taken steps  to avoid her insurance policy back  to the beginning 
which could have meant that Miss L would become liable for the losses the other driver was 
claiming for as she wouldnt have  had an insurance  policy to use. Given this, I dont think 
Zenith acted unreasonably  in cancelling the insurance policy when it did.
Also the policy  terms say the full annual premium is payable if the policy is cancelled  and 
theres been a claim made on the insurance  policy. As Zenith has settled the other drivers 
claim, Zenith was entitled to require Miss L to pay the full annual premium.
Ref: DRN23015523my final decision
Zenith Insurance plc has already made  an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So, for the reasons Ive set out above, its my 
final decision  is that Zenith Insurance plc should pay Miss L £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2301552