K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains he has paid too much interest on the credit  card accounts he holds with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
Mr D has had two credit card accounts  with Barclays for a considerable amount of time. 
Initially he was complaining about  the interest  he had paid on the accounts  since  he opened  
them. But as the complaint progressed  he let us know  that his complaint was about interest 
that had been applied  on the accounts from August 2017 onwards. 
Mr D told us he contacted  Barclays in August 2017 to complain about interest and ask for its 
proposals for a repayment plan. He also wanted to know how much  interest hed paid it over 
the years. He expected  it to respond and come  up with a mutually acceptable solution. But 
instead, according to Mr D it ignored  his requests. As a result,  Mr D suggested he had paid 
more interest in this period than he should  have done. He also emphasised  that hed had to 
keep on chasing  it.
In addition Mr D pointed  out that Barclays had mixed up this complaint with another  separate  
complaint that he had with it. He found this unsatisfactory.
Months later, Barclays looked at his complaint and made  a payment to him. Mr Ds stance 
was that by doing this Barclays had accepted it was in the wrong.
Further, Mr D mentioned  the approach to persistent debt that was launched  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  in 2018.  He suggested  Barclays has not applied  the appropriate 
persistent debt rules. 
Barclays had a different  take on the matter.  It said the interest was applied  in line with the 
relevant terms and conditions of the accounts.  On this basis  it did not agree it should  refund 
this interest. However, it suggested it had not always  given Mr D the level of customer  
service he is entitled to expect while looking at this complaint. It offered Mr D £100  for the 
distress and inconvenience it is likely this caused  him to experience.  Its records  show it paid 
Mr D this amount.
Barclays also offered a goodwill gesture. It offered Mr D around £3,000. This was in relation 
to the interest  charged on his accounts from June 2018. Its records  show it refunded this 
amount to Mr D.
Further, it said it had followed the guidance  from the FCA regarding  persistent debt. It asked  
if Mr D was in financial  difficulties and outlined the initial steps that it and Mr D needed to 
take if that was the case.
Dissatisfied with this response Mr D came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint. He didnt uphold  it. In summary, he concluded  
the interest had been applied in line with the relevant terms and conditions. He didnt think  
that Barclays had agreed  it had acted incorrectly in applying the interest. Rather it had made 
a goodwill gesture in refunding some of the interest.  He noted that Barclays had not always 
offered the level of customer service that it should  have done.  But it had paid him £100 for 
this and our investigator  thought this was enough.
Ref: DRN29257132On balance, our investigator  didnt  agree  Barclays had ignored Mr D when  he asked for 
repayment plan options. He looked at the persistent debt rules. He thought  theyd been  
applied. Our investigator  also took into account that Mr D had the benefit of spending on the 
card.
In all the circumstances our investigator  didnt agree it was unreasonable of Barclays to ask 
Mr D to repay it the full amount it asked for.
Barclays accepted  our investigators  conclusions. Mr D didnt. In summary, he responded to 
say our investigator hadnt looked  at his complaint  in enough  detail or been in contact 
sufficiently with him. He wanted to know why Barclays hadnt responded to his letters  of 
August 2017.  He suggested he had no way of checking if the interest had been applied in 
line with the relevant terms  and conditions. He didnt agree the refund hed got went far 
enough. He told us he had provided  details of his income and expenditure to Barclays,  but it 
had not taken this further. He pointed out again  that Barclays had mixed up this complaint 
with a separate complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, (as is the case, in part, in this complaint) I 
have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I can see that Mr D has made a number of detailed points  in support of his complaint. I have 
read and considered everything that both Mr D and Barclays have sent to this service.  
However, Ive not responded in similar detail. As an informal dispute resolution  service, our 
role is to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing  so, it 
is not necessary  for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the 
issue.
Mr D suggests he has paid too much interest  to Barclays.  I can see he has paid interest on 
both accounts  over the time period he complains about that is from August 2017 to date.  We 
asked Barclays to supply  us with the relevant account terms and conditions.  We also asked 
for copies  of the statements  for the accounts.  Looking at all of the information  I have got, on 
the face of it, Barclays has applied interest in line with how it said it would. By opening and 
operating his account Mr D agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions  of the accounts. 
As a starting point  therefore I think it is reasonable that Barclays be allowed to rely on them.
That said,  it appears that Mr D is suggesting  he wasnt told enough about how much he was 
being charged and how this was calculated. He also asked for details of transactions on the 
accounts. As far as I can see he was provided with monthly statements. That being the case, 
it is not clear why he is unable to see how much  interest he has been charged and how it 
has been calculated  and the account transactions. I say that because that information is in 
the statements.
Ive looked at Mr Ds letters  to Barclays of August 2017. It is not clear  why Barclays did not 
respond to him. It does  not appear  to have received the letters  although I have no reason to 
doubt they were  sent. I can well understand why Mr D is upset at not getting a response.  In 
Ref: DRN29257133those letters, amongst other things, he makes points about his payment  history and asks it to 
reduce the account balances. Ive thought about  whether Mr Ds situation  was made worse 
because he did not get a response at that point. 
It does not appear  from what  he told us that he was having money  troubles in 2017 at least. 
Rather he has told us he had a successful business  until 2018. In addition he told Barclays  
in November 2018 that, if it would waive some of what he owed, he would be in a position to 
clear the remaining balances on both accounts over 60 months. This also does not suggest 
that he was unable to make  substantial inroads into his balances.
Moreover, Mr D tells us he did provide details of his income and expenditure. He suggests 
that information may have been  misdirected  within  Barclays  perhaps  due to the mix up with 
his other  separate complaint. However,  I would  have expected to have seen some 
conversations noted about this, even if it was just Barclays noting that Mr D was chasing it 
because it hadnt  responded  when he had sent in that information. Mr Ds own letters during 
this period give a lot of detail about what he thinks  has gone  wrong  but he never mentions 
sending in his income and expenditure information and getting no acknowledgement  of this. 
Mr D is unsure of when he did send in that information. And even if Barclays had got that 
information, which on balance I dont think it did, it was not automatically obliged to agree to 
reduce his balances.  Further  he has had the benefit  of the spending, the interest relates  to 
that spending. 
In all the circumstances Barclays  wasnt obliged to waive some  of the interest and agree a 
repayment plan even if it had responded to his letters of August 2017. 
Mr D talks about the rules  relating to persistent debt.  It appears he may think they came into 
effect in 2017.  He suggests he lost out because those rules were  not applied  in 2017 to his 
accounts. But looking at the FCA website it says the rules came  into force on 1 March  2018 
and firms have 6 months, so until 1 September 2018, to be fully compliant. It follows  it is not 
fair and reasonable to suggest  Barclays needed to apply these rules sooner  than it did and 
certainly not in 2017. Those  rules  do not mean that Barclays must refund  interest  charged 
automatically. Looking  at those rules  Barclays  goodwill gesture goes further than the rules 
require. It follows I cant fairly and reasonably insist that Barclays  should take further steps in 
relation to this complaint point.
Barclays ought not to have  mixed  up this complaint with Mr Ds other complaint. It is 
understandable if Mr D is disappointed that this happened. Mr D appears to think  that there 
may be more to it than a simple mistake. I dont find that likely, Barclays  had nothing  to gain 
by deliberately mishandling his complaint. That said, I think  the £100  he has been offered 
covers what went  wrong here.
For all of these reasons, I dont agree I have any proper basis  to tell Barclays  it has to do 
more for Mr D in relation  to this complaint.
Im aware Mr D has a separate complaint about his data. I have not looked at that in this 
complaint.
I am also aware Mr D has asked about  notifications of interest rate increases that were sent 
to him. This appears to be a new matter and has not been considered by Barclays  in its final 
response to Mr D or investigated within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at 
this matter in this final decision.
Ref: DRN29257134my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
5 March 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2925713