K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car he is financing through an agreement  with FCE Bank Plc (FCE) 
is not of satisfactory  quality as its been  serviced incorrectly. He also complains that theyve 
not completed steering wheel repairs in good time.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used hybrid car in December  2016. He financed  the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with FCE. At the point of supply the car had completed just over 
6,000 miles and was about a year old.
Mr M complains about two issues. 
He says the dealership have confirmed that the services completed on the car since  he took 
receipt of it were not completed by suitably qualified hybrid trained technicians. He says that, 
as a result, the car is unsafe and could catch fire. Hed therefore like FCE to allow him to 
reject the car and terminate his finance  agreement.
He also says that he reported a damaged steering  wheel to the dealership  before  his 
warranty expired but they failed to repair the car and are now asking  him to pay for the 
repair, if he wants it completed, because the warranty has expired.
FCE said that whilst the technicians were qualified to complete general servicing they 
werent qualified  to review  the hybrid  components. They  said the service only required them  
to check if the high voltage pack wiring  was damaged, or whether there were any leaks. 
They offered  to have  the vehicle checked over at an alternative dealership where approved  
technicians worked  but as Mr M refused they didnt think they needed  to take any further 
action. They went on to explain that their responsibility was for the quality of the vehicle at 
the point of supply. They  said the servicing  issue was not related to the quality of the car 
when supplied and neither was the steering wheel fault. They said this fault had occurred 
subsequently and was therefore  not something  they were required to attend to.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator agreed with FCE. He didnt 
think there was evidence to suggest  the servicing would cause a fire and he was persuaded 
that whilst  Mr M had reported the damage  to the steering wheel earlier  he hadnt attended an 
arranged appointment and the warranty had now expired.
Mr M was disappointed  with the adjudicators  view so he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN28884132Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the steering wheel fault
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was around a year old and had travelled about 6,000 miles so I wouldnt expect  much, if 
anything to be wrong.
If I thought the car was faulty  when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCE to put this right. 
But FCEs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the case.
The steering  wheel  damage appears to have  been  highlighted to the dealership  in May 2018 
as Ive seen detail of the problem listed on a service sheet. I can see that Mr M has also 
suggested he referred it to the dealership earlier than this (perhaps  in August or September  
2017). Regardless  of which  date we take its clear the fault wasnt  reported in the first six 
months. So I think it would be reasonable to expect Mr M to prove the fault was there  when 
he took receipt of the vehicle. Ive not seen evidence of this so I think its most likely this 
problem happened  at some time after Mr M received the car. I note Mr M has now 
completed a high mileage  in the car and Im not therefore persuaded the fault with the 
steering wheel was most likely to have been present  at the point of supply. I think its most 
likely the damage  occurred at a later point and its not therefore FCEs responsibility to 
remedy the situation.
Ref: DRN28884133If Mr M has a complaint about  whether the dealership should have fixed the fault within the 
warranty period hell need to address that complaint to the dealership  and, if not resolved, 
refer his complaint  to the Motor Ombudsman.
the servicing 
The relevant  legislation  says FCE are responsible for the dealerships antecedent 
negotiations  those performed on their behalf  by the dealership  when setting up the finance  
agreement. But theyre not responsible for the actions of the dealership after that point. 
Mr M complains that the service completed  after he took receipt of the car was inadequate.  I 
dont think it would be fair to hold FCE liable for the dealerships servicing.  The finance 
agreement was for the provision of a car. I think the dealerships servicing is a separate  
issue and any complaint about  that servicing  would be best directed to the dealership, and 
thereafter, if not satisfactorily  resolved,  to the Motor  Ombudsman.
I dont think potentially inadequate servicing is a reason for FCE to terminate the contract. 
Theres no report that anything is wrong  with the car as a result  of this issue. So the car that 
is being financed  appears to be of an acceptable  standard and the contract  has not been  
breached.  
But even if Im wrong about that I dont think theres evidence here that Mr M has suffered 
any loss that he should be compensated for. I understand Mr Ms concerns  and have read 
the information he provided to support his argument but Im not persuaded that the actions  of 
the dealership  will have been  likely to have  rendered the car unsafe. And I understand 
theyve offered to have  the car serviced elsewhere by more  qualified technicians   I think  
thats a reasonable offer in the circumstances.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask FCE to take any further action  in relation to the 
servicing issue and I dont think theres evidence to suggest the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied.  Overall, Im not asking FCE to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2888413