K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Direct Line Car 
Insurance, has handled a claim under his motor insurance policy.
background
Following an accident, Mr Y made a claim on his car insurance policy.  His car was repaired 
in January 2019, but Mr Y was unhappy  with the standard of work.  The car went  back  in to 
UKIs approved repairer for things to be put right. To get more information about  the work 
that had been carried out, Mr Y says he asked  for a detailed  breakdown  of the repair costs 
and an engineers report. He says UKI didnt provide this. Mr Y has said he also wanted this 
information to get quotes  when his car insurance  was due for renewal. Because  he didnt 
have it, Mr Y says he had no choice but to renew  with UKI when other quotes may have 
been cheaper.
Mr Y complained to UKI in April 2019 about this and a lack of updates and communication  
on his claim against  the other driver and their claim against him. But no action was taken on 
this complaint. UKI accepted  that its service wasnt good enough and paid £100 
compensation. Mr Y made a further  complaint in June 2019, again about  not being  kept 
updated. UKI also upheld this complaint  and paid Mr Y a further £100 compensation.
Mr Y remained unhappy  and complained to this service. He said that UKI had sent him a 
summary of repair costs, not the detailed breakdown hed asked for. He wanted  the correct  
documents sent to him as well as compensation for the time spent sorting  out the repairs  to 
his car, dealing with his complaint and not being  given  the information  he needed when 
wanting to renew  his car insurance.
Our investigator agreed that UKI could have handled Mr Ys claim and complaints better. But 
he noted that Mr Y had received £200  compensation and felt this was appropriate  in the 
circumstances. Mr Y disagreed. He felt the compensation was insufficient for the time spent 
on the complaint  and for distress. Mr Y has also said he now wants to claim some  extra  
costs from UKI insurance he says were incurred as a result of the poor standard  of the 
repairs to his car. So, the case was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Y made two separate complaints to UKI. The first dated  from January 2019 when UKI 
failed to send  out the information about the extent of the repairs on his car that hed asked 
for. He made this complaint in April 2019,  but UKI didnt take any action.  It looks  from the call 
notes that Mr Y was unhappy about not receiving the detailed  invoice  hed requested and the 
lack of communication on his claim from and against the other driver. The complaint was 
eventually logged a few days later. 
Mr Y then complained to us in May 2019 about not receiving the invoice and the problems 
with the repairs  to his car. He also complained that UKI had committed  a data breach by 
sending documents  to him relating to another matter. 
Ref: DRN28791712Mr Y then made  a further complaint to UKI in June 2019 about the continued  lack of 
progress and updates about  the claim. It seems, as Ive said above,  UKI dealt with both 
these complaints separately and paid Mr Y £100 compensation in response  to each one.
Our investigator assumed Mr Y wanted  us to consider  both complaints together,  as, by 
August  when he provided his opinion  both complaints had been addressed by UKI. The 
investigator didnt  comment on the initial problem Mr Y had with the repairs  to his car or the 
data breach in his letter setting out his opinion  on the complaints. In the circumstances, Ive 
considered both Mr Ys complaints in this decision.   
Information about the repairs made to Mr Ys car
Mr Y originally asked UKI for a copy  of my repair invoice/engineer report. UKI sent a two-
page summary showing total amounts  for labour and materials.  But this wasnt  sent until 
some three months later when Mr Y complained.  Notwithstanding this delay, I can see why 
UKI thought it had given Mr Y the repair invoice he asked for. Mr Y then made it clear  to UKI 
that he wanted a full report, not just a summary.  UKI had the full engineers  report Mr Y 
wanted, but didnt send  it to him for data protection reasons. But I havent  seen any evidence  
that UKI told Mr Y about this. UKI has also told our investigator that the information Mr Y 
wanted is commercially  sensitive.
Our investigator agreed with UKI that a redacted  version of the full report  could be sent to 
Mr Y, who has since confirmed that it contains the information he wants.  I think its 
reasonable that Mr Y wanted the information contained in the full report. That said, I also 
think its reasonable that UKI wouldnt want to send  the full report to Mr Y because of data 
protection issues and commercial sensitivity. But it could have sent him a redacted version 
and I think Mr Y has suffered some  inconvenience  as a result of it not doing this.
I can see how the misunderstanding about the information Mr Y wanted came about. UKI 
thought Mr Y was asking  for a receipt invoice, which its two-page  summary provided. But I 
think UKI could have done  more once it became clear that Mr Y wanted more  than a 
summary. I think  UKI could  have  explained  to Mr Y why it couldnt send him the full report. 
And  as Ive said  it could have found  a way of giving Mr Y what he wanted without 
revealing commercially sensitive information. 
Data breach
Mr Y has complained that UKI has committed a data breach; it sent him documents related 
to another case when  it got in touch  about  his own complaint.  If he hasnt already done so, 
Mr Y can report this to the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO). The telephone number 
for the ICO is 0303 123 1113  and its website is at https://ico.org.uk/.
Problems with the original  repairs to Mr Ys car
Mr Y says that there  were problems with the original repair  to his car, one of which  
concerned the paint.  Mr Y suspects this is due to primer  not being used prior to the bumper 
being painted. The car was returned  to the garage  and Mr Y confirmed in November  2019  
that this fault had been resolved. When he received the full report hed asked for, Mr Y says 
hes identified other problems with the original repair, including the air conditioning and front 
fog lights. UKI has confirmed it hasnt  received  a complaint about  these  additional problems. 
So, Mr Y has the option of submitting  a complaint  about this to UKI, should he wish to do so. 
Because UKI hasnt yet had the chance to investigate  Mr Ys complaint about  the original 
Ref: DRN28791713repair, I havent dealt  with it in this decision. Ill leave it to Mr Y to decide  if wants to submit a 
complaint to UKI.
Mr Ys concerns about the cost of renewing his car insurance
Mr Y says he needed the detail of the repair costs to get quotes for car insurance. Because  
he says he didnt have  these costs, he says he missed the opportunity  to take out cheaper  
cover with a different insurance company. In order to get an idea of potential  quotes from 
other insurers he estimated the cost of the claim. Its on this basis that Mr Y feels  he could 
have got cheaper  insurance than from UKI. I can understand  Mr Y would want to give full 
and truthful information  to potential insurers, but I dont find his argument persuasive. Im not 
convinced that the full details of the repair  costs  would be needed  to obtain an insurance  
quote. Instead, I think the total cost (not the detailed costs) would be needed for an 
insurance quote. I think this total cost could have  been obtained by contacting  UKI and 
asking for it. And Ive not seen  any evidence  about what information  Mr Y used  to come up 
with his estimated  costs.  
I also considered if UKI could have helped Mr Y by providing the total cost of the claim. But 
in his original  email to UKI, Mr Y asked  for a copy of the repair invoice/engineer report  to 
confirm works that were  carried out. So it wouldnt  have been clear  to UKI that Mr Y also 
wanted this as he was considering options for renewing his insurance. So UKI couldnt have 
known it could help him out by providing the total cost of the claim.
In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to hold UKI responsible  if Mr Y wasnt  able 
to obtain insurance  at a lower premium when  Mr Y could have called and asked  for the 
information he needed and UKI werent  aware that Mr Y was considering options for 
renewing his car insurance
I can understand that Mr Y would have become frustrated with the delays in getting the 
information he wanted from UKI and in having to return his car to the garage.  And Ive seen 
evidence that Mr Y has had to chase UKI for updates to his claim and to ask for the full 
report. So, I accept  Mr Y has suffered some distress  and inconvenience. Ive noted UKI has 
paid £200 compensation  to Mr Y for this. And, taking everything  into account, I think  this 
amount of compensation is fair and reasonable. Im conscious Mr Y feels strongly about this 
issue, but I dont  think  its appropriate for me to make UKI to pay more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that the £200 already paid by UKI to Mr Y 
for distress and inconvenience  as a result of the issues Ive mentioned  above  is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879171