K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1999, 2002  
and 2004 to protect a mortgage and further  borrowing.  Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC 
trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester PLC (C&G)  mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
C&G had to make Mr and Mrs D aware  the PPI policies  were optional and gain their consent  
before adding them to their mortgage. I cant be sure what was said at the time the policies 
were sold but C&G have  sent us a copy of the available paper work.
Within the mortgage application completed  in 1999 and the application  for further  borrowing 
in 2002 a boxes were  ticked confirming that Mr and Mrs D had completed  separate forms to 
take PPI. The applications have also been signed  by Mr and Mrs D. For the sale of PPI in 
2004 C&G has provided a copy of a separate  PPI application form completed  and signed  by 
Mr and Mrs D.
With the above in mind  I think C&G  made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out 
the PPI policies and they chose to take them out  although I can understand why they may 
not remember this.
C&G recommended the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that they were right 
for them. Mr and Mrs D have  told us they were  entitled to sick pay. They also had some 
savings and other insurance  when they took the policies. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to, and for longer than Mr and Mrs D would have been entitled to full pay. The PPI 
would also have allowed Mr and Mrs D to keep their savings in place to be used towards 
other expenses, and covered circumstances  that their other insurance wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time they took each  policy, 
they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to 
have had a need for the cover. So I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the policies  so it looks like they wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like the PPI would have  been useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But C&G has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:
Ref: DRN20468072C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because C&G didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.
To put that right, C&G has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said  including what they have said about  
not being able to make a claim in 2016,  but the evidence available shows  the PPI was 
cancelled before this date, and I havent seen evidence that shows otherwise.  So these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2046807