K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a personal 
loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  sold the regular premium  PPI in 2001 at the same  time as they arranged 
the loan over the phone.  Although the loan was in joint names, the PPI was set up to cover  
only Mr B.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. BoS disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS hasnt been able to provide  a copy of the call recording for the sale or a copy  of the 
sales script that would  have been  in use at the time. So its impossible to say how the policy 
was presented during the call.
BoS has provided a copy of the credit agreement  that was sent out to Mr and Mrs B 
following the call. This sets out the details of the loan and has a section for PPI. Within  this 
section there  is the option to select or decline the policy. And there  is a pre-printed X in the 
yes box to agree to the PPI.
Its possible that this pre-printed X represents  what Mr and Mrs B agreed to during the call. 
But I cant say this is most likely to have been  the case, given that I dont have  any evidence 
of how the policy was presented during the call or what was actually discussed.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs B would have understood 
that they had a choice about taking out the policy.  It is possible they were under the 
impression that they had to have the PPI alongside  the loan  and the paperwork sent out to 
them afterwards doesnt do enough to correct  any impression that the policy  wasnt  optional.
Normally I would go on to consider other aspects of the sale,  but not presenting the policy  as 
optional is such a fundamental  failing  that it is enough on its own for me to uphold  the 
complaint.
 
Ref: DRN21140002putting things right
BoS should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and BoS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  BoS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give Mr 
and Mrs B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2114000