K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy with how J D Williams & Company Limited have managed  his account and 
the level of customer  service provided.
background 
Mr H has an account with Simply Be, which is provided by J D Williams. He opened his 
account in 2013 and has used it on and off over the last few years.  In the last year or so, 
Mr H has been in touch  with J D Williams regularly  he says they send  him statements 
online, but hes not always able to access them and despite his repeated  requests, they 
wont post the statements to him. He says that on occasions the postal  statements  have  
arrived, they havent been on time so his subsequent payment has been late. Hes unhappy 
as this attracts a charge  of £12 each time and has caused his balance  to rise. He also feels  
J D Williams have been harassing him electronically  and that their overdue  payment chaser  
letters are rude and incorrect.
Mr H complained to J D Williams  but they said they were  issuing statements by post. So 
they didnt agree they were doing anything wrong by applying the charges when payments 
werent received.  Mr H disagreed and wrote  back  on various occasions  he was 
disappointed not to hear back from their CEO despite writing  to him and sending  a cheque 
which he thought  would  clear his balance.  Mr H told J D Williams  he would be charging  them  
£12 each time they communicated with him online or each time he had to contact them.  
As things  werent  resolved, Mr H asked for our help. His concerns were looked into by one of 
our investigators  she said she could see statements had been posted to him but even if he 
hadnt received  them,  he ought  to have known he had an outstanding balance to clear. She 
also thought that he could  have  called to see how much he had to pay or set up a direct  
debit. She added that the act of cashing  the cheque didnt constitute  J D Williams  
agreement to write off the remainder balance and so this was still due. She did however  
agree that hed asked J D Williams to remove his email address from their systems but this 
hadnt been done, so she asked them to compensate him with £50 to apologise for this. 
Mr H disagreed. He said hed spent two years  trying to get J D Williams to stop texting and 
emailing him when his statements were  due. And that he doubted  statements were  sent in 
the post as he hadnt had any trouble receiving his other mail. He also didnt think it was fair 
for him to be expected to call J D Williams to enquire about his balance  as he may have to 
wait on hold, and he was wary  of setting up a direct  debit too. He was disappointed with the 
customer service  hed received, especially as the CEO hadnt replied to him. And he 
remained of the view that the encashment of his cheque  settled the whole balance. So his 
concerns were passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr H but I agree with what  our investigator said, for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN23192722J D Williams have been able to show us that theyve issued  a statement to Mr H every 
28 days  just as the original credit agreement said they would. Theyve  also shown us that 
their systems are set up to post the statement to Mr H, and that he hasnt opted in to online 
statements. So, given theyve always had the same address on file for Mr H as we do, I think  
J D Williams have done what  they needed to do by sending statements  to Mr H when they 
said they would.  
Whilst I appreciate that Mr H says he either doesnt receive these, or that they arrive late  
both leading to the £12 charge  I have seen that Mr H has previously received 
correspondence from J D Williams as he returned post to them in summer and autumn of 
last year.  At least a couple of those have been  statements which  clearly  explained  the 
minimum payment due and by which date  always being around three weeks  later. So I 
cant agree  with Mr H that J D Williams either havent sent out his statements or have done 
so too late. 
Despite there having been occasions  where a statement hasnt  arrived, Mr H has had this 
account and has run a balance  on it for over six years,  so I feel he ought to know  that he 
owed J D Williams some money each month  especially seeing as he was getting emails  
and texts to remind  him too. While I appreciate  calling a company can sometimes  come  with 
inconveniences such as hold times  during busy periods, that option was always  open to him 
and so he could  have called J D Williams to check what was due. As our investigator said,  
he could also have  set up a direct debit to meet the minimum monthly amount due. So even 
if statements  werent received, I dont  think Mr H was prevented from keeping on top of his 
account given  the options available  to him. 
Considering the charges applied, I see that when Mr H signed the credit agreement in 2013 
he agreed to the term that said [if] you fail to make a payment and we or someone  acting  for 
us have to remind  you, you will be charged a reasonable  administration  fee  currently  
£12. I also notice that Mr Hs account  has been  attracting such charges sporadically since  
2013  44 charges in total.  So this is something  he ought to have  been  aware  of for some 
time, and could have  managed accordingly.
I see Mr H has been applying his own charges  against J D Williams  and reducing his 
balance accordingly.  But I agree  with J D Williams that this is not how the agreement  
between both parties works. Mr H agreed to the charges J D Williams apply when he opened 
his account and now cannot  apply  his own reverse charge  no agreement for this exists 
between him and J D Williams. I see J D Williams have now sold the debt onto another 
company to collect, so I suggest Mr H takes steps  to settle this amicably with them. 
I note Mr H asked J D Williams to remove his email address but they hadnt done  so  so I 
agree with our investigator that they made an error  here and as she suggested, £50 would 
be a fair sum to compensate him. I also note Mr H has asked for his mobile number to be 
removed too, so that he doesnt get text notifications, so if that hasnt yet been done Id 
expect J D Williams to do that now.
I realise Mr H will probably  feel let down by my decision, as its not the outcome he wanted. 
But from all that I have  seen, J D Williams  have  not made an error. If Mr H is experiencing 
financial problems with regards to this debt, he may find it helpful to get some  help from a 
free source of money advice. We can provide  more  information about  that if he would like it. 
Ref: DRN23192723my final decision
My final decision is that J D Williams & Company Limited should settle this complaint as they 
have agreed to do, by compensating Mr H with £50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2319272