K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham  Midshires 
(Birmingham Midshires)  acted unfairly  when  dealing  with his mortgage  account and the 
repossession of his property and undervalued  it. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr P had a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. He got into arrears and the property was 
repossessed in 2012. The property  was then sold. Mr P was unhappy  about  the process and 
the sale price obtained;  he said that the property was sold for too little and had been 
undervalued. Mr P believed that the property  was worth over £1 million.  
Birmingham Midshires said that the property was valued by valuers at £775,000  and 
£785,000.00, and it was advised to market  the property for £800,000 and £799,950. It said 
that the property  eventually  sold for £905,000.
Mr P also was unhappy that he wasnt able to get the property back. He said that hed been 
told by a lawyer and Birmingham Midshires that if he could prove he had enough to pay for 
six months, hed be allowed to have the property back. Birmingham Midshires  said that Mr P 
didnt have the money to clear the arrears, despite  being  given  time.  By the time he asked 
for the property to be returned on 30 January 2013,  it was too late. 
Birmingham Midshires wrote to Mr P in February 2019 to inform him that it was going  to 
refund to him some  fees which  were applied to his mortgage account. Birmingham Midshires 
said that the fees were refunded as it felt, following a review by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA),  that theyd  been charged inappropriately as the fees made matters worse. 
It was willing  to pay for any bank charges incurred by Mr P due to the inappropriate fees and 
Mr P said it had estimated  £462  was due as he no longer had the relevant bank statements. 
Mr P said that the fee refund showed that Birmingham  Midshires didnt manage his 
mortgage account properly.
Mr P complained to us. He sent an email  from an estate agent,  who before the repossession  
had suggested  that the property was worth  £950,000 without viewing it. The estate agent 
stated that marketing the property at £800,000 seemed low but as it didnt inspect the 
property at the time, it couldnt provide a fair market appraisal of its value at the time of sale. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded  that what the other estate agent had said meant 
Birmingham Midshires had done  something wrong.
The investigators view was that Birmingham Midshires wasnt at fault. He noted  that 
Birmingham Midshires obtained two valuations, and said it acted fairly and reasonably in 
relying on valuations  from professionals  and in accepting an offer which exceeded  the 
highest valuation.  And he didnt think Birmingham  Midshires acted unfairly  or unreasonably 
in refusing to return the property to Mr P  hed been  given time to raise money. The 
investigator said that if fees were charged in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, they didnt have  to be refunded, and he thought the fees had been correctly 
charged at the time. The refund was due to a FCA review, but it didnt mean 
Birmingham Midshires was at fault.
Mr P disagreed. He said that Birmingham Midshires had lied about several issues and had 
sold the property  for too little. Mr P said he was never asked if he had the money to pay the 
arrears.
Ref: DRN24119012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only going to consider the complaints 
brought originally  to this service which is about the sale price  of the property, the refusal to 
return the property  to Mr P and whether  the refund of fees showed that 
Birmingham Midshires didnt administer the account properly. I wont look at the amount it 
has refunded to Mr P as that wasnt part of his complaint and the business hasnt had the 
opportunity to investigate.
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulties fairly, and being in mortgage  
arrears in my view is the position  of someone  in financial difficulties. When dealing  with the 
repossession of a property, lenders  must act reasonably  in order to try to get the best market 
price, but theyre  able to rely on professional  advice.  
In Mr Ps case, I can see from the evidence available to me that Birmingham Midshires  
followed the standard industry practice  and took advice from two professional  valuers 
suitably qualified to assess the property. Its fair and reasonable to follow that advice.
I note that the valuations  given were for slightly less than the recommended marketing price,  
which is normal. They also set out the condition and location of the property, and took that 
into account when  advising  about its value. The property was marketed in light of that advice  
and I note the offer accepted was for more than the professionals had advised the property 
was worth.  I cant say that Birmingham Midshires undervalued the property or failed to act 
reasonably to get the best value. 
I note that the email  Mr P has provided from another estate agent doesnt confirm that the 
property was undervalued; I would also make  the point that the lender isnt responsible  for 
the professional  advice  it receives. And ultimately,  a property  is only worth what  someone is 
willing to pay for it  no-one offered  £1 million  for Mr Ps property. The fees refunded to Mr P 
are irrelevant to the issue about the sale price  of the property; they dont show Birmingham 
Midshires failed to take reasonable steps  to get the best price possible.
Mr P complained that Birmingham Midshires failed to return the property to him after it 
gained possession. Ive seen the policy of the lender about this, and its clear that a property 
will only be returned if the arrears and costs are paid and theres  evidence  that the mortgage 
will be paid in the future as the borrowers circumstances have changed.  Money has to be 
paid before the keys are returned.  The policy also says if the property has been returned 
before or exchange of contracts to sell is imminent, the property wont be returned. The 
policy also covers other  issues.
I can see from the evidence available to me, particularly the contact notes written at the time 
(on which I will place weight as they were contemporaneous) that Birmingham Midshires  and 
Mr P talked about clearing  the arrears and the return of the property. Mr P told 
Birmingham Midshires on 28 September 2012 that he was waiting for his commission  and 
that he now had a full time job. He said that he would clear the arrears  in full on 
10 October 2012 but he didnt do so. On 12 December 2012,  Mr P told Birmingham 
Midshires that he was still trying to clear  the arrears. He knew  that the property would be put 
on the market but the notes show that he was told if he was in a position  to clear the arrears, 
he should contact  the lender so it could  consider  whether to return  the property.  
Ref: DRN24119013But by the time Mr P was ready to ask for the property to be returned in late January 2013,  
the sale process had already commenced at this stage. Whether Mr P had enough to clear  
the arrears had become irrelevant due to how much time had passed and the proposed sale.  
Birmingham Midshires didnt do anything wrong as it gave Mr P time to raise money. It 
applied its policy fairly and reasonably. Theres no evidence that Mr P was told he could 
make six months payments and get the property back, or anything  to that effect,  and I note 
that isnt what Birmingham Midshires policy says. I think its unlikely this was said in light of 
the contact notes.
Turning to the issue of the refunded fees, the evidence shows  that the fees were refunded 
due to a FCA review. This isnt evidence that the whole mortgage  was wrongly administered,  
but rather that while legally the fees were  due, the FCA asked lenders to review  their 
practices and refund  fees charged  when they made matters worse.  The lender has done this 
in Mr Ps case. I cant say this is unfair  or unreasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2411901