K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) recorded the wrong information about 
her motor insurance policy, causing  a problem for her two years later.
background
In 2017 Ms Ms car was slightly  damaged in a car park in her absence. She called UKI to 
report the incident, but said she may not make a claim as she wanted to check how much  it 
would cost to repair  the damage first. Ms M rang UKI the next day to say she wasnt  going to 
make a claim as the repair would  cost less than the policy excess.
In 2019 Ms Ms friend added Ms M to her policy as a named driver. But a few days  later the 
insurer said it had found a record of a claim made by Ms M. It said Ms M could  be taken off 
the policy for a small charge, or Ms Ms friend  could change insurer, which would cost £25.  
Ms M complained to UKI that she hadnt  made a claim and wanted the record to be deleted.  
UKI said it had checked the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE), a central database  
of incidents reported to insurance companies.  It said the incident Ms M reported had been 
recorded accurately.  It showed that no payment had been made and that Ms Ms no claims  
discount (NCD) wasnt affected.  UKI said it was required to record  the information and 
wasnt able to remove it.
One of our investigators  reviewed Ms Ms complaint. He said insurers had a duty to record 
all incidents on CUE. In his view UKI had done  so correctly, despite the fact that Ms M didnt 
know about it. He said insurers differ in the way they view CUE records  and that it was open 
to Ms Ms friend to complain to her insurer about  its decision.
Ms M said it wasnt  right for an insurer to add a non-claim to a record. She thought  the 
details recorded  couldnt have been  accurate or the other insurer  wouldnt have thought  
there had been  a claim. She said she wanted  an apology from UKI, not compensation.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers do have a duty to add a record of all incidents they are made aware  of on the CUE 
database. They also have  a duty to ensure  the record is correct. 
In this case, UKI recorded that a claim was closed after one day and that it had paid out 
nothing. The record also shows that the NCD was allowed.  We think any insurer  looking at a 
CUE record should view it as a whole. UKI correctly passed on to CUE  the fact that there 
were no costs attached  to the claim  which was open for only one day - and that there was 
no loss of NCD. I think insurers  would  normally interpret  that as a policy holder having 
reported an incident only. 
Some insurers take incidents into account, even  if there are no costs  involved, but others  
dont. So its possible the insurer of Ms Ms friends  car did. As the investigator suggested, 
Ref: DRN23998172its open to Ms Ms friend to query the decision that insurer made. But as I dont think  UKI did 
anything wrong  in recording the claim in the way it did I cant  uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399817