K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited turned down  a claim he 
made on his bike insurance  policy. 
background 
Mr L has bike insurance with Red Sands which  provides cover in the event of theft.  In 
August 2018 he made a claim as his bike had been  stolen. Red Sands turned down the 
claim because  it said his bike had been stolen from a communal storage area in the block of 
flats where Mr L lived. It didnt think the communal area met the definition  of Your  Home set 
out in the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  agree. She didnt think the policy made  it clear  that keeping  a bike in a 
secure storage  area in the way Mr L had done wouldnt be covered by the policy  and thought 
the claim should be paid. She also recommended Red Sands pay £100  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  hed been  caused.  
Red Sands  didnt agree. It said the investigator had applied the wrong definition from the 
policy; shed referred  to a hall of residence when Mr L lived in a block  of flats. And it thought 
the definition of Your Home had been  made clear to him when he took out the policy.  It 
didnt believe the communal storage facility met what was required by the policy terms and 
so didnt think it had done anything wrong in turning down the claim Mr L made. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Ive looked first at what the terms of Mr Ls policy say. It says it doesnt cover theft from 
Your Home  where Your Bicycle  and/or  Accessories  is stored outside. And the policy 
provides a definition of Your Home.  It says: 
Your Home means the location, as stated  on Your Schedule, where  Your  Bicycle  is normally  
kept and meets the requirements of one of the following;  
a brick, concrete  or stone house of standard construction  with a slate, tiled or multi  
layered roof; 
a self-contained  flat within  a brick,  concrete or stone building  of standard  construction 
with a slate, tiled or multi layered roof; 
a self-contained  lockable  private room in the halls of residence  in which You reside. 
a privately accessed, fully enclosed, outbuilding or garage built of brick,  concrete or 
stone and roofed with slate, tiles or multi layered  roof; attached to or within  the 
boundaries of a private house  securely  locked by a minimum of a 5 lever Mortice  or 
Chubb deadlock  to BS3621 standard or a CEN  Grade 3 closed shackle padlock and 
have securely locked windows. 
a privately accessed and securely locked wooden shed, within the secured 
boundaries of Your primary residence provided  Your Bicycle is secured therein to an 
Immovable Object through the frame  and any quick release wheels with an Approved 
Lock. 
any temporary residence such as a holiday  cottage/home, guesthouse, hotel or like 
for a maximum period of 30 days during the Period of Insurance,  providing the area 
of the temporary  residence You inhabit is self-contained and secured to same  
standard as Your  primary residence.  
Ref: DRN23807742Mr L lives in a residential development which contains a number of flats. Its not in dispute he 
wasnt keeping his bike in his own flat but in a communal cycle store within  that 
development. And I agree with Red Sands his block isnt a hall of residence (which  would 
more likely apply if he was a university  student). 
So Ive thought about whether the communal store could reasonably be said to meet any 
other part of the definition  of Your Home. I think the only one it might meet  is point four; a 
privately accessed and fully enclosed garage. Red Sands has argued it doesnt  because it 
wasnt privately accessed  by you. It says this is enshrined in the policy  wording. 
However, I dont think that is what the policy says. It refers to a privately accessed, fully 
enclosed outbuilding  or garage. I think the cycle store could reasonably  be regarded as 
being within a privately accessed and fully enclosed garage.  But its clearly located within a 
block of flats. So I dont  think it meets the rest of that definition which refers to the garage 
being attached to or within the boundaries of a private house. And I dont think it would 
meet any of the other  parts of the definition of Your Home
But that isnt the only issue here. The relevant  rules  say a firm must  provide appropriate 
information to a customer about a policy so they can make  an informed decision about 
whether to take it out. And that should  include information about the significant benefits, 
exclusions and limitations of the policy. I think a significant exclusion or limitation  is one that 
would tend to affect  the decision of customers generally to buy a policy. 
In this case the policy Mr L took out was aimed specifically at cyclists. I think what the policy 
would cover in the event  of theft from the home  and the main requirements a policyholder  
would need to meet in relation to this - are something that would reasonably affect a decision 
on whether to take out the policy and so should have been made clear to Mr L. 
Red Sands  believes  it did this but I dont agree. The policy  summary says theft from Your 
Home is only covered if there is proven forcible  or violent  entry  but doesnt provide any 
information about the definition of Your Home. I appreciate  more  information is contained in 
the policy terms but Mr L would only have been  able to understand this, and what it meant  in 
relation to theft, by cross referencing the definition of Your  Home  on page nine of the main  
policy document with the theft exclusion on page  eleven. 
I dont think that did enough to make  this clear. I think Red Sands could easily  have 
explained in the policy summary  that leaving a bike in a communal storage simply wasnt  
something the policy covered. And if it had done  so I think  its likely Mr L would either have 
taken steps to comply  with the policy terms or would have taken out a policy  that did provide 
cover for the storage  he was using.  
I also note Mr L does  appear to have  taken reasonable  steps  to keep his bike secure. From 
the evidence Ive seen his bike was secured  to a metal bike rack within  a locked cage which 
was itself within a private  car park accessed with a key fob and secured externally with a 
metal roller door. So if the position  had been made clear to him I think hed have been 
covered for the claim he subsequently  made.
As a result I dont think its fair of Red Sands to have  turned down this claim. So it will need 
to pay it subject to the remaining policy terms. I also agree with our investigator that it should 
pay Mr L £100 to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience  hes been caused  by 
what it got wrong here. 
Ref: DRN23807743responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  said it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr L didnt provide any further  
comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Red Sands agreed with what I said and Mr L hasnt responded I dont have any reason to 
change what I set out in my provisional  decision.  
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
will need  to pay the claim Mr L made  in line with the remaining  policy terms. And it will also 
need to pay Mr L £100 to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380774