K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2002 and 2009. Mrs R says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
The PPI policies were  taken out in 2002  with a mortgage and in 2009 with some  further  
lending. The policies were  designed to cover  Mrs R in the event that she couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why:
I think Lloyds made  it clear Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why she cant remember this.
2002 sale
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage agreement. On it theres a section  for PPI and it says to 
either tick a box to buy PPI, or theres  another box to decline it. I can see theres a tick in the 
box to buy the cover,  and the box to decline the policy  was, in my opinion, equally  
noticeable. So I think it likely Mrs R knew she didnt have to buy PPI.
Ive also seen a copy of a separate application  form specifically  for the PPI. I can see this 
has been completed and signed by Mrs R. So I think she agreed to buy the cover at the 
time.
2009 sale
As with the 2002 sale, Ive seen an application  form for the PPI that was completed and 
signed by Mrs R. Ive also seen the mortgage agreement. This has a section specifically for 
PPI that confirms Mrs R had bought a policy. And it says that the cover was optional and she 
didnt need to buy it in order to get the mortgage. So again, I think  Mrs R would have known 
she didnt have to buy a PPI policy if she didnt want one, and I think she agreed to take it 
out.
both sales
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check  the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN27016062Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  before Mrs R took out a further  advance  in 2008. It 
has now agreed to pay back any commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium after Mrs R took out a further  advance - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said - including  what she has said about  having 
good employment cover so she didnt have a need for the policy. And that she wasnt  given 
any information about the monthly cost of the cover. But these points dont change my 
decision.
I say this because  these PPI policies would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs R 
might have got. Mrs R has said she would have only received  half of her pay after shed 
been off sick for a while, so I think the PPI could have been  useful to her if shed have been 
off work for an extended period of time. The PPI would also paid out on top of any sick pay 
she might  have been entitled  to.
For the sale that took place on 2002,  it isnt clear how the cost of the PPI was presented  to 
Mrs R. So theres a possibility the monthly  cost of the cover could have been clearer. But 
even if the cost wasnt clear, I still think Mrs R would have bought  the cover. I say this 
because the consequences of Mrs R defaulting on a debt secured against her home  could 
have been serious.  And given the cover was designed to protect what  I presume was one of 
her most valuable assets, her home, I think she could  have  found  the policy useful should 
she have fallen on difficult times. 
Ref: DRN27016063my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2701606