K820x#14complaint
Mr S, through his representatives,  complains about  the advice he was given by Fairway 
Financial Consultancy in relation to transferring his personal pension into a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  
Mr Ss intention  was to invest these funds  into overseas property with Harlequin Property 
(Harlequin) which is an unregulated investment. He says Fairway didnt assess the suitability 
and risks of this investment. The Harlequin  investment  failed and Mr S wants  to be 
compensated for his financial losses.
background 
Fairway told us that they were introduced to Mr S by a sales agent for Harlequin  in July 
2011. They  were  asked to help a limited number of clients establish a SIPP to buy Harlequin 
properties using  their pensions. There were two individuals who were involved in the sale of 
the Harlequin property,  Mr D and Mr N. 
Mr S says he was introduced to Mr N by a previous financial adviser  -who  was looking to 
arrange mortgage for him- and told him about  a pension investment that Mr N was selling 
which looked great  and it might  be worth having  a chat with him. In April 2011  Mr D and 
Mr N arranged for Mr S to invest two of his pensions worth  around £13,000 into a high-risk 
investment (Ark). Mr Ss largest personal  pension with Aviva  was originally planned to go 
into the Ark investment  too. Mr S signed a transfer application form for his Aviva pension on 
31 March 2011  and agreed  to the release of his Aviva  funds  in May 2011. 
Its unclear why the plan for the Aviva pension  changed,  however this pension was 
eventually used to fund the Harlequin  investment instead. Mr S says Mr N told him that the 
Harlequin transaction was less straightforward, and he wasnt qualified to give advice on 
this. So he introduced Mr S to Fairway. 
On 20 July 2011 Mr S signed a range of documents. I understand that Mr S completed  them  
with Mr N. 
This included a confidential financial review  which recorded that Mr S:
was aged  47 and intended to retire at age 66;
he was single and no dependent  children
was self-employed  with a gross income  of £80,000. The form, however, also stated 
that present  income was zero. Mr S had recently taken on a local authority contract 
and was waiting  for payment and was currently living on savings and bank overdraft. 
£80,000 was the estimated annual income when payments commenced.
had a main residence and a second  property  valued  combined at £940,000 with 
outstanding mortgages  of £560,000. 
had a current account balance of £20,000  and a cash ISA worth £7,000.
had credit card debt of £1,200 and an overdraft  balance of £5,000. 
A SIPP application form was also completed. This recorded that:
Mr S had a personal pension with Aviva with an estimated  value of £94,000  which 
was to be transferred  into the SIPP 
Fairway was the financial  adviser
Ref: DRN20972402the introducer was Mr D 
the SIPP was to be used to buy a Harlequin  property
A Harlequin  Property  Questionnaire showed  that:
Mr S was looking to buy a hotel room  for £270,000. £81,000 would be financed  
through the SIPP  and the property would be bought jointly  with an Limited  Liability 
Partnership in Mr Ss name.
An Appropriateness Test for Harlequin was completed. This confirmed that Mr S:
had not received advice about Harlequin and was an execution only customer; 
had decided to invest based on information from the investment provider;
was comfortable  with the risks involved with the investment; that there  was no 
guarantee higher risks would lead to higher rewards and that he might get less back  
than he invested
understood the investment might  be difficult to sell which  could affect taking benefits 
in retirement
understood he was not covered by the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS), or this Service;
had read and understood the terms and conditions of the investment.
Fairway say they were asked to establish the SIPP on an execution  only basis  and were 
offered a flat fee of £1,000 to do this. They say they didnt receive any commission  from the 
Harlequin investment  and they didnt recommend this investment to Mr S. They  say in the 
interest of the customer, they decided  to not only provide  an execution-only service but 
advise on the transfer of pension benefits to a SIPP.
Fairway wrote to Mr S on 26 July 2011.  Fairway says this was the first time they dealt with 
him. The letter explained that they had received documentation from Mr D about  Mr Ss 
request to establish  a SIPP with Guardian, but that they would need to request information  
from his pension provider  first. They understood that the funds were  to be invested in an 
overseas property development. They stressed that they were unable to provide any advice 
in relation to this particular aspect of his plans. They said our advice would be limited  to the 
specific issue of whether establishment of a Self Invested Personal Pension Plan and 
transfer of benefits  to such a scheme  are appropriate, based  on your financial objectives. 
The letter also explained  that they would charge a £1,000 administration fee for their 
services.
Fairway provided a handwritten call note to show  that they spoke with Mr S on 2 August. The 
note shows that they asked  Mr S for his authority to allow them to make enquiries  with Aviva.  
They also told him that they had been  informed by Mr D about  his previous investment and 
that they considered this to be high-risk pension contract. They stressed  that Fairway would 
class Harlequin  of a similar nature.
On 1 September 2011 Fairway wrote to Mr S again  and said they couldnt  provide specific 
advice in relation  to the proposed investment in Harlequin, however they suggested that 
investing in one particular investment of this nature  should be classed as a high-risk 
investment approach. 
They explained that Mr Ss personal pension with Aviva was invested in a number of 
external investment funds and they would class his existing investment approach to be of a 
Ref: DRN20972403higher risk investment  nature. Fairway  said they would class the Harlequin investment as 
highly speculative and Mr S should  be aware  that there was the potential to lose his entire  
investment within  his pension in the worst possible scenario. 
They said other options would be to stay in his personal pension  which  offered a wide range 
of funds or move to another personal pension  provider, however these options wouldnt 
allow Mr Ss investment plans. So Fairway concentrated their research on providers who 
could assist with his requirements  and selected  Guardian as an appropriate  SIPP provider 
as it could facilitate  Mr Ss objectives.
Fairway said:  we are happy to recommend your existing benefits be transferred from your 
Aviva scheme to the Harlequin Self Invested Personal Pension  arrangement.
Fairway pointed out that Mr S would  be significantly  increasing the investment risk nature of 
this element of his savings and that he shouldnt proceed unless he was prepared to take a 
speculative investment approach with his pension. Fairway informed Mr S they had 
forwarded his documents  to Guardian  to open  the SIPP, but that there was a 30 day cooling  
off period if Mr S decided  not to proceed.
Fairway also pointed to an Attitude to Risk document which  they enclosed  with the letter  and 
which they said highlighted  a number of issues with the investment Mr S should consider 
before completing  the Harlequin  investment. They said the issues  highlighted
were not a definitive list and they recommended that Mr S satisfied himself  that he fully
understood the nature of any proposed  investment  before  committing his retirement
provisions.
Page 1-3 of the document seem to have been previously completed with Mr S on 20 July 
2011 (before he was introduced to Fairway). It showed Mr S as a customer with the highest 
risk profile and noted Mr S:
could afford to lose a large proportion of money without his security  being affected
was prepared to accept a very high degree  of risk
his earning capacity is such that he could absorb this risk
was prepared to invest  for the long term and didnt require access  to his money in the 
medium to long term 
accepted the risk of losing most or all of his money
Page 4 included  some  additional guidance from Fairway on their analysis of the investment 
prospects of Harlequin  which  Mr S was recommended to consider in detail before 
completing his purchase of the property. It said (amongst other things):
By investing his entire fund within one specific investment  sector and gearing the 
advance to include a significant proportion of borrowing Mr S was taking a high risk / 
high possible reward investment stance.
Risks involved include the risk that demand  for this type of rental accommodation 
may fall due to factors such  as economic  recession, geographical  influences, 
exchange rate fluctuation and the nature of the loan facility  agreed and terms and 
conditions of the advance as well as political  risk.
Fairways  enquiries had established that from an HMRC perspective Harlequin  could 
be classified as an acceptable investment for a SIPP. But this did not guarantee it 
Ref: DRN20972404was suitable for individual investors or that it would achieve positive returns. Each  
investor should consider the appropriateness of this investment based on their 
individual circumstances  and investment  objectives.
Fairway said that they werent overseas property specialists and werent  in a position 
to confirm the potential investment returns.  This is why they couldnt make  a specific 
recommendation on the individual investment  Mr S wanted  to make. They  stressed 
that any investment  of this nature should  be considered high risk and as a result 
could result in the loss of Mr Ss savings.
Fairway was aware that Mr Ss scheme  was also invested  in a high-risk  manner. 
They also acknowledged  Mr S having  a second investment property worth more  than 
double of his pension savings and a relatively  large surplus monthly income  which 
provided him with the ability to initiate additional savings. Given  that his Aviva plan 
represented less than a third of his investments, Fairway was prepared to assist Mr S 
with his request  if he acknowledged that he understood the risks and was prepared 
to accept the risk by signing and returning  the enclosed  copy  of the report.
Fairway said Mr S had confirmed the questions around his attitude to risk in the first 
part of the document when the document was completed on 20 July and his personal  
circumstances and objectives were discussed.  If this wasnt  his understanding of the 
questions that were raised with him, he should  contact Fairway  before taking any 
action.
Fairway said that they had understood from Mr D that Mr S had previously started 
proceedings to transfer his benefits  into Ark, a high-risk arrangement which  they 
understood had recently been closed  down by the Pensions  Regulator. They said 
whilst this showed Mr Ss willingness to take a high-risk investment approach  with his 
pension, they would  recommend extreme caution when considering  any arrangement 
of this nature and he should defer any further  action  if he wasnt entirely satisfied he 
understood the risks involved.
They acknowledged  Mr S had his own home and a second  investment property 
which meant he had a significant  property  portfolio from a valuation perspective and 
therefore could  be considered to understand the nature  of property investment. 
However Fairway stressed that overseas property investment  especially those in 
development carried a significantly higher investment risk than UK property.
The high-risk investment nature of Mr Ss existing scheme could result in significant 
losses if market conditions deteriorated but his requested course  of action would 
increase the risk as he would be investing his entire  fund into one investment sector. 
So in a worst-case scenario all of his savings  could be lost.
Fairway referred  to projected investment returns appearing to be enticing and 
showing high quality  hotels and resorts. However, they pointed  out that they were 
unable to substantiate those figures and whilst they appeared attractive, they 
recommended caution  as they were unable  to verify  how these projections were 
calculated. The returns were by no means  guaranteed.
Fairway said they understood Mr S was investing in an existing hotel which was 
being updated and that the development should  be completed the following year. 
Ref: DRN20972405But Fairway recommended  Mr S to check with Harlequin that his funds would  be 
used to complete  his individual unit. 
Fairway also warned  to be cautious with regards  to sales  information promising that 
funds could be returned to SIPP customers if required. They said they would
question whether Harlequin  would hold enough  cash reserves  to be able to pay out
significant funds  if there  was a demand as this could result  in his funds  being  illiquid  
and unavailable  for a significant  period  of time.
There were  a number of warnings given  in the document in bold letters:
As advised under the heading Attitude to Investment Risk we would  class  your 
proposed investment as highly speculative and as such you should not 
proceed with an investment of this nature unless you are prepared to take a 
high-risk investment  approach  which could potentially result  in the loss of part 
or all of your savings.
In our opinion this specialist  form of investment  is only suitable for investors 
who fully understand the nature of the investment, the potential rewards and 
risks associated with this specialist  form of investment and understand that 
this element of their total retirement  savings could be significantly reduced  in 
value or in extreme circumstances  entirely  lost.
If you feel that you cannot fulfil  all of these requirements (this referred to the 
indicators of Mr Ss risk profile on page  3) then we cannot recommend 
establishment of the Self Invested  Personal Pension on your  behalf and would  
not be in a position  to proceed to act for you in establishment of this. If this is 
the case you should contact us at your earliest opportunity.
We therefore recommend that you do not proceed with this investment unless  
you fully understand  the nature of the proposed investment and are prepared 
to accept the potential risks involved.
In view of the risk nature of your proposed investment and the fact that you 
wish to invest your entire  Aviva scheme  in this manner  our recommendation 
must be not to proceed.
Mr S signed  the report and returned  it to Fairway.  The SIPP  was established  and the 
investment into Harlequin went  ahead. The Harlequin development subsequently failed and 
Mr Ss investment is essentially worthless.  
One of our adjudicators thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Fairway should  
have advised  Mr S that the Harlequin  investment  was unsuitable for him and consequently 
shouldnt have recommended the SIPP. He said if Fairway had done so, Mr S wouldnt have  
proceeded with the investment and therefore  wouldnt  have incurred his investment losses. 
The adjudicator recommended Fairway to compensate Mr S for these losses.
Fairway provided substantive submissions which Im not going to repeat in detail. However, 
in essence they said their recommendation to Mr S was not to proceed with either the SIPP  
or the investment and that they had pointed out the risks of the Harlequin investment to 
him putting him in a fully informed position. They said Mr S had acknowledged he was 
prepared to take the highest risk profile possible and he had demonstrated his high-risk  
Ref: DRN20972406investment approach by investing  into Ark and lost these funds shortly before he was 
introduced to Fairway.  So he was clearly  a high-risk investor. 
Fairway said Mr S disregarded  their advice, so would have proceeded with his investment 
regardless of Fairways actions. He had also already  paid a reservation fee of £1,000 on the 
Harlequin property  and completed  the transfer  request to Aviva months before he was 
introduced to Fairway which showed he had already decided  to proceed. They  say Mr S 
would have invested into Harlequin in any event and so they shouldnt be held responsible 
for his losses. 
The complaint was referred  to me for an ombudsmans decision.  I issued a provisional 
decision not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I asked both parties for further information or 
comments they wanted me to consider.
Fairway agreed with my decision. Mr Ss representatives disagreed and made further  
representations which Ill address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   When  considering what  is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at 
the time.
In my provisional decision I said:
was the transfer  into a SIPP suitable  for Mr S?
I dont think it was. The SIPP was only needed  to facilitate the investment  into Harlequin as 
this wouldnt have been possible within Mr Ss personal pension  plan.  The investment into 
unregulated overseas property is a high risk and specialist investment which would  only be 
suitable for the most  experienced  investors. And I dont  think Mr S falls into this category.
I appreciate Mr Ss Aviva pension was invested in relatively high-risk funds. However, it still 
had an element of diversification and was a standard investment. The Harlequin investment 
was a non-standard and undiversified investment which was much  higher risk. We asked  
Mr S how the investments  were chosen  in his Aviva pension and he said he followed the 
advice of his financial adviser when the pension was set up. He had left the management of 
the funds to them. Given that Mr S didnt have any other investments other  than a second 
property in the UK and a couple  of smaller pensions I think  this is plausible. I dont think  
having this pension automatically  makes  him an experienced  investor.
I understand that Mr S invested his other  two smaller personal  pensions into Ark, another  
high-risk investment, shortly before investing  into Harlequin. This was also arranged  by Mr D 
and Mr N. Fairway  has said that at the time of the advice they knew the Ark scheme  had 
been closed by the Pensions Regulator  but didnt know whether investments had been lost 
and how much Mr S had invested.  Mr S says he didnt know  at the time that the investments 
into Ark had been  lost. Again I find this plausible. If Mr S had known that his very recent 
investments recommended by Mr D and Mr N had been lost, I think  its unlikely he would 
have relied again on their recommendation.
Ref: DRN20972407Both the Ark investment and the Harlequin  investment  were  marketed to him by Mr D and 
Mr N within  a few months.  On balance its likely Mr S didnt know  how high risk the Ark 
investment was. It was quite a complex scheme  for a lay person to understand. So the fact 
that Mr S invested two of his pensions into Ark around the same time as into Harlequin 
doesnt mean hes an experienced investor  with the highest possible attitude to risk. 
Mr S wanted  to invest a substantial part of his retirement provisions into Harlequin. Yes, he 
had a home and a buy-to-let property, but both properties still had considerable outstanding 
mortgages. And at the time of the transfer he was living  on his savings and an overdraft. The 
income on the fact find was expected  income.  Mr S told us at the time he had been living on 
savings and his overdraft for about  two years  as he had been unable  to work due to a 
broken wrist.
He still had about 15 years to go until his planned retirement, so he had enough time to 
make up some potential losses and its likely he wanted to take some risk with his pension, 
something he did in his existing pension. 
However, the Harlequin investment was much higher risk than this and based on his 
circumstances I dont  think  he had the capacity to take such a high risk (even if he wanted 
to). Losing all his funds  would  have  affected his financial  security  in retirement. So I think the 
investment was unsuitable for him and consequently  so was the SIPP.
what were Fairways responsibilities
Fairway gave advice to Mr S, so they had to make sure their recommendations were  suitable 
for him. Fairway is adamant they recommended  against Mr Ss transfer to the SIPP and the 
Harlequin investment.  However, I disagree.
Fairway relies on the one sentence in the attitude  to risk report which says:
In view of the risk nature of your proposed  investment and the fact that you wish to invest 
your entire Aviva scheme in this manner  our recommendation must be not to proceed.
However, Fairway  then immediately caveats this by explaining that Mr S is already invested 
in a high-risk manner  in his Aviva pension  and that he has a second property and disposable 
income. They say that they are prepared to assist Mr S with his request if he acknowledges 
that he understands the risks and is prepared to accept the risk by signing and returning the 
enclosed copy of the report.
And in the recommendation letter they say we are happy to recommend your existing 
benefits be transferred  from your Aviva scheme to the Harlequin  Self Invested Personal  
Pension arrangement.
So whilst there are lots of caveats and risk warnings, Im satisfied that Fairway did in fact 
recommend the SIPP transfer to Mr S. And as part of that advice they also needed to 
consider the suitability of the underlying investments. The regulators view on this is clear. 
Fairway originally told Mr S they wouldnt give any advice on the underlying investment. 
However, they later included more information about the nature of the Harlequin investment 
and gave Mr S detailed guidance.
Ref: DRN20972408Ive considered the suitability letter dated  1 September  and the detailed attitude  to risk 
questionnaire. Mr Ss representatives  say Mr S never saw that document and the warnings 
contained within it. However, the letter  was signed by Mr S and it referred to the attitude to 
risk questionnaire highlighting a number  of issues which Mr S should  consider before 
completing the investment. So Im satisfied Mr S received this information and that the letter 
sufficiently made it clear that he should  read the attached information  before he proceeded.
I think Fairway  made  it very clear that Mr Ss intended investment was high risk and that he 
could lose all his money. This was mentioned  several times. However,  essentially Fairway  
left the decision  whether  the investment was suitable to Mr S. 
It wasnt sufficient to give Mr S all the information to allow him to make an informed  choice 
about whether  this was suitable  for his circumstances. 
In 2011, The Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS)  said under 9.2.1R: a firm must take 
reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation is suitable for its client. And COBS  
9.2.2R said it was necessary for a firm.to have a reasonable basis  for believing that the 
transaction to be recommended
(a)meets his investment objectives
(b)is such that he is financially able to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with 
his investment objectives
(c)is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  to understand 
the risks involved in the transaction
Mr Ss overall objective here wasnt only the transfer of his pension into a SIPP but included  
the investment  into Harlequin At the very least Mr S wasnt able to bear the financial risk of 
his investment as explained earlier in my decision.  I think Fairway shouldnt  have simply 
accepted the risk profile questionnaire that was provided to them  by Mr D. Fairway should  
have realised that at least two of the statements wouldnt apply to Mr S (even if he had 
thought differently):
I can afford to lose a large proportion of money  without my financial security  being affected
My earning capacity is such  that I can absorb this risk
If Fairway had done their own proper risk assessment and fact find with Mr S, I think they 
should have come to the conclusion that Mr S had a lower risk profile, particularly with 
regard to his capacity to take any risk with his pension for the reasons Ive explained above.  
Mr S told us that the buy-to-let property was used  by his daughter who only paid minimal  
rent to cover costs and at the time of transfer he had been  living  on his savings and his 
overdraft for two years. He was also going  through a separation at the time which meant  he 
had to pay a settlement to his partner (although contrary to what his representative had told 
us, he said both the home and the buy-to-let  property belonged to him at the time.) And two 
of his pensions  worth about  £13,000  had been  recently invested  in the high-risk Ark scheme. 
I think Fairway  could have known about  all this if they had done the fact find themselves.
Even if Mr S was prepared  to take high risks with his finances, Fairway should  have  told him 
directly and without qualifications that they recommended against the transfer. The 
investment was unsuitable and consequently  so was the SIPP  as there  was no other reason 
for the SIPP than to facilitate the Harlequin  investment.
Ref: DRN20972409In summary,  I dont think Fairway met their obligations for giving  suitable  advice.
what would  Mr S have done  if Fairway had given his suitable advice?
As a service  we dont  punish businesses for their errors. We try to put customers  into the 
position they would be in if the correct action had been taken. I appreciate  that suitable 
advice could have  avoided Mr Ss losses. And Id say many customers would follow  the 
recommendation of a regulated financial adviser. 
However, in these particular circumstances I think on balance Mr S would have still invested 
his pension into Harlequin even if Fairway had advised against a transfer. I say this for 
several reasons.
risks explained
Fairway did point out that there was the possibility Mr S could  lose all his money. They also 
explained specific risks of overseas property and raised concerns that the advertised 
attractive returns were not guaranteed  and Fairway didnt  know how they had been 
calculated. The messages were clear.  
So Mr S would have  known about  the high risks of the investment and proceeded anyway. 
Im not convinced that in this particular case a recommendation not to transfer (or even a 
refusal to establish  the SIPP) would have  changed Mr Ss actions. 
I think its likely that any risks warnings or advice  given  by Fairway were outweighed  by what 
Mr S was told by Mr N. We asked Mr S why he invested  despite the warnings. He said Mr N 
told him risk letters were sent to everyone  and although usually if something  sounded  too 
good to be true it was, in this case it really  was that good and he would make  a lot of 
money by investing.  Mr S said he just went with what  the guy selling it (i.e. Mr N) told him. 
By the time Fairway got in touch  with Mr S for the first time in July 2011, he had already 
made his plans to transfer his Aviva pension.  It originally was meant to go into the Ark 
scheme, but was eventually invested  into Harlequin. He had completed the SIPP and 
Harlequin paperwork and had paid a non-refundable deposit of £1,000  to reserve  the 
property. 
Ref: DRN209724010It wasnt that Mr S was looking for advice from Fairway whether he should  proceed. It seems 
Mr N had already convinced him he should, just like he had with the Ark scheme. And Mr N 
only introduced  Fairway  into the process as he couldnt recommend the SIPP himself.
incentives 
Mr N offered business development loans to his clients once the sales were  completed.  
These payments  went directly to clients and incentivised them  further to invest. Ive seen  
evidence for this on different cases.
We asked Mr S if he received such an offer and he confirmed that he was offered and 
received a £10,000 interest free loan which was paid after the Harlequin  investment was 
paid for through the SIPP. He said the money went to his ex-partner in the separation  
settlement.
I think its likely such large incentives would have helped Mr N convince Mr S that positive 
returns from the investment were  likely.  I think the proposition of receiving £10,000 in cash 
would have been attractive, particularly as Mr S hadnt had any income  for the past two 
years and was going through  a separation
causation
Fairway shouldnt have recommended the SIPP. However, I dont think a negative 
recommendation from Fairway would have stopped Mr S from investing.  It seems that Mr S 
was not paying attention to what Fairway was telling him. He had no relationship with them, 
and told us that he relied on the information  given to him by Mr N. He ignored Fairways risk 
warnings. So in this particular case I dont  think its likely he would have paid much attention 
to a clear recommendation not to transfer. 
And even  if this had raised some doubts or concerns  with Mr S, I think it would have been 
quite a big step to cancel  the reservation of the property, lose the reservation fee and miss 
out on a substantial incentive  payment. Of course in hindsight Im sure Mr S would say he 
would have accepted these losses in order to avoid losing his entire pension, but I dont think 
at the time he would have seen it this way. I think its likely Mr N would have continued to 
clear any possible doubts. 
I think Mr S would have proceeded with his investment in any event. He could have done 
this by acting  as an insistent client (once he had been given a negative recommendation and 
Fairway had documented clearly the fact that Mr S was going  against their explicit 
recommendation.)
Ive considered whether Fairway should  have refused  to set up the SIPP for Mr S. The 
regulator doesnt require businesses to generally  refuse acting for clients after a negative 
recommendation. Its possible for clients to proceed  on an insistent client basis. Fairway did 
have to act in the clients best interest.  However,  I dont think this necessarily always means  
refusing to act altogether. I think Fairway suspected Harlequin was encouraging Mr S to 
invest, so they gave  him extensive risk warnings and explained the potential  consequences 
of losing all of his money.  
I think Fairway  took reasonable steps to ensure Mr S understood what  he was doing and 
wasnt investing without  understanding the risks of his planned actions. So if he had been 
given a clear recommendation -without  caveats- against the transfer and Mr S still wanted  to 
Ref: DRN209724011proceed despite all warnings,  I think they wouldnt have acted unfairly  by helping him to 
execute his wishes.  In any event, even if Fairway had refused to assist,  I think Mr S wouldve 
explored alternatives to invest  (with the help of Mr N). Mr S wasnt required to have a 
recommendation from a financial  adviser to open  the SIPP and invest  in Harlequin. 
On balance I think Mr S would have incurred the same losses  even if Fairway had given him 
suitable advice.  I empathise with the position Mr S finds himself in, but I dont think  Fairways 
actions caused  his losses. And so it wouldnt be fair to uphold  the complaint against  them.  
For these reasons Im not intending  to request Fairway to compensate Mr S.
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr Ss representatives submitted the following comments and information in response to my 
non-uphold decision:
Mr S is adamant that he never received  any letters  or calls from Fairway. He only 
ever had contact with Mr N and Mr D. Any documents he signed were  given to him in 
face-to-face meetings  with Mr N.
It was Mr D who introduced Mr S to the Ark and Harlequin investments at the same  
time. Mr S had no previous investment experience. He wasnt  aware of any issues 
with the Ark investments. He wouldnt have trusted the same person with the 
arrangement of another pension investment of £83,000 if he had known he had just 
lost £13,000.
Mr S has never seen the financial fact find. He says he has never  lived on his 
savings and overdraft.  The work  referred to as the local authority contract is only 
part of his self-employed work. He carried out work  for commercial and domestic 
clients and earned £70,000-£80,000 per year. At the time of the advice he had the 
contract with the council  for many  years.
With regards to the incentive  paid,  they say Mr S wasnt  struggling financially and 
didnt need the extra cash. He had been  offered  the interest free loan to make an 
additional cash contribution as well as using  the balance for himself. He used the 
sum to support his partner and mother of his children.
Mr S cant recall  paying a £1,000 deposit. The SIPP contract shows  a purchase price 
for 30% share of the property for £81,000.  The contract was dated after the suitability 
report was issued.  Mr Ss representatives  query whether I think  this means no 
deposit was required.
Fairway accepted the introduction from an unregulated firm and failed to obtain 
information about Mr Ss personal  or financial circumstances. They  also failed to 
ensure Mr S received any correspondence they had passed  to the third-party  
introducer. They shouldnt have facilitated  the transfer without assessing whether   
Mr S could  bear the risk of the investment. They shouldnt have relied on the risk self-
assessment form provided  to determine Mr Ss overall ATR. They should have 
identified he wasnt an experienced investor  and didnt fully understand the risks 
involved in the transaction.
Fairway is portraying Mr S to have acted against  their advice or risk warnings. But 
this is simply a papering  exercise. There wasnt an acknowledgement  from Mr S that 
Ref: DRN209724012the transaction was against Fairways recommendation and it was being  carried out 
on his request. Fairway failed to satisfy  the requirements for an insistent client.
Mr Ss representatives also provided  some  further documents  they had requested 
from Aviva. They include letters from Aviva to Mr S and Fairway on 1 August 2011 
explaining that they cant release any information to Fairway as the letter of authority 
isnt dated and they request a new one. On 10 August Fairway sent a fax to Aviva 
asking for information about the plan.  They  attached a signed letter of authority from 
Mr S dated 2 August and a copy  of Avivas letter of 1 August which had a handwritten 
note (seemingly from Fairway) on it. The note said:
2/8/11-phoned Aviva  asked for return  of authority-not available. Left message on 
Mr Ss answerphone new authority (with date)  posted out for signature and return.
Mr Ss representatives refer to Fairways handwritten telephone note (also of 2 
August) they provided with their file which states that Fairway talked to Mr S about 
the risk of the investment.  They  ask whether Fairway shouldnt have covered what  
was discussed  during  this call when  they sent Mr S the new letter  of authority.
They also say the note Aviva provided  shows Fairway left Mr S a clear message on 
what he needed to do (sign, date and return a new letter of authority), so there was 
no requirement for Mr S to call back  Fairway  that day or for Fairway  to call Mr S 
again.
Mr S is adamant he never spoke to Fairway  and didnt have a conversation in relation 
to any risks on 2 August  2011.
They also say Fairways handwritten note dated  2 August in which they refer to risk 
explanations isnt trustworthy  considering some  of the Aviva  transfer  forms were  
already signed  in May 2011.
Given the fact that this was Mr Ss only pension provision, its more likely than not he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer  and the investment into Harlequin.
Ive carefully considered  all the information Mr Ss representatives provided.  However,  I 
remain satisfied that the fair outcome is still not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Many of things they say have already been considered and are not in dispute from my side.  
For example, Im aware  and already acknowledged that Mr Ss was dealing mainly  with Mr N 
and Mr D and I agreed  that its unlikely Mr S would have known about the failed Ark 
investment before investing in Harlequin. I also made a finding that Fairway didnt give 
suitable advice  and should  have  done  things differently.  Mr S also wasnt  an insistent client. 
You can only be an insistent client if you go against  a recommendation and as I said in my 
provisional decision, Fairway recommended  the SIPP and didnt clearly  recommend against 
the transaction as they should have done.
With regards to Mr Ss financial situation  Ive relied  on what  Mr S told our investigator during 
a phone call. The fact find was discussed with Mr S and he confirmed that whats  stated on 
the fact find is correct. The income from the local authority contract  hadnt  yet started and he 
told us the previous two years he had been unable to work due to a broken wrist. And even if 
Ref: DRN209724013he didnt need  the extra cash,  I think a cash incentive like this would have been attractive. I 
also think being offered upfront loans which could be paid back from investment returns 
would have helped  convince Mr S that the investment would likely provide good returns. 
The Harlequin contracts usually required a £1,000 fee on reservation of the property. Mr Ss 
representatives have  provided a contract for Mr S for 30% of the property and it doesnt 
mention the reservation fee. However,  usually there was a second contract for the remaining 
70% of the property  which meant  further  payments were due on completion  of the property. 
These contracts tended to include the reservation  fee. So its still likely Mr S paid this. 
However, in any event, my assumption  that Mr S had paid a reservation fee was only a small 
factor here. Even if Mr S didnt pay a reservation fee of £1,000 I still think the loan incentive 
and the information and assurances from Mr N would  have  outweighed  any clear advice 
from Fairway. 
I appreciate that the note on Avivas documents  indicates  Fairway  left Mr S a message on 2 
August that he needed to sign, date and return a new letter of authority. And it might be true 
that a return call from Mr S or another call from Fairway  wasnt  strictly necessary. However, I 
dont think this means another call didnt happen. So I dont agree with Mr Ss 
representatives that one note contradicts the other.  I think  the main purpose  of the call was 
organising the letter  of authority. And when the investigator spoke to Mr S he admitted  that 
he couldnt remember many details from the time of the advice  as it was a long time ago, so 
the fact he cant remember this possibly short phone call, doesnt  mean  it didnt happen. And 
I see no other reason  to doubt the authenticity  of Fairways call note.
I would also like to note that when I referred to the risks that were pointed  out by Fairway I 
primarily considered the suitability report  that was issued to Mr S a month later. This was 
signed by him, so Im satisfied he received it. The call on 2 August was by no means the 
deciding factor to this case.
Its correct that some  of the transfer forms for Aviva  were completed in May 2011. In fact 
most forms  were completed  before  Fairway issued their suitability report. As explained, 
using Mr Ss pension  funds was already being  planned  by Mr D and Mr N before Fairway got 
involved. Mr S knew that the transfer was going  ahead. So I cant see how previously signed 
transfer forms in May call a phone  conversation  in August into question.
In summary,  for the reasons set out above, Im still satisfied  Mr S would have transferred his 
pension into a SIPP and into the Harlequin investment anyway, even if Fairway had given 
him suitable advice.  
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097240