K820x#14complaint
Mrs J is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC processed  her payment request in Euros  instead of 
Sterling. This has caused her to lose money due to exchange rates.
background
In October  2018 Mrs J made an online transfer from her Barclays account to a sterling  
account based in Malta. Mrs J says the transfer was made using a sterling IBAN and 
believed that this would be enough  to identify the funds  were to go to a sterling  account. 
After making the transfer Mrs J says she became aware there had been  a number of 
charges and exchange rates applied  to the transfer  totalling around £1200. This was 
because the funds were  exchanged to euros by Barclays and then back to sterling by the 
receiving bank when  they reached  the account  in Malta. 
Barclays say the online  transfer Mrs J completed  asked for the funds to be transferred in 
euros, so they were  only following  her instructions. They say the funds are transferred 
instantly and therefore couldnt  be cancelled.  Barclays didnt think  it had made any mistake  
and wasnt responsible for the money  Mrs J lost.
Mrs J says Barclays didnt show compassion as she had been a customer  for over 50 years 
and didnt understand the transfer procedure when she was carrying  out the process. Mrs J 
says after being  transferred to several  people in Barclays the error  could  have been  
adjusted. Mrs J says Barclays should  make  a compromise on the charges as a result of the 
error.
Our investigator found the online transfer process had provided the option for Mrs J to select  
the currency she wanted to send the payment in. As she hadnt changed the default 
selection of euros, Barclays wouldnt have known  that Mrs J wanted the money to be 
transferred in sterling.
The investigator also found that the online transfer process showed the exchange  rate and 
amount to be transferred to the account  in euros.  The investigator thought this made it clear 
the funds would be converted and transferred in euros. The investigator didnt think  Barclays 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator and the matter has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the terms and conditions for the account held by Mrs J with Barclays, specifically  
in regards to international  transfers.  The terms say international  transfers have to be sent 
through other banks which are either chosen by Barclays  or another bank. Barclays  may 
have to convert an international payment into the currency of the country it is being sent to 
unless the customer  asks them not to.
Ref: DRN27025822Mrs J used Barclays online banking to make  the transfer to Malta. I appreciate  Mrs J 
believed the IBAN to indicate a sterling account  however, when  provided  the option  Mrs J 
kept the default option of euros. The IBAN doesnt specify the currency of the receiving 
account; its simply a way to identify  where the payment needs to go.
I have looked  at the screenshot  where  the payment is processed and this shows  the 
currency in which the funds would be transferred. I appreciate Mrs J may have overlooked  
this element of the payment process  however, I cannot reasonably  find Barclays at fault for 
this oversight.
I have considered if Barclays had the ability to recall the funds  to avoid the charges  and 
exchange rate paid in the transfer process. Mrs J says she told Barclays  when she 
discovered the error, which  was the day after the payment was made. As the payment was 
instant it could not be cancelled but the option to recall the payment was possible. This recall 
would have incurred  additional costs as the third party bank charge a handling fee. The 
funds would also have  to be converted back into sterling to credit the Barclays  account.
This means  Mrs J would still been  in same the position if Barclays  had tried to recall  the 
payment.
Having taken everything into consideration I dont find that Barclays have done anything  
wrong. For this reason  I dont find it reasonable to ask Barclays to compensate Mrs J for the 
charges and currency exchange  she has incurred.  I realise Mrs J has been a longstanding 
customer with Barclays and this was an honest oversight but Barclays  said it isnt willing to 
make a goodwill  payment.  As Barclays hasnt done  anything wrong it wouldnt be fair for me 
to direct it to pay for Mrs Js financial loss.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2702582