K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  has 
refused to consider a claim for critical illness benefit under a joint term assurance policy.
Background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs C made changes to their mortgage and as they understood it, their 
existing term assurance  policy was amended to reflect their new borrowing. The new policy 
with Legal & General started  on 10 June 2002 and provided cover of £120,000, which  
decreased over the 20 year term.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs C contacted Legal  & General as they were paying  off their mortgage  
early  they wanted to know what happened  with the policy.  Mr and Mrs C say 
Legal & General recommended they keep the policy going as it provided life and critical 
illness cover.
Mrs C was sadly diagnosed with cancer in April 2018. They  contacted Legal & General to 
make a claim. However,  Mr and Mrs C were told their policy  didnt include critical illness 
cover so a claim couldnt be considered.
Mr and Mrs C complained. They  said they understood  their first policy, which included critical 
illness cover,  was simply amended to protect their new mortgage. They said they werent 
aware of any other changes. Moreover,  they said they were told in 2014 that their policy 
included critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs C asked Legal & General to reconsider.  They  later 
complained again when  they didnt hear back from Legal & General about it.
Legal & General didnt accept it had provided  any misleading information in 2014. It also said 
the sale of the policy  in 2002 was non-advised and no call recording was available. 
Legal & General maintained there  wasnt any claim to consider because  Mr and Mrs Cs 
policy didnt include critical illness cover. However, it offered £100  for any upset caused by it 
failing to respond to a number of emails when  Mr and Mrs C made their complaint.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this and referred their concerns to our service. Our investigator  
upheld the complaint in part. He didnt think Legal & Generals  refusal to consider the claim 
was unfair  as he was satisfied Mr and Mrs Cs policy didnt include critical illness  cover. He 
said if they had concerns  about the way the policy was sold, they should  raise this with 
Legal & General separately. But the investigator  didnt think  the compensation offered to 
them reflected the trouble and upset  caused  by the delays; he said Legal  & General should 
pay a total of £250.
Legal & General didnt agree; it thought the compensation already offered was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C also didnt accept the investigators  findings, mostly as they still believed 
Legal & General should have to consider the critical illness  claim.  As no agreement  could be 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part 
for largely  the same reasons given by the investigator.
Ref: DRN20659052Critical illness claim
Im satisfied that Legal & Generals decision not to consider a claim for critical illness  benefit 
was reasonable.  I say this because the policy  schedule makes it clear  that the sum assured  
is only payable upon death or diagnosis of a terminal  illness. If the critical illness  benefit was 
included this would be listed  on the policy schedule. The policy wouldve also likely cost 
Mr and Mrs C significantly more than the premium they were  paying if it had included critical 
illness cover.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C were under the impression  their policy  included  critical illness  
cover, as they thought  it had been  set up on the same basis as their previous policy.  But 
I think the policy schedule  clearly set out the benefits provided by their policy. 
Mis-sale of policy
While Legal & General  have told us that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis,  they 
havent investigated a specific complaint about  how the policy  was sold.  If Mr and Mrs C 
believe that they asked for the new policy to be set up on the same  basis as their existing 
policy  i.e. with critical  illness cover  they should refer their concerns to Legal & General  to 
investigate. If Mr and Mrs C remain  unhappy with Legal & Generals response they can refer 
a new complaint to our service.
Customer service
Mr and Mrs C say they got in touch  with Legal & General in 2014 as they were repaying their 
mortgage. They wanted to know what would happen to the policy if they paid the mortgage 
off. Mr and Mrs C say they spoke with a representative who told them they should  keep  the 
policy going as it would  still pay out if either of them died or were diagnosed  with a critical 
illness. Theyve said this influenced their decision  to keep  the policy going. 
Legal & General doesnt have a recording of the phone  conversation  that took place but it
disputes that their representative wouldve said this. This is because  the representative 
wasnt permitted to provide any advice and that having accessed the policy details, it 
wouldve been clear  to them that the policy didnt include  critical  illness cover. Legal & 
General has also provided  a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs C on 16 December 2014 
which it says doesnt support  their recollections. Ive reviewed a copy of the letter provided; it 
confirms the policy provides  life cover for as long as payments are made.  It also explains 
what is needed to cancel the policy if Mr and Mrs C decide not to proceed  with it.
Overall, I havent seen enough  to persuade me that Mr and Mrs C were  misled in 2014  and 
that this influenced their decision  to keep the policy  going. I say this because there is no 
mention of critical illness cover in the letter sent to them and I think  its unlikely the adviser  
wouldve confirmed their policy included  this cover as he wouldve had access to the policy 
details during the call. I also think its unlikely Mr and Mrs C were  advised  to keep the policy  
going, given the letter explains how they could  cancel  it if they decided  they no longer 
wanted it.
When Mr and Mrs C made tried to make a claim,  they were told straight  away  that their 
policy didnt include critical illness cover so no claim could be considered.  But Mr and Mrs C 
were convinced Legal & General had made  a mistake.  Ive seen evidence showing  that 
Mrs C contacted Legal & General by email on 14 December 2018  explaining  why she felt it 
was mistaken, attaching  documents for it to consider. Mrs C didnt receive a reply  and 
Ref: DRN20659053appears to have chased a response  on at least one occasion before deciding to email the 
Chief Executive on 23 February  2019.  Mrs C received a response on 28 February 2019 and 
Legal & General investigated  this as a complaint.
Legal & General accepts the level of customer service provided was poor. It offered 
Mr and Mrs C £100 for the trouble and upset  caused. The investigator thought £250 was a 
more reasonable  sum for the impact of the service  failings. But Legal & General disagreed, 
saying that it had already informed Mrs C that her policy didnt include critical illness  cover. 
So, the claim was no longer  in dispute and so it just needed to compensate  Mrs C for the 
oversight in not responding to her emails.
Ive considered the points made  by Legal & General carefully, but I also think the total 
compensation offered to Mr and Mrs C should be increased to £250. Whilst I accept that not 
responding to a couple of emails isnt a significant  failing,  Mrs Cs personal circumstances 
have to be taken  into account. Mrs C was undergoing treatment  for cancer,  and genuinely 
believed Legal  & General had made a mistake  about  her policy  not including  critical  illness 
cover. She provided further information  for it to consider and was kept waiting over two 
months for a reply, during  what was already a difficult time for her. With this in mind, I think  
total compensation of £250  more  fairly  reflects the trouble and upset she experienced as a 
result of the customer service failings.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint  in part.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr and Mrs C total compensation 
of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065905