K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the fees charged by Taylor Edwards Financial Management  Ltd, 
following successful claims for mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr W instructed  Taylor  Edwards to make a number of claims for mis-sold PPI on his behalf.  
Two claims  were successful and Mr W received compensation  from the PPI provider. Taylor 
Edwards invoiced him for their fees.
Mr W has complained that Taylor Edwards charged  him a success  fee of 30% plus VAT 
when he believed they would only charge 20% plus VAT.  Hes also unhappy that he had to 
deal with the PPI provider  himself  to complete the claims. So he doesnt think  they should be 
charging any fees.
Our investigator found that Taylor Edwards  had dealt with the claims as instructed, so he felt 
they were entitled  to charge a fee. But Mr W didnt instruct them until 30 July 2018, which 
was after the Claims Management Regulator  (CMR) put a fee cap in place limiting fees for 
successful PPI claims to 20% plus VAT. And the letter Mr W received from Taylor  Edwards 
confirming their instructions said their fee would be 20% plus VAT. So the investigator said 
they should limit their fees for any successful claims to 20% plus VAT. 
Mr W agreed with the investigators view,  but Taylor Edwards didnt respond.  Because  of 
this, its been  passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Taylor Edwards havent provided  any 
evidence, despite  being asked to do so. So Ive based my decision on the evidence  provided 
by Mr W only.
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 required the CMR to introduce a fee cap for 
PPI claims.  The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date,  claims 
management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success fee of more  than 20% plus VAT. 
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance  to all claims management companies. This 
said from  the date of this guidance you should  inform  all new or potential  clients of the 
upcoming change  to the fees you can charge. 
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Taylor  Edwards sent Mr W on 8 August 2018. This explains that 
theyd sent off a claim on his behalf.  It also confirms from this point,  we work on a strictly 
No Win, No Fee basis. Should a successful claim be achieved,  our fee is 20%+VAT 
totalling 24% of the total gross amount awarded  to you.
But I havent seen  anything to show me that Mr W instructed Taylor  Edwards  before  11 May 
2018; or that he instructed  them between  11 May and 9 July 2018 and agreed for them  to 
act at a higher fee knowing a fee cap was about to come into effect. So I agree with the 
investigator that Taylor  Edwards cant charge  more  than 20% plus VAT for these claims.
Ref: DRN20657622Taylor Edwards were acting as Mr Ws representative in his claims. Because  of this he 
shouldnt have been contacted by the PPI provider directly  where it is clear that a 
representative is acting,  they should  have dealt with the representative.
When contacted  by the PPI provider, Mr W had the choice to deal with them,  or ask them to 
contact Taylor Edwards.  He chose to deal with the PPI provider direct, knowing that Taylor  
Edwards were charging for their services. His choice  doesnt alter this fact, so I dont agree 
that Taylor Edwards fee should be reduced or waived as a result.
putting things right 
Taylor Edwards should reduce their success fee for Mr Ws claims from 30% plus VAT to 
20% plus VAT. Where  Mr W has already paid their fee at the higher rate, Taylor  Edwards 
should refund him the difference,  plus simple interest at 8% a year, calculated from the date 
of payment to the date of refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Taylor Edwards Financial 
Management Ltd must follow  my directions detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065762