K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited declined  his pet 
insurance policy claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
In March 2016 Mr S former partner took out pet insurance for their dog on-line. The insurer 
is Red Sands. The policy gives lifetime cover so long as the policy is in force and has an 
annual limit for each  condition. Subsequently the policy  was transferred into Mr S name so 
for simplicity  Ill just refer to Mr S.
In May 2017  Mr S claimed for the investigations and treatment his dog had for skin irritation 
from 11 July 2016  to 12 May 2017.  Hes confirmed that he paid for the treatment.
Red Sands  declined the claim  for two reasons. It said:
the vet records showed Mr S dog had symptoms of a chronic  skin condition before 
the policy started so the dog had a pre-existing  condition  which  wasnt  covered by 
the policy terms, and
if Mr S had told it about his dogs  skin issues when  he bought the policy it would have 
added three specific  exclusions to the policy  exclusions  of cover on all claims with 
respect to the ears, with respect  to allergies  of any cause  and with respect  to skin 
conditions. Red Sands added those three exclusions to the policy to take effect  from 
7 March 2016 (the start of the policy).  It said the claim also fell within those 
exclusions.
Mr S complained to us. He said his vet had told Red Sands that the condition  wasnt  pre-
existing but Red Sands still declined the claim. He wants the claim paid.
Our investigator thought Red Sands unfairly  declined the claim as Mr S vets evidence was 
the dogs skin problem wasnt a pre-existing condition. He recommended  Red Sands 
reassess the claim.
Red Sands  disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said it considered the vet 
records at the time of consultation to be a true representation of the situation. It thought the 
skin lesions noted before the policy started  werent  due to hot tea as Mr S vets later letter  
suggested. It also referred to the three  exclusions it had added as an alternative reason to 
decline the claim.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold this complaint but with a different 
outcome than suggested by our investigator. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands acted fairly  and reasonably in declining the claim for 
either of the two reasons  its given and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN24270472pre-existing condition
The policy is clear theres no cover for a pre-existing condition that relates  to or results from 
an illness or clinical signs Mr S dog had before the policy started.
The policy definition of pre-existing condition includes  any condition, symptom  or sign of a 
condition occurring or existing in any form and at any time before the policy starts.
Its clear from Mr S dogs vet notes that from May 2016 he had ear inflammation and from 
July 2016 skin inflammations and the vet thought the dog had possible allergic reactions. 
Those notes and most of the vet notes Red Sands has referred to relate to after the policy 
was taken out.
But Red Sands thinks the following vet note made  on 12 February 2016 shows the dog was 
already showing  signs of the skin problem before the policy  started in March  2016:
2 small sore patches of skin in right groin. 1 slightly circular and very mildly inflamed. 
Not bothered by them.  Possibly spilt a little hot tea near him last night but owners 
suspect hit his back  if anywhere. Not going out as yet. Has met other dogs but not 
with skin disease. Lesions are very mild. Could be self trauma.
If the above was the only evidence from Mr S vet I may well have  decided  that Red Sands 
fairly declined the claim. However,  Mr S vet wrote to Red Sands in August 2018 saying:
This is a clarification letter  (Mr S dog) has an ongoing skin condition  that we are 
currently dealing with. We started investigations into the irritated  skin on 11July 2016  
and have provided on going care for this same condition from this date onwards. 
I would like to clarify  that the consultation (the dog) had prior to this on12 February 
2016 was a different condition and is not related to the skin irritation. 12 February  
2016 was a consultation for a skin lesion which appeared due to hot water being  
dropped onto (the dog), this cleared up without treatment and did not cause  any on 
going problems.
Red Sands  says Mr S vets letter doesnt prove theres no link between the conditions.  But 
I make  my decision  on what's more likely than not to be the situation. I think  Mr S vet letter 
is clear evidence that in her opinion the February 2016 skin issue  wasnt  related to the skin 
irritation the dog had from July 2016.
Ive seen Red Sands  comments  as to why it thinks the February  2016  skin lesion wasnt  
caused by hot tea. I generally  think its fair for an insurer to understand that the vet notes 
made at the time are likely to be the most  accurate record. But if the vet has later clarified 
the situation its reasonable for an insurer to take the clarification into account.  Mr S vet 
explains that her August  2018 letter is clarification. Ive no reason to doubt  Mr S vets 
evidence in her letter  and I note she spoke to the vet who actually saw the dog in 
February 2016.
Mr S vet is the expert  in this case. Her evidence  is the skin lesion before the policy  started 
wasnt related to the dogs skin problem that began after the policy started. On the clarified 
evidence from Mr S vet Red Sands didnt reasonably conclude the dogs claim condition 
was a pre-existing condition. It couldnt  fairly decline the claim on that basis.
Ref: DRN24270473retrospective specific exclusions
I also dont think Red Sands fairly added,  backdated and applied the exclusions of cover on 
all claims with respect to the ears, with respect to allergies of any cause and with respect to 
skin conditions.
Red Sands  didnt ask Mr S about pre-existing conditions or vet treatment when he bought 
the policy. If it had, and Mr S misrepresented the answers, it might be fair to apply 
exclusions retrospectively  if thats  what it would have done had it known the true position. 
The law allows this in some circumstances  where theres been a relevant misrepresentation. 
But as Red Sands hasnt shown me it asked Mr S those questions there isnt an issue of 
misrepresentation.
Red Sands  says that one of the presumptions in the sales process  is that it reserves  the 
right to apply an exclusion  in respect of any conditions  it subsequently  learns  were  pre-
existing at the start of the policy. But on Mr S vets evidence I dont think  the dog had a pre-
existing skin condition,  he had skin lesion due to an accident with hot tea.
Red Sands  has also referred  to the policy term which  says if Mr S dog has shown any 
clinical signs  or had an accident, injury or an illness before the policy it reserves the right to 
apply an exclusion to the policy in respect of the clinical  sign,  accident,  injury, illness  or 
condition. The relevant injury was skin lesion but Mr S wasnt  asked about his dogs medical  
history so, as Ive said, it isnt fair for Red Sands  to apply  an exclusion about that 
retrospectively.
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusions of cover on all claims with respect to the 
ears, with respect  to allergies of any cause and with respect to skin conditions.  It cant  fairly 
rely on the exclusions to decline the claim.
outcome
Red Sands  must pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  If Mr S has already paid the vet Red Sands must  
add interest as Ive detailed below. Red Sands must  remove  the three  specific  exclusions on 
the policy with effect  from the start of the policy.
responses to my provisional  findings.
Red Sands  didnt respond to my provisional findings  by the date we gave to respond. Mr S 
accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S accepted and Red Sands didnt respond to my provisional  decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I uphold  this 
complaint. Red Sands  must pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  
and subject to any excess and co-payments.  If Mr S has already paid the vet Red Sands 
must add interest  as Ive detailed below. Red Sands must  also remove  the three specific  
exclusions on the policy that Ive detailed below  with effect  from the start of the policy.
Ref: DRN24270474my final decision
I uphold this complaint
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any 
excess and co-payments. If Mr S has already paid the vet it must add interest* at 8% 
a year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement, and
remove the following  exclusions  with effect  from the start of the policy:
exclusion of cover on all claims with respect  to the ears
exclusion of cover on all claims with respect  to allergies of any cause
exclusion of cover on all claims with respect  to skin conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2427047