K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) wrongly settled  a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy against him.
background
Mr M says he turned  right at a roundabout from the only right-turning lane and entered lane 
two of the next road. He says he was driving  slowly  and stopped due to a red traffic light.  He 
says he heard a horn sound  behind  him and that another car collided into the rear of his car. 
The other driver says she was in lane one of the new road (to Mr Ms left) when he 
encroached into her lane,  causing damage to the side of her car. 
After considering the evidence, LV decided it didnt have a reasonable prospect of defending 
the claim in court. The other drivers solicitors had already  issued proceedings. LV tried 
unsuccessfully to settle the claim with liability split 50:50 between the parties, before settling 
the other drivers claim in full. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint. He said under the policy LV has the 
right to decide how to settle any claim.  In his opinion, LV investigated the claim  properly and 
based its decision on the available evidence. He noted that LV thought the damage to the 
other drivers  car was consistent  with her account  of events.
Mr M said his car was stationary when hit from behind.  He queried whether LV had asked 
the inspector who took a statement from him or its engineer  about  how the damage was 
caused. And he said LV hadnt conducted  a measured survey  of the accident site. He said 
LV had settled  the case to avoid the legal action started by what  he regarded  as an 
aggressive firm of solicitors. Mr M wanted  the records  changed  to show he wasnt at fault.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV has the right to settle claims as it sees fit. We only interfere  with an insurers decision if 
we think its acted unreasonably. Making  a reasonable decision means assessing all the 
available evidence and making the enquiries  that are necessary  in each particular case.
I think its clear  from the file that LV reached  a reasonable decision in Mr Ms case.  I can see 
the decision was taken after it had given due consideration to the accounts  of both parties 
and to the damage caused in the accident. LV didnt rush into making a judgement.
I think Mr M provided  LV with a plausible version  of events. Initially,  it thought he wasnt  at 
fault, given the circumstances  he described. Thats why it told him it would waive  his excess 
and that his no claims discount  would remain intact. Even after the other driver disputed 
Mr Ms account, LVs investigator found  Mr M to be credible. LV hasnt suggested that he 
tried to mislead it. But it found the other drivers  version  of events plausible  as well.  
LV cant  be sure what happened  on the day of the accident. But without independent 
evidence, it had to assess what the likely outcome would  be should the case have  to be 
decided by a judge. LV has no reason to settle a claim  if that can be avoided.  It tried to settle 
Ref: DRN28139982the claim with split liability. As that wasnt possible,  it had to decide whether it could justify  
defending the other  drivers  claim  in court. I think its reasonable for an insurer  to avoid court  
proceedings if it believes it has no reasonable prospect of success. 
In this case, LV noted that Mr M was in an unfamiliar place and said hed realised hed taken  
the wrong road just before the accident  happened. He also said he wasnt  sure if the red 
traffic light ahead  of him was meant for his lane.  And he said he heard a car behind him 
sound the horn before the accident. LV thought the horn sounding in particular  may well 
affect the way a judge considered what was most likely to have happened.  
In addition, LV concluded that the damage to the cars supported the other drivers account  of 
events. It thought if the other driver had driven  her car into the back  of Mr Ms car, the 
damage to his bumper  would  have  been more central, rather than to its left-hand  side. It 
thought the fact that the damage to the other drivers  car was to its side also supported her 
account. I dont  think  it was unreasonable for LV to reach that conclusion. 
I think the file notes show LV took into account all the evidence it had  and the file was 
reviewed by at least one senior  claims handler. I think LV misunderstood what Mr M said 
about changing lanes. He said he was in lane four before he turned right into the road where 
the accident happened. He said he stopped in lane two of that road. So I dont  think Mr M 
accepted that he changed  lanes in the way the other driver  said he did (from lane two to lane 
one of the second road). But I dont  think thats  enough to make LVs decision unreasonable.  
Mr M thinks LV should have conducted  a survey  of the accident site. But such  investigations 
arent usually done  after a relatively  minor accident. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
LV not to conduct a survey here.  
I think its understandable that Mr M is very frustrated  with LVs decision.  He doesnt think  he 
was to blame for the accident, and he may be right.  But I dont think  the evidence was such 
that LV could  reasonably  have been expected to defend the claim in court.  Taking everything 
into account, as I dont think LV acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules  I must ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before  13 March 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813998