K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that a car he acquired  through a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Toyota  
Financial Services (UK) Plc isnt of satisfactory quality. He would like either the car repaired 
or to be able to reject  it.
background 
Mr K says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with Toyota  Financial Services  (UK) Plc 
(TFS) in April 2017. The agreement was for 36 months and was for a new car.
Mr K said after he had driven 7,000 miles in the car he could hear a knocking noise when he 
turned the steering wheel.  He said he took the car to two garages who confirmed the noise. 
But he couldnt evidence  this.
Mr K said the noise continued  and was noted  during a recall due to a faulty  EGR  that was 
replaced. At this time there was also a problem with the Satnav freezing which couldnt be 
dealt with until a software  update was released.  The knocking noise couldnt be replicated at 
this time either.
He says a few months later the satnav issue was resolved but again the technician couldnt  
replicate the knocking noise. But Mr K says he was told that this was an issue  with his 
specification of car. At this point Mr K says he put in a complaint to TFS who didnt uphold  
his complaint.
my provisional  findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-Mr K had a number of issues with his car since he got it all of which had been  
resolved apart from the ongoing  knocking  noise. As a result of an independent 
inspection that has been identified as a slight vibration throughout the steering 
feedback under  certain road conditions.
-Mr K commissioned an independent report which noted the knocking noise as a 
minor issue and consistent with wear and tear within the steering column or steering 
rack universal joint. And commented  this was a known  Toyota  defect in a number of 
models. It recommended that the car be returned  to the manufacturer  under warranty  
for further investigation.
-On the basis of that report I wouldnt  normally  have allowed a vehicle to be rejected. 
The knocking noise  seemed to me to be a minor problem  that should  be rectifiable. It 
was possible it was just due to wear and tear. TFS had, however, agreed to allow  the 
car to be rejected.
-I accepted TFSs  view that the knocking  may well be a characteristic  of that particular  
model. That was consistent with the independent  report.
-Mr K clearly  wasnt happy that the problem hadnt been resolved. So I was surprised 
that he changed his mind over rejecting the car instead asking for a repair.
-Mr K seemed undecided as to what resolution  he would like. 
Ref: DRN26707972-I was concerned that the knocking  problem, however minor, might not be resolved by 
repair. It seemed that was a concern for TFS as well. 
-At this point TFS was still willing to allow the car to be rejected which  I thought was 
the best resolution.
-Mr K wasnt happy with the suggested  £350  compensation  which  our adjudicator  
recommended and TFS said it is willing to pay. 
-Mr K wished  to be compensated around £2,700 for costs, expenses, lost days at 
work and visits to garages. But Mr K gave no evidence to support this sum
-TFS agreed to refund, on proof of cost, the cost of the independent  report  Mr K 
obtained which I thought was fair.
-TFS also agreed to pay £350  compensation. This sum covered not only any distress 
but also the inconvenience  for the issues  Mr K have  raised ,for example ,visits to 
garages. I thought this was a fair  sum
-Mr K also wanted a full refund of all of the monthly payment he had made to date as 
he didnt feel he had fair usage of the car given its faults. 
-I wasnt aware of Mr K having  had significant periods without the use of his car, he 
had driven a significant mileage in it, and whilst I accepted  the knocking noise might 
have been an irritant I didnt feel that in itself was sufficient  reason to expect  TFS to 
refund all of the payments that Mr K has made to date.
In my provisional decision I felt it would  be reasonable for TFS to collect  Mr Ks car at no 
cost to Mr K, and end its finance agreement with Mr K showing the agreement as settled on 
his credit file. That TFS should  also pay Mr K £350 for distress and inconvenience and upon  
proof of cost refund Mr K the cost of the independent report.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both TFS and Mr K have responded to my provisional view.
TFS sent me a number of points in relation to this complaint that it wished me to be aware 
of. I dont think it provided any new information  but the summary of the key issues was 
helpful.
It did however point out that Mr Ks contract  was due to end on 25 April 2020. At this point 
Mr K could purchase the car making  the final balloon payment or hand  the car back not 
making the final payment.
It confirmed as long as Mr K hadnt  exceeded  the agreed mileage with the car and it had no 
damage outside of fair wear and tear there would be nothing further to pay. 
Ref: DRN26707973Mr K didnt accept my provisional  decision and sent in a lot of further information for me to 
consider. Much of this information for example the independent report, Hire Purchase 
Agreement and some  emails was not new information. Mr K did however provide evidence  
of the mileage after he had had the car for a year, dates he had taken the car into various 
garages and some  evidence of the cost to himself in doing  this. I would like to assure Mr K 
that I have  considered carefully all of the information  that he has sent in.
Mr K made a number  of points in relation to his complaint. He challenged the discrepancy  in 
the stated mileage that TFS gave at one year into the contract. He has given  evidence  to 
show the mileage  was 9,713 not 15,000.Looking at the service book it seems 15,000 is the 
km distance  driven.  I accept an error  was made  with this figure. However TFS gave this 
figure largely  in relation to Mr Ks use of the car. I accept that the actual figure of 9,713 
wasnt excessive mileage. But as I understand it the total mileage allowed over the three 
year contract was 30,000. So in completing just under 10,000  after a year Mr K was, I would 
say, getting fair use of the car.
Mr K also said that TFS refused to repair the car. I dont agree with that. From what  I 
understand it did agree to repair Mr Ks and to pay the £350 compensation. It said any repair 
needed would be covered  under Mr Ks warranty. But it was concerned  that it couldnt 
guarantee any fault could be repaired as it maintained the knocking  noise was characteristic 
of the car. I shared  this concern which is why I felt rejection of the car, in this instance, was a 
better solution.
In terms of the costs  Mr K would like me to take into account I appreciate  he has provided  
more information  about this than before.  Also that its sometimes difficult, retrospectively, to 
put together  such  information.
Mr K has listed what he feels  were  the transport cost for taking his car to and from various  
garages. If I have understood  Mr Ks information  correctly some of the charges seem  high to 
me. For example a cost of £220  for return trips to and from the same  postcode.  And £110 for 
one return trip when Mr Ks information  states  the car was delivered by a courier.  
Mr K has also given  noted the travel cost and hotel  costs  of a trip to Bradford for an 
independent report. But its not clear to me why he couldnt source  a report  more  locally  
which would have been easier,  less expensive and less disruptive for him.
Finally Mr K has given some evidence of dates he had time off work  to take his car to a 
garage and his daily rate of pay. But its not clear to me from this is he actually took all of 
those days off work. Some of the trips to garages  seem to be local trips so I am not sure why 
that meant  Mr K couldnt then go to work.  And I think one of the dates  may have been for an 
annual service. If thats the case that is a cost he could  reasonably  have expected to incur.
 
I do accept its frustrating  to have had issues with a new car .But TFS is only liable for issues  
that arise within  the first six months and are found  to be issues present or developing at the 
punt of sale. The dates  of trips to the garage Mr K has given us are in 2018/2019  so over a 
year after Mr K had the car. So I dont think its reasonable to expect TFS to cover the full 
amount of any costs  incurred.
However I do appreciate  Mr K has been  put to some inconvenience which is why I felt a 
compensation payment of £350  was appropriate. But I dont feel any other information Mr K 
has given me leads me to feel this sum should  be higher. 
Ref: DRN26707974I dont feel I have been given any new evidence to change  my provisional  decision that , in 
the case, rejection of the car is a fair solution  even though TFS has correctly  pointed out Mr 
Ks contract  is due to end soon.
Mr K, of course,  doesnt have to accept  my final decision.  He can, as TFS has pointed out, 
chose to keep  the car paying  the balloon payment or consider part exchanging  it for another 
vehicle. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Toyota Financial Services Limited should:-
-Collect Mr Ks car at no cost to Mr K.
-End its finance agreement with Mr K.
-Show the agreement  as settled on Mr Ks credit file
-Pay Mr K £350 for the distress and inconvenience
-Upon proof of cost,  refund Mr K the cost of his independent report.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2670797