K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited has declined  a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to Lloyds includes its appointed agents and representatives.
background
Mr and Mrs N made  a claim to Lloyds after they noticed cracks had appeared in their 
property. Lloyds arranged  for the damage  to be inspected  and an investigation into the 
cause of the problem to be carried out.
Lloyds accepted the damage had been  caused by subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage 
brought about by a nearby tree. It said the foundation  of Mr and Mrs Ns property was 
between 1,400mm and 1,600mm deep   but it should have been over 2,000mm deep due to 
the tree. Because of this it declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs N complained. They  said the property had been  built in 1999  and even though  
they bought it much  later than that there  was no cracking to the property or any suggestion  
of structural problems. Mr and Mrs N thought it unfair for Lloyds to decline their claim in 
those circumstances.
Lloyds investigated  further and found  out the tree was older than the property. It maintained 
the foundation hadnt been built deep enough and the claim should be declined  for that 
reason. Mr and Mrs N remained  unhappy and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Lots of evidence continued to be produced  by 
the parties and those  working on their behalf. But our investigator was satisfied that it was 
fair for Lloyds to decline  the claim on the basis that the foundation wasnt  deep  enough  
based on the guidelines. Mr and Mrs N didnt accept  this, so their complaint was passed on 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that it was fair for Lloyds to decline the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy covers damage  caused by subsidence, subject to a number of policy  terms. 
Lloyds has relied  on one of them to decline the claim. The policy term says damage isnt 
covered where  it has been caused by, amongst  other things, poor  design.
Lloyds said the damage was caused by subsidence. It says the nearby tree caused the clay 
soil to shrink and thats caused  subsidence.  But it thinks  the foundation wasnt designed and 
built deep enough and that means the policy term applies.
The investigation Lloyds  arranged showed the foundation of the house to be 1,600mm-
1,400mm deep.  It found  roots in the soil at a depth of 1,400-2,000mm belonging  to the tree. 
Ref: DRN20863712Lloyds said the foundation  should  have been  built deeper,  to at least 2,000mm. And if it had 
been, the subsidence problem wouldnt have happened. No roots  were found  below a depth 
of 2,000mm. I havent seen any expert opinion to contradict  this, so I accept Lloyds view on 
this point. I accept the policy term about  poor design  is relevant to the claim.
The policy doesnt  set out which standards, guidelines or regulations by which to judge  
whether the design of the foundation was poor. This is common  in buildings  insurance 
policies. I think its fair to take into account  the standards  which  the builder was required to 
comply with  at the time of building the property  when considering whether its fair to 
apply the policy term.
Lloyds has looked  at standards for building near trees  applied  by an organisation involved in 
the building  of new homes, which  Ill refer to as H. Lloyds said that at the time the property  
was built, Hs standards  required  a minimum  foundation depth of 2,000mm.  Ive looked at 
the information provided about Hs standards. It considers a number of factors  when 
recommending foundation  depths, including the type of tree, its distance from the property, 
mature height and the characteristics of the soil. I agree it recommends a foundation depth  
of at least 2,000mm, bearing  in mind the particular  circumstances at Mr and Mrs Ns 
property. Im satisfied these standards applied at the time the property was built.
Mr and Mrs N took advice  from a chartered  structural engineer. They  said the foundation had 
been increased to 1,600mm  by the developer. I dont think Lloyds accept that the 
foundations go to 1,600mm but I dont think its that relevant. The reason is, even at 
1,600mm it still shows the foundation  wasnt built to Hs standards.  The engineer  also said 
the foundation depth had been  miscalculated  by the builder. I understand this is because 
the foundation depth appears to be based  on the height of the tree at the time the property 
was built, rather than its full height when it reaches maturity, as Hs standards  require. 
Overall, I think the findings of the engineer support Lloyds  view that the foundations werent 
built in line with the standards required by H.
I understand the property was built by a company  that was required to follow  Hs standards.  
Because of that, I think its fair to treat Hs standards as the ones by which  to judge the 
design of the foundation. As the foundation depth was below the minimum recommended  by 
H, I think it was it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the policy term for poor 
design and decline  the claim.
Mr and Mrs N have said they think the foundation met the requirements of building  
regulations at the time it was built. Mr and Mrs N have provided some information  about 
foundation depths. And Mr and Mrs Ns engineer  said the development had been approved 
by the building inspector. I havent seen anything from the local authority building control to 
confirm what, if anything,  was approved or met regulations. So, I dont think  theres  enough 
information to show that the foundation  at Mr and Mrs Ns property met building regulations.
Mr and Mrs N and their engineer said they bought  the house in good faith, had a pre-
purchase survey carried out before they bought  the house, and notified Lloyds of the tree. 
Mr and Mrs N have also suggested  that Lloyds could have measured the foundation depth 
before offering them a policy if this was an important  factor.  In my experience, most buildings 
insurance policies  contain policy terms similar  to the one Lloyds has relied on. I dont  think  it 
would be practical  for insurers for carry out detailed surveys of properties like 
Mr and Mrs Ns before offering cover  for them.
Ref: DRN20863713Ive looked at the pre-purchase  survey  and I agree that it doesnt  indicate a problem with the 
foundation. And I accept  that Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have known  about  the potential  for a 
problem with the foundation. But Lloyds policy is clear that it doesnt cover  claims where  the 
damage has been caused by poor design. And here the evidence  shows  the standards by 
which the foundation should  have been built werent met. And Ive seen no evidence to 
confirm building  regulations were met. So, Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly when it declined 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs N and their engineer have also mentioned that a warranty  or guarantee for the 
building was provided at the time construction was completed. Lloyds  didnt provide that 
warranty so I cant  take it into account in this complaint. Similarly, Lloyds wasnt  responsible 
for the way the house was built, so I cant consider any concerns Mr and Mrs N have about 
that.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2086371