K822xcomplaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC is responsible for a financial loss of around  
£20,000. She says this resulted from her reliance upon incorrect price  information on its 
online platform in the course of selling bonds in her portfolio.
background 
Barclays concedes that a technical  error in its platform  caused  the incorrect  price 
information. Mrs B says she monitored the price(s) from late August 2018  up to October  
2018. Barclays accepts  that the incorrect price information continued during this period,  
however it does not accept that the issue led to a financial loss as alleged by Mrs B. 
Barclays says that whilst the price information was incorrect, the bonds were sold at the 
correct price following  Mrs Bs sale instruction in October. It says it made the effort to 
execute the sale manually (whilst waiving the higher telephone commission  rate and 
applying the lower online commission rate instead) in order  to improve  on the execution 
price where possible. It has offered Mrs B £250 as a form of apology for the incorrect  price 
information but it does not consider that it should  do any more in the matter.
Mrs B disagrees with Barclays. Her claim for financial  loss is based on the assertion that her 
intention was to liquidate the portfolio for the purpose of a property purchase.  She says she 
relied on the price  information and portfolio valuation at the time and throughout the 
monitoring period.  During  this period  the price information and portfolio valuation remained 
broadly the same  this, unknown to her at the time,  was incorrect and had been caused by 
the technical error in the platform. 
Mrs B says her commitment to the property purchase was based  on the portfolio valuation at 
the outset and her plan was to liquidate the portfolio if she noticed  from her monitoring  
that the price  was falling. As such  a fall did not happen she says she was not prompted to 
sell the bonds,  until she contacted Barclays to do so in October. Mrs B submits that 
Barclays platform was unfit for purpose; that it did not inform her about  the platform problem 
as it happened; that it did not deliver  the service  (including accurate price information) she 
had paid for so a refund of relevant fees should be due; that Barclays incorrect  price  
information  on which she relied  is the direct cause of the portfolio being  liquidated  in 
October for around £20,000 less than she could have liquidated it around September.
The matter  was referred to this service and considered by one of our adjudicators. He 
agreed with Barclays  position and endorsed its offer of £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs B. He noted Barclays need to identify, resolve and test the resolution of the 
root cause of the platform problem and that it accepts the process in this respect  took a long 
time. He said its offer of £250 is consistent  with the sort of award this service  would  make  
based on the issues involved.  In rejecting  the alleged financial loss, the adjudicator 
concluded that there is no way of knowing,  with certainty, what alternative  action  Mrs B 
would have taken  (and when) if she had known the true value of the portfolio during the 
monitoring period.
Mrs B disagreed with this outcome,  she considered  it to be devoid of a legal basis and 
queried how the adjudicator expects her to establish he financial  loss beyond what  she has 
already presented. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN25380042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says it considers itself to have upheld the basis of Mrs Bs complaint.  It accepts that 
the technical problem in the platform caused the incorrect price information  she experienced 
and that its process  for addressing the problem  took a long time. These issues  are not in 
dispute. For the trouble and upset caused by the matter  Barclays  has offered Mrs B £250.  
Like the adjudicator,  I consider this offer to be broadly consistent with the sort of award  I 
could make for trouble and upset in circumstances similar to those which  Mrs B experienced. 
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. In terms of the trouble  and upset caused to her in the matter, 
including the delayed notice about  the platform problem, I endorse Barclays offer of £250.
The issues  of fee/charges refund and alleged financial  loss are in dispute. Evidence 
suggests that terms of service were agreed around  the time when Barclays  migrated its 
accounts unto its present  platform   the platform in which the technical problem happened. 
The contractually binding  effect of the terms provides a legal basis  upon which to consider 
these disputed issues. 
Term 3.6 says:
We [Barclays] will not be liable for any Losses you may suffer  due to any failure of the 
online services, including  any Trading  Platform,  transmission failure,  or delays  or similar  
technical errors, or problems with the software  of data feeds  provided  by third parties, to the 
extent that the failure is beyond our reasonable control.  [my emphasis]
The above  term excludes Barclays liability in any and all of three scenarios  that is, any 
failure of the online service, any Trading Platform failure or any third party  data feed 
problems beyond its control. Based on available evidence the first two scenarios, at least, 
apply to this complaint  that is, the online service failure and the Trading Platform failure.  
Contractually, Barclays was/is not liable for any losses suffered by a customer  from such  
failures. I consider  that this alone defeats  Mrs Bs claim for alleged  financial loss. With 
regards to her claim for a refund of charges, this exclusion of liability  also suggests  that she 
paid for and was entitled to use the online  platform service but a technical platform problem 
would not automatically mean that Barclays failed  to provide the service.
Mrs Bs submissions  about the background events raise another  point which appears to 
defeat her claim for alleged financial loss. Primarily, the contractual  position addressed 
above serves as a basis not to uphold the claim in this respect. In addition, it could be helpful 
to address the secondary point that arises from Mrs Bs submissions.
Reference has been made to the portfolio valuation, at the outset of Mrs Bs monitoring 
exercise. She says it is the valuation upon which she relied, upon which she based  her 
commitment to the relevant property purchase  and upon which  her claim for financial loss 
should be calculated  and settled. Her argument  is that but for the platform  error  and/or  
Barclays failure to tell her about  it she would have liquidated the portfolio around  this value.
I have not seen evidence that Mrs B was prevented from liquidating the portfolio at the 
outset. Neither the platform error nor lack of knowledge about it played a role in her decision 
not to liquidate the portfolio. She chose to delay  the liquidation until she noticed a fall in the 
Ref: DRN25380043prices. This suggests that she chose to speculate  for an increase in the portfolios value 
before she liquidated it. She was entitled  to do this. However, it follows that  like the 
adjudicator noted   evidence becomes (and is) uncertain about  what  would have happened 
if she had known the true portfolio value during the monitoring period.  
She says she would have sold the bonds when prices fell because  she had committed to 
using the portfolio value for the property purchase. However, this appears to be inconsistent 
with her decision not to liquidate  the portfolio when it was at the value that matched her 
commitment. Instead, she chose  to speculate for an increase in value, at the risk of a fall in 
value. In this context (of speculation), it is arguable that what she would have  done  with 
knowledge of the portfolios true value during the monitoring  period is uncertain   including  if, 
when and/or at what price  the bonds would eventually  have been  sold.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint only in relation to the trouble and 
upset caused  to her by the platform problem. I order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay her £250 
for the trouble and upset  caused to her in this respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2538004