K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that the format of TSB Bank plcs emails doesnt let him identify whether or 
not the messages are fraudulent. Mr K also complains that TSB didnt  respond  when he 
made enquiries about its emails, and that it took too long to deal with his complaint.
background
Mr K says TSB doesnt comply with its own procedures for formatting emails.  So he says he 
cant work out whether the emails  are genuine  or fraudulent.  
Mr K is also unhappy that TSB didnt respond when he made  enquiries about  its emails, and 
took too long to deal with his complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  that the 
format of TSBs emails  included the security  features set out in the banks fraud identification  
information. 
The adjudicator explained that TSBs  fraud processes mean  that it doesnt respond  by email 
to messages that are forwarded to it. But it provides a phone  number  that customers  can use 
if theyre concerned  about particular emails, and they can attend a branch of the bank. The 
adjudicator thought this was reasonable.
The adjudicator acknowledged that it had taken some time for TSB to deal with Mr Ks 
complaint. But he didnt think this had caused any loss to Mr K, so this point didnt change 
his overall conclusions about the complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fraudulent email section of the fraud prevention  centre  on TSBs website says:
We will always:
Quote your last four digits of your account  number at the top of the email.  By default 
this will be your primary account. Remember a fraudster does not know these details.
A Frequently Asked Question in the same section  of the website also says:
How do I know  an email from you is genuine?
Part of the response to this question says:
 - We address you by name, not dear sir/madam
-    We may include the last four digits of your card number or the last three digits  of your
          post code.
Ref: DRN23251152Mr K has also sent examples of emails from TSB. At the top of the emails  it says:
We want you to recognise  a fraudulent email if you receive one. We will always greet you 
personally with your name and quote the last four digits of your current account number: 
Or
We want you to recognise  a fraudulent email if you receive one. TSB will always  greet  you 
personally with your name and quote either the last four digits of your current  account or the 
last three  characters of your postcode:  
On each of the examples Mr K has provided, Im satisfied that TSB included either the last 
four digits  of his current account number or the last three  characters of his postcode, after 
the semi-colon  in the sentences above.
Mr K considers those  details should be set out after the greeting in the email,  and that TSB 
is at fault by failing to do so. 
Ive noted everything  Mr K has said, but Im afraid  I dont agree with him. Im satisfied that 
TSBs emails should include either the last four digits of the current account  number  or the 
last three  postcode digits, and address Mr K personally. But Im not persuaded that TSB is 
committed to setting  out those details in any particular format. 
Mr K says he forwarded TSBs emails to its fraud prevention centre, but he didnt get a reply. 
He says he suffered  unnecessary distress while  he was waiting to find out if the emails were  
genuine.
TSB has explained that it doesnt reply by email to messages that are forwarded to it  in 
case those messages are fraudulent. But it provides a phone  number that customers  can 
use if they are concerned,  and customers can also attend a TSB branch. I think TSBs 
explanation for why it didnt reply by email  to Mr K is reasonable, and that it provided  suitable 
alternative means for him to raise his concerns if he wanted to.
I accept that TSB took too long to respond  to Mr Ks complaint generally. But like the 
adjudicator, Im not persuaded that this caused  unnecessary inconvenience to Mr K, so I 
wont be asking TSB to pay any compensation.
Ref: DRN23251153my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2325115