K820x#14complaint
Ms L and Mr M complain  that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) has unfairly  declined  a claim they 
made under their buildings insurance policy.
background
In November 2018 Ms L and Mr M moved  into a new home. And around this time they 
renewed their buildings insurance policy  with UKI to cover the property. A few months after 
moving in, Ms L and Mr M noticed that their drains  were blocked. They instructed a local 
company to carry out a CCTV survey of the drains  who found they were  badly  blistered  and 
needed to be replaced. So Ms L and Mr M contacted UKI to make a claim. 
In February 2019  UKI appointed a drainage expert  company  to carry out its own CCTV 
survey  well call it Company A. Company A said that the drains were pitch  fibre which had 
delaminated and the surfaces  were  very rough. It said that there didnt seem to be any 
evidence of tree roots,  but it couldnt rule out the pipe not being  crushed by roots.
UKI said pitch fibre pipes were often  used in the 1950s and 1960s and are inherently  
defective. They said that this is because, over time, they can distort  and collapse and 
generally have  a much shorter  life than pipes made from clay or heavy duty plastic. UKI said 
the policy specifically  excludes cover for damage that happens gradually, so the damage to 
the pitch fibre pipes wasnt covered. It said that the drainage cover aspect of the policy  
explains itll only provide  cover for accidental damage to the drains. And because  this 
damage wasnt accidental  it declined Ms L and Mr Ms claim. 
Ms L and Mr M complained to UKI about its decision and said they couldnt have known they 
had pitch fibre pipes. They highlighted policy wording  theyd  seen which says theyre not 
covered for gradual operating damage  that they ought to have been  aware  of and was 
reasonable for them to have prevented. 
As Ms L and Mr M had only owned  the property for a few months, they said they couldnt 
have known about, or prevented the gradual damage to their pipes. They  also complained  
that UKI had failed  to correctly update their address when they moved into the property.
UKI upheld  the complaint in part. It agreed  the service from its sales  team had been poor, 
and that itd failed to update Ms L and Mr Ms address  details correctly.  It offered £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused.  
But it maintained its position on the claim.  It said its policy terms had been updated to 
exclude any damage that happened gradually.  And itd spoken  with Company A and been 
assured that the damage to Ms L and Mr Ms drains  was because of the pitch fibre pipes. So 
it was satisfied the claim had been fairly  declined  for the reasons itd already explained.
Ms L and Mr M brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator initially agreed  that 
the claim had been unfairly declined. But after considering UKIs response to this opinion, he 
changed his mind and decided not to uphold the case. 
The investigator explained its not uncommon  for insurance policies not to cover damage  to 
pitch fibre pipes because  its known that these  pipes can suffer from gradual damage.  He 
was satisfied the policy terms had been  sufficiently brought to Ms L and Mr Ms attention.  So 
he didnt think UKI had unfairly  declined the claim. He also thought £150 compensation was 
a fair amount for UKIs poor service.
Ref: DRN26527402Ms L and Mr M disagreed with the investigators  findings and maintained  theyd been given a 
poor service throughout the claims process.  So the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to decide is whether UKI was entitled to decline Ms L and Mr Ms claim, 
and whether thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
Ill start by addressing  what  cover the policy  actually  provides Ms L and Mr M in relation to 
their drains. When assessing the claim,  UKI has pointed to page nine of Ms L and Mr Ms 
policy document which says cover  is provided  for; accidental damage to underground 
drains, pipes, cables and tanks which you are legally responsible for and which provide 
services to or from your home. But like all insurance policies, this cover  is subject  to certain 
terms, conditions and exclusions. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy terms as sudden and unintentional physical 
damage that happens unexpectedly. Based on the reports  and supporting  information Ive 
seen in this case, Im satisfied the damage to Ms L and Mr Ms drain is most likely as a result 
of deterioration  to the pitch fibre pipes. And its relatively well known  that pitch fibre pipes 
can be more susceptible  to damage  that can develop and worsen over time. 
So I dont  think the damage thats  occurred to Ms L and Mr Ms drainage pipe meets  the 
definition of accidental  damage,  and so isnt covered under the term that UKI has pointed to. 
And I cant see that its covered anywhere else in the policy. So Im satisfied UKI fairly  
declined Ms L and Mr Ms claim.
Im aware that Ms L and Mr M say theres no way they couldve known  or prevented the 
gradual damage as theyd  only lived in the property for a few months  before finding  out 
about it. And they say the terms and conditions theyve seen, say that they would need to 
have known about it for it to be not to be covered.  So they think  the gradual  damage 
exclusion has been unfairly applied.
But I dont think these  points make a difference in the specific circumstances of this case. I 
say this because, even  if UKIs policy terms did still make provision for lack of knowledge  in 
relation to the gradual damage  exclusion  which they dont, this isnt the only reason 
Ms L and Mr Ms claim has been  declined.
UKI has also pointed to the fact that the drainage cover under  the policy only covers  
Ms L and Mr M for accidental damage. And weve  already established the damage  that 
occurred in this case wasnt  accidental.
Instead the evidence shows its likely itd been  happening gradually and for some  time 
before Ms L and Mr M purchased the property. So it never wouldve been covered under  the 
policy they have  with UKI  whether they knew about it or not when  buying  their house. So 
these points dont  change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN26527403Im aware UKI failed to update Ms L and Mr Ms address correctly.  And there was a delay in 
it receiving the drainage  report  from Company  A, which  subsequently  meant  that 
Ms L and Mr M had to wait longer than they were  promised to receive a copy  of its findings.  
UKI has explained that the address error was due to a system failure because  the change  of 
address and renewal  was occurring around  the same time.  And it admitted that 
Company As report shouldve been  available sooner than it was.
UKI didnt  provide the level of service  it shouldve to Ms L and Mr M when updating their 
address. Its apologised for this and offered £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
this poor service caused. Based  on the information  Ive seen in this case, I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to 
increase this further.
Im aware the decision Ive reached in this case will likely come as a disappointment to 
Ms L and Mr M. But I hope  they can understand why Ive concluded that this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that U K Insurance  Limited should pay 
Ms L and Mr M £150 compensation  if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2652740