K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about blocks  placed  on his account  by Revolut Ltd and the service  he 
received afterwards.
background
Mr N opened a Revolut  account and uploaded his ID, but his account  wouldnt open and he 
had to open another account for his wages.  Mr N said that Revolut  then said his account 
was active but after he made payments and topped-up the account it was blocked again. 
Revolut unblocked  Mr Ns account,  but later blocked it again. Mr N said Revolut asked him 
for a picture of his passport held next to his face, but he said he found  this demeaning and 
not a regulatory requirement  and asked for his funds to be returned. He said the next day he 
uploaded his image, but Revolut continued  to require his picture with his passport.
Mr N said Revoluts ID requirement  isnt mentioned  anywhere on its website. And it took 27 
hours to unblock  his account during which time he couldnt pay rent and had to borrow from 
a friend.  He complained about  poor communications and lack of assistance from Revolut.
Revolut said Mr Ns account  was blocked by its automated system and unblocked the same  
day. When Mr Ns account blocked  again  Revolut requested his photo with passport. Revolut 
said Mr N wouldnt  cooperate and it couldnt unblock his account. It said Mr N asked for his 
funds to be returned, and it did this. Revolut  said it acted in accordance with its legal and 
regulatory obligations as reflected by the following terms  and conditions of the account.
7.1. You agree to cooperate with all requests made  by us or any of our third party service 
providers on our behalf in connection with your Revolut Account, to identify or authenticate 
your identity or validate your funding sources or Revolut Transactions. This may include, but 
not limited to, requesting further information that will allow Revolut to reasonably identify you, 
including requiring you to take steps to confirm ownership of your phone  number or payment 
instruments or verifying your Information  against  third party databases  or other sources.
7.2. We reserve the right to close, suspend,  or limit access to your Revolut Electronic Money 
Account and/or the Revolut  Services in the event we are unable to obtain, verify such  
information or you do not comply with our requests under  7.1 of these  Terms.
Mr N said Revolut photo request wasnt in its terms and isnt a regulatory requirement. Mr N 
wants Revolut to pay him compensation for requesting identification it already held and for 
the poor service  and communications he received, causing him worry and inconvenience.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  saying  Mr N agreed to the terms 
and although they dont  mention every  scenario  they do state: You  agree to cooperate  with 
all requests made by us [] to identify or authenticate your identity.  He said its a general 
requirement for banks  to know their customers, and the request is reasonable, particularly 
for Revolut  as an internet bank. He said Revolut  wasnt aware that Mr N no longer wanted 
an account so it didnt have to suggest  the return of his funds.  
Mr N disagreed with the investigator, saying  hed received differing information about the 
requirement for a picture of his passport  held next to his face.  He said some  banks use other 
means to check their customers ID, and Revolut  didnt mention its requirement in its terms. 
Ref: DRN26240432Mr N said Revolut hadnt confirmed that it had logged his complaint and as it knew he 
wouldnt be sending the photo it required, it should  have offered to return  his funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N was unhappy that Revolut blocked  his account  and for its service  afterwards. Ive 
looked carefully at Revoluts  decisions  and handling of Mr Ns account to see if it followed its 
procedures and treated him fairly.  
From Revoluts terms and conditions its clear it has the authority to review, block  and close 
customer accounts. Revolut, in common with all banks, can take this action  without giving 
their customer reasons. 
Banks are required to check the identity of their customers and they have legal and 
regulatory obligations to follow. But its up to each bank to decide how they comply with 
these requirements and Revolut is entitled to verify Mr Ns identity with a picture of his 
passport held next to his face. Im not aware  of any restriction on this methodology from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, Revoluts regulator. The investigator described the role of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, and said that since Mr Ns concerns were  mostly about the 
regulations, he might  like to make contact  with the financial regulator.
I disagree with Mr N that Revoluts requirement for a picture  of his passport held next to his 
face should be specifically stipulated in the terms of the agreement. I think this is adequately 
provided for by the term of the account which states: You  agree to cooperate with all 
requests made by us [] to identify  or authenticate your identity. 
Im sorry  that Mr N feels that taking a picture  of his passport held next to his face is 
demeaning, as opposed  to a picture  of himself, which he provided.  Revolut  has explained 
that by asking its customers to do this it can determine  they're  in possession of the ID 
documents, and that they're not presenting  a copy.  Had Mr N cooperated I think  his account  
would have been unblocked straightaway. I agree with the investigator  that Revolut made a 
reasonable request.
I can understand that Mr N being without his funds  caused  him hardship and difficulty  in 
paying his rent. Mr N said Revolut should  have offered  to return his funds, but from the 
record of communications  between  the parties I think  Revolut was attempting to resolve  his 
issues rather than exiting  the relationship. Once Mr N requested  his funds, they were 
immediately returned  to him. 
I can see that Mr N felt uncertain about Revoluts complaint process. I dont think  much  
inconvenience was caused by the time it took Mr N to log his complaint as there was little 
delay, and I dont  think Revolut treated him unreasonably.  
In conclusion, Revolut  is allowed  to review and close a customers  account, and may ask for 
further information to satisfy its verification  process  in the format that it did. I havent seen 
that Revolut caused avoidable  delays in its dealings with Mr N and it was clear about what 
he had to do to raise a complaint. I think Revolut has treated Mr N fairly in its decisions and 
handling of his account.
Ref: DRN26240433my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2624043