K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent irresponsibly  
when it approved a £2,000 loan in March  2018.  
Background
Mrs R applied for a £2,000 loan with Likely Loans  on 1 March  2018. Mrs R told Likely  Loans  
she was employed  with an income  of £30,000 a year. Likely  Loans  also completed a credit 
check and reviewed the application. Likely Loans  says Mrs Rs application  passed  its lending 
assessment and was approved. 
Mrs R made  her initial payments by direct debit but in July 2018  she cancelled  the payment 
instruction. Mrs R missed some payments and on 2 October 2018 Likely Loans agreed to 
accept a reduced payment of £5. This payment arrangement has continued. 
Mrs R complained about Likely Loans  decision to lend and it responded on 7 November 
2018. Likely Loans didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly  and said it had completed 
reasonable checks before deciding to proceed. Mrs R referred her complaint  to our service  
and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator didnt think Likely Loans had lent 
irresponsibly so didnt  uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. In response to the investigator Mrs R said it 
should have been clear  to Likely Loans that the proposed loan wasnt affordable. Mrs R said 
its not clear what information Likely Loans  saw on her credit file but forwarded  bank  
statements to show her regular outgoings. As Mrs R didnt accept the investigators view her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mrs Rs bank  statements and credit file. Likely Loans has also sent us a copy 
of Mrs Rs credit file from around the time she complained. Whilst I appreciate its not the 
same as when she applied in March 2018,  the information Ive seen is broadly in line with 
what Mrs R has sent in. I can see that Mrs R has struggled to maintain her debts and missed  
payments that were  due. But I need to decide  whether Likely  Loans decision to approve the 
loan application  in March 2018  was reasonable, based on what  it knew about her. 
Before a lender  decides to approve a loan it should  conduct a reasonable level of checks. 
Theres no specific list of things a lender  has to take into account  in its loan application 
process. But businesses  will generally  look at someones credit file and ask questions about 
their personal and financial circumstances to ensure the proposed  loan payments are 
sustainable. 
In this case, Likely Loans completed a credit  search on Mrs R. Ive seen the information 
Likely Loans obtained from Mrs Rs credit file on 1 March 2018 and it showed  she had 
around £7,100  in debt with nine active credit  commitments.  But active credit commitments 
can include  utilities and mobile  phone contracts as well. The application shows Mrs Rs 
application was credit scored by Likely Loans  systems and passed.  In addition, Mrs Rs 
application said she earned £30,000. 
Ref: DRN24346902Likely Loans has pointed  out that based  on an income of £30,000  the existing credit 
commitments appeared affordable in addition  to the new monthly loan payment of £131.  I 
appreciate that in hindsight, the loan didnt prove  to be affordable but Im satisfied from the 
evidence Ive seen  that Likely Loans did complete  proportionate checks  when considering 
whether the loan payments were  sustainable for the term. Based on what  it knew  about  
Mrs R at the point of application, I think  Likely Loans decision was reasonable. 
When borrowers experience financial difficulties lenders should be positive and sympathetic.  
Ive looked at what Likely Loans  did after Mrs R told it about  problems maintaining  payments 
and her financial difficulties. Likely Loans has agreed to accept substantially reduced  
monthly payments  of £5, compared against  a contractual  monthly payment of £131.  I think  
that shows Likely Loans is willing to work with Mrs R and provide support. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs R as I can see how strongly she feels  in this matter. But Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that Likely Loans decision to approve her loan application was 
reasonable based on what  it knew about her at the time. And I think its given positive and 
sympathetic support to Mrs R since it learned she wasnt able to maintain payments. As I 
havent found anything to show Likely Loans  has treated Mrs R unfairly or made  a mistake 
Im not telling it to take any further action  to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2434690