K821x#15complaint
A representative, on behalf  of Mr B, is complaining about a card terminal  machine that they 
say was mis-sold by Payzone  UK Limited.  
background
In September  2017 Mr B entered  into a hire agreement for a card acceptance service. 
On 11 July 2018 Mr B contacted Payzone to advise that he wanted to cancel  his agreement.  
He was told he couldnt just cancel the agreement at any time.  He was told he needed to 
give Payzone notice  for the agreement  to be cancelled upon  completion of the minimum 
period of 12 months. 
Mr B was unhappy with the situation  and told Payzone he was informed by their agent that 
he could cancel the agreement at any time without charge.  After  investigating the situation  
Payzone agreed that their agent had told Mr B this. But they advised that this simply meant 
he could terminate the contract  in accordance with the terms and conditions of his 
agreement. 
Mr B cancelled his direct  debit around October  2018. And after non payment the agreement 
was terminated  with fees in December 2018.
An investigator has already considered this case. Overall he felt that whilst it was likely Mr B 
had signed the agreement  paperwork,  he felt Mr B was given misleading information by the 
sales agent acting  for Payzone  in respect  of the contract termination process. The 
investigator felt Payzone should  -
refund  any monthly instalments after the original date that Mr B requested to cancel 
his agreement;
cancel all remaining fees, and 
rectify  any adverse  information held on Mr Bs credit file
Mr B accepted the investigators view. But Payzone didnt. In light of this, the case  has been 
referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Just like the investigator I think it likely, on balance of the evidence,  that Mr B did sign the 
agreement paperwork.  The signature  does appear  to be that of Mr B. Mr B claims that he 
was told by the sales agent that providing  an email address was mandatory. However Mr B 
says he told the sales agent that the email  account wasnt active  at the time and therefore he 
couldnt access anything  sent to the email address. Whilst I note Mr B says he never 
received this paperwork, Im satisfied that Payzone did send a copy  of the key 
documentation to an email address which had been  provided to them  by Mr B. 
What I have more concern with is what happened between Mr B and the sales agent on 
behalf of Payzone. Mr B is adamant that the sales representative made no reference  to any 
terms and conditions. Overall I do find Mr Bs testimony to be very credible. Especially when 
Ref: DRN23586352having considered the account notes and also the fact that Mr B had previously explained  
that due to being self employed, he wasnt sure how long hed require  the card acceptance 
service for. 
On balance of all the evidence I think that there  was confusion when the agent sold the card 
acceptance service to Mr B. I dont believe Mr B would have entered  into this agreement  if 
the terms and conditions had been clearly explained  to him. Im confident  Mr B relied on 
what the agent said to him when entering  into the agreement. I therefore uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Payzone  UK Limited  must 
1.refund  any monthly instalments after 11 July 2018  this being the original date that 
Mr B requested to cancel  his agreement;
2.cancel all remaining fees, and 
3.rectify  any adverse  information held on Mr Bs credit file. 
If Mr B hasnt  yet returned the card terminal to Payzone UK Limited, he should ensure that 
this is done. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of Mr B, to accept or reject  my decision before 24 January 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2358635