K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained that Amigo Loans  Ltd (Amigo) shouldnt  have  allowed  her to be a 
guarantor on a loan.
Mrs O is represented by her husband, Mr O, who has brought the complaint on her behalf.
background
In April 2018, Mrs O agreed  to stand as a guarantor on a loan for Mrs H - who is known to 
Mr and Mrs O.
The initial application was made online, Mrs O had to complete an income  and expenditure 
assessment and digitally sign to say she understood her responsibilities as a guarantor. Mrs 
O also had phone calls with Amigo in which  her responsibilities as a guarantor  were 
discussed, as well as her financial circumstances and mental health.
In one of these calls Mrs O was asked about her source of income as Amigo  could see that 
she was receiving a disability allowance. It asked questions about her health  and Mrs O told 
Amigo that she suffered  from an anxiety  condition but this was something she managed  and 
she wasnt currently receiving any medical  support for it.
After Mrs O had passed Amigos checks that she was a suitable guarantor, it arranged for 
the loan to be paid into Mrs Os account for her to transfer to Mrs H. Mrs O was given 14 
days here to return the loan and for the agreement to be cancelled if she wished to do so.
In July 2018, Mr O contacted Amigo  to say that it had acted irresponsibly in allowing Mrs O 
to act as a guarantor. Mr O has provided  Amigo and this service  with evidence that suggests 
Mrs Os mental  health condition is more severe than she told Amigo. Mr O has told us that 
Mrs O isnt capable of making complex financial decisions and that he manages  her 
finances. This is supported by a doctors  note. Mr O has also said Mrs H coerced Mrs O into 
acting as a guarantor for her.
Since the complaint has been  raised, it appears Mrs H has had difficulty  in keeping  up 
repayments and Amigo has contacted  Mrs O to tell her the status of the account. Mr O has 
told us that it appears that Mrs H has reached an agreement to make  the repayments  but he 
wants Mrs O to be taken off the loan as a guarantor as the situation causes her stress and 
affects her mental health.
Amigo has told us that at the time the loan was setup it was entitled to rely on the 
information it was given. And that it carried out a number of checks on Mrs Os suitability as 
a guarantor. It said its agents are trained to pick up on signs  of coercion but this wasnt  
present in Mrs Os calls. And there  was no sign she was unhappy with anything. Mrs O 
confirmed that she understood her responsibilities and understood she may be called on to 
repay the loan.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Amigo  had done  anything wrong in 
allowing Mrs O to act as a guarantor on the loan.  Mr O disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN20111512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to say that Im sorry to hear of the situation that Mr and Mrs O have found 
themselves in, and that this is causing  stress  and worry. 
Mr O has told us that Mrs H often  took Mrs O out for the day. And that it was during these 
occasions that Mrs H took advantage of Mrs Os mental state to get her to act as a 
guarantor, so that she could take out a loan. 
Mr O says that it was Mrs H that told Mrs O what to say during the calls and helped Mrs O to 
fill in the online application. Mr O has also provided us with evidence that shows  that Mrs Os 
mental health condition is more severe  than what Mrs O described  to Amigo in the calls. 
Hes also provided us with a doctors  note saying that he manages her finances  for her. Ive 
got no reason  to doubt what Mr O has told us and hes provided evidence  of Mrs Os mental 
health condition.  What Ive got to decide is whether Amigo  did anything wrong based on the 
information they had at the time in allowing Mrs O to act as a guarantor on Mrs Hs loan.
Having a mental health condition does not mean that a person shouldnt  have  access to 
financial products, in fact for a business  to make a decision  based on having a condition  
alone would  be discriminatory. What needs to be considered by a business  is whether the 
person has the capacity  to make their own decisions and can understand the product that 
they are taking out.
In terms of Mr O has told us about how Mrs H influenced Mrs O into acting as a guarantor -  
our services  approach  is that wed only say a business has done something wrong if it knew  
or ought to have  known that a person  was being  unduly influenced.  So to decide  if Amigo  
has done anything  wrong, I need to look at when the loan was completed  if Amigo  ought to 
have known that Mrs O was being unduly influenced. And whether they ought  to have known 
that she didnt  have the capacity to act as a guarantor.
Ive seen the information provided to Mrs O before agreeing to be a guarantor. And Ive 
listened to the calls she had with Amigo following the completion of the online assessment 
but prior to the loan being agreed.  I think in all of these calls, Amigo  were clear on what    
Mrs Os responsibilities  were as guarantor. She confirmed she understood this, so I cant 
see any reason why Amigo wouldve thought Mrs O wasnt aware of, or didnt understand 
her responsibilities as a guarantor.
I think the call handler  at Amigo went to great lengths to ensure that Mrs O understood what  
she was taking on. The call handler  made Mrs O repeat back the key information  around the 
loan and asked  her on a number of occasions  if she understood her responsibilities. At times 
Mrs O couldnt immediately recall  the figures  involved but the figures were then clarified with 
her. And in the call before the loan was paid, Mrs O was able to remember the total loan 
figure, the loan repayment period and the approximate monthly  loan repayment  figure.  So in 
terms of checking  Mrs Os understanding of the loan and providing clear and easy to 
understand information, I think  Amigo  did as much as could be reasonably expected  of it. 
When I listened to the calls, Mrs O presented as someone who seemed happy with the 
arrangement. I didnt get the impression that Mrs O was being pressured into doing 
Ref: DRN20111513something, or that she was unhappy with the figures involved or her potential  responsibilities  
in terms of repayment. 
It maybe that Mrs O was being  coached through these phone  calls but if this was the case  I 
dont think the call handler at Amigo wouldve known this. It wasnt  obvious to me when I 
listened to the calls,  so I cant say that Amigo did something wrong in relying on the 
information that Mrs O gave to it.
The one thing  that I did notice that did seem a little out of the ordinary was that Mrs O 
seemed a bit concerned about  letters regarding the loan being  sent to her home address. 
She said it was private matter and asked if the letters could be sent to another address. But 
when Amigo said it had to send these letters to her home address, she accepted this.
With the knowledge of what Mr O has told us, I can see why this might have been  a sign 
something wasnt right. But at the time Amigo wouldnt have been aware of the situation that 
Mr O has explained. So I dont think this wouldve  been enough  for it to have thought  
something was wrong or that Mrs O was potentially being unduly influenced.
Mr O says that there were  earlier  calls that Amigo hasnt  provided where Mrs O was too 
confused to continue the call and Mrs H took over. Amigo says it doesnt have a record of 
these calls and so unfortunately  Im unable to draw  any conclusions based on this. And we 
do have the later calls following the online application where Mrs O is able to discuss  the 
situation seemingly  on her own.
In terms of Mrs Os mental health  condition  and capacity to make decisions, Amigo  did ask 
questions about  Mrs Os condition and Mrs O told them the name of her condition.  Amigo 
asked what effect  it had on her, how it was managed and if she received ongoing support for 
this condition. Mrs O said that it was managed by going for walks,  that she sometimes  had 
bad days but that the condition was mostly just anxiety in talking to people.  Having listened 
to the calls I dont  think  what Mrs O told Amigo shouldve reasonably given Amigo cause to 
think that Mrs O didnt  have the capacity to act as a guarantor.
Mr O has provided  us with a lot of information  about  Mrs Os mental health. But as Ive said 
mental health issues on their own arent a reason to decline a persons application for a 
product. And Amigo could  only go on the information  that they had at the time. The name of 
the condition that Mrs O gave Amigo, having looked  up its symptoms seems  to broadly 
match what  Mrs O told Amigo  about her condition.  So I dont think  Amigo wouldve thought 
that Mrs Os mental health  was likely  more  serious than the anxiety  she described. 
Had Amigo had the full picture of Mrs Os circumstances  it might have come to a different 
conclusion but it was entitled to rely on the information it was given at the time. And I think it 
did sufficient checks and asked enough  questions to find out about  Mrs Os circumstances.
Mr O has also raised  questions  about the affordability of the loan. But I can see that Amigo  
carried out its standard procedures to check if there were any affordability issues, including  
an online  assessment  and a phone conversation with Mrs O about her income and 
expenditure. 
Amigo also changed the repayment period so that any potential repayments that Mrs O 
would need to make, would be more manageable and in line with her disposable income. 
Amigo asked a number  of questions about  Mrs Os financial circumstances and based on 
Ref: DRN20111514the information it was given, I dont think it did anything  wrong  in concluding  Mrs O was 
financially able to take on this commitment.
Mrs O said she had no mortgage,  she explained  her monthly financial commitments and 
what was split between  her and Mr O. Amigo checked that what Mrs O had told them  was 
realistic in relation  to national averages. Having looked at the information  Amigo  had about 
Mrs Os financial  circumstances  I dont think there was anything that wouldve raised any 
concerns about  Mrs Os ability to repay the loan.  
Ultimately, I think  that Amigo did sufficient checks on Mrs Os suitability to act as a 
guarantor. Whilst  it knew  Mrs O had a mental  health condition, I think it did enough to check  
that Mrs O understood  what she was taking on and that her mental health wouldnt affect her 
ability to repay the loan.  Mr O has told us that Mrs O was coerced into acting  as a guarantor  
but I dont think  Amigo  wouldve  known this at the time. And as Ive said I can only consider 
what Amigo wouldve known at the time and not information supplied  later when deciding it if 
it did something wrong.
So in conclusion, I have  sympathy with Mr and Mrs Os situation.  And I hope  that 
repayments are kept up so that Mrs Os position as guarantor  isnt required. But I cant  say 
that Amigo did something wrong  as it acted in good  faith based  on the information Mrs O 
provided. I am satisfied  that it carried out sufficient  checks to find out as much as it could 
about Mrs Os circumstances and I dont think it wouldve known if Mrs O was being unduly  
influenced.
So it follows  that I dont  uphold Mrs Os complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O on behalf of 
Mrs O to accept  or reject my decision before  7 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2011151