K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  his claim for 
medical assistance under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr L was on holiday in the Far East when he injured his ankle on a zip wire activity.  He was 
taken to hospital where he was told his ankle was severely sprained. The tour operator  paid 
his hospital expenses.
Mr L then asked UKI to provide assistance.  It told him in view of his lack of capacity he 
couldnt continue  with his holiday.  But unfortunately, it then failed to communicate  effectively  
with Mr L and organise things for him. 
Mr L complained. UKI agreed it service to Mr L whilst on holiday could have been better and 
it paid him £500  compensation  for this. Unfortunately, it then delayed  dealing with his claim 
when he returned  to the UK. Mr L complained about that and it paid him £300 compensation. 
It also delayed in sending  him a breakdown showing how it paid his claim. So UKI paid him 
£50 compensation  for that.
Mr L also availed of the legal expenses part of his policy but received poor customer  service 
from the solicitors UKI referred him to. So UKI paid him £100  compensation for that. But then 
UKI delayed  in sending that cheque to Mr L, so it then paid a further £25 for that delay.
Mr L remained unhappy with the service UKI provided to him and brought  his complaint to 
us. The adjudicator thought UKI should  pay Mr L a further £200 compensation for the 
distress, trouble  and upset it caused  him throughout his request for medical assistance 
whilst he was on holiday. UKI didnt agree so Mr Ls complaint  has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I understand all the rest of Mr Ls various complaints emanating from the poor service  he 
received to include his claim for various  expenses have now been paid by UKI. Therefore, 
the only remaining  issue concerns the adjudicators  recommendation for UKI to pay a further 
£200 compensation for the service Mr L received when he was on holiday.
I appreciate UKIs concerns that it has paid Mr L a total of £975  compensation but £475  of 
that concerned  issues that arose  in UKIs  handling  of his claim and complaints once he was 
back in the UK, which should have been avoidable,  given it was UKI handling that rather 
than its agents  abroad.  So I dont agree that its reasonable to just look at the total amount of 
compensation UKI has paid Mr L for its various  failing throughout not just his claim, but also 
the handling of his complaints. 
Mr L and his wife were on a trip of a lifetime,  which included staying in more  than one place. 
Despite his then treating  doctors providing him with fitness to fly certificates  so he could 
Ref: DRN24135692continue with his itinerary, he was made  to stay put for what  I consider to be no good 
reason. And then left in a hotel lobby with no accommodation and he had to arrange his 
own. He was supposed to be flown to the capital for further treatment, but this then was 
undertaken locally. 
There was no need for the medical  assistance  to be so chaotic for Mr L. Whilst he was 
incapacitated with his ankle injury,  efforts should have been made to either provide the care 
he needed, or accommodate the rest of his holiday, given the fitness to fly his treating 
doctors were  willing to give him. There was no excuse at all, for failing to have to his correct 
email address, given  the number of emails  Mr L sent. This meant  Mr L wasnt  being 
communicated with when  he most  needed to be.
Therefore in the very particular  circumstances  of this complaint, I consider the adjudicators  
recommendation to increase the compensation award for this element of Mr Ls complaint by 
£200 to be reasonable  and more in line with what I tend to award in similar circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr L a further £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  its failure of service  caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2413569