K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains because  Erudio Student Loans  Limited have kept information about a loan 
that was taken out in his name. He also complains that Erudio have  passed  this information 
to credit reference agencies.
background
In the mid to late 1990s, three separate student loans were taken out in Mr Fs name. The 
lender was a third party, associated with a government scheme for student borrowing, who 
Ill call A. Repayment for the loans could be deferred if the borrower completed  a form, 
showing their earnings  to be below a specified threshold. Erudios research with A led them 
to say the deferral  process wasnt completed in 2002, so the loans  became  payable from 
that year.
The loans went unpaid and Erudio  say A spoke with Mr F in 2005 and arranged for a deferral 
form to be sent to him. Erudio also say that the deferral form wasnt returned to A, so Mr F 
was pursued for repayment. Mr F says he didnt  make  contact  with A and disputed that he 
ever took out the borrowing.
Many years later, in March 2014, Erudio sent Mr F a letter  to say that the loans had been 
reassigned to them from A, and he should  contact  them to make repayment  arrangements.  
A also sent Mr F a letter on the same day, outlining a refund of interest, due to an error 
theyd made.
Erudio didnt hear back from Mr F and in November 2016, passed the outstanding debt to a 
debt recovery agent. But, by September 2018  Erudio had taken the debt back and after 
tracing Mr F, wrote  to him. Mr F wasnt happy and complained to Erudio about them 
contacting him about the loans, and that they still held information about him. 
In their final response, Erudio said that the debt from the loans was now statute barred, 
which meant they were  no longer pursuing Mr F for repayment. But, a record would be kept 
showing that the loans were unpaid. They also said the debt was assigned to them  correctly 
from A, in line with the terms and conditions of the loans. Furthermore, Erudio explained that 
as the deferral process was not continued,  the repayment of the loan would  still be due, 
despite a borrower  passing 50 years of age.
Mr F didnt  accept this and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
the matter and concluded that Mr F took out the loans, and that it was reasonable for Erudio 
to keep a record  of the debt. A different investigator  reached a similar conclusion, but added  
that the debt was transferred to Erudio correctly. He said,  Erudio were  no longer pursuing 
Mr F for the debt. So, he didnt think it necessary  to ask them to make  further  concessions  
because of Mr Fs, and his fathers, ill health.  The investigator didnt find that Mr F had been 
bullied by Erudio, or that the debt should have been  deleted because of his age.
Mr F didnt  agree and said as the debt is statute  barred,  there  should  be no record of it. He 
also said he didnt speak  with A in 2005.  Mr F wanted As error  with the interest  in 2014, and 
the bullying  he says he received from Erudio,  looked  into further.
The investigator didnt  change his conclusions, but he explained more about  the wording 
used in As loan account statements to Mr F. He said if the wording wasnt correct  in those 
statements, then the interest charged, needed  to be refunded. The investigator said that this 
Ref: DRN20197132was the likely reason  for the refund. Mr F didnt  accept  this, and his case  has now been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the loan agreement forms and debt reassignment  to Erudio
Erudio have provided us with copies  of the three original loan agreement  forms. They  are 
signed using either Mr Fs first initial and his surname, or his full name.  They also include  
direct debit details to an account in the same  name.  In addition, Ive seen  that the addresses 
used by A match the addresses on the loan agreement  forms. Also, I think Mr F has 
indicated to us that he shouldnt be connected anymore to the debt, due to his age and his 
health circumstances. Mr F has subsequently  brought  concerns to us about the refund  
applied by A, when  the debt was transferred to Erudio.
I think the information on the loan agreement forms and the process  the borrower had to go 
through to defer the loans  in 1998, 1999 and 2001 means its unlikely anyone accept Mr F, 
agreed to the borrowing.  I think Mr F has told us about other issues to do with the 
administration of the loans and several reasons why he thinks Erudio should  delete the 
information they hold about him. 
Im not persuaded that this would be the case,  if Mr Fs concerns were simply about  
someone else taking  out the loans in his name. Taking everything into consideration, on 
balance, I think its fair for Erudio to conclude Mr F took out the borrowing from A.
The debt from the loans was reassigned to Erudio in March 2014. Mr F says hes unhappy  
with As decision to do this and that he didnt consent to it. Our role is to consider if Erudio 
treated Mr F fairly when the debt was reassigned, rather  than to look into negotiations A had 
with them  about  the sale of multiple  accounts.
The terms and conditions  of the loan agreements say that A could  transfer their rights  under 
the agreement  to another party without Mr Fs consent. Ive also considered that when 
Erudio began to administer the loans,  they sent a pack to Mr F to set out their revised terms 
and conditions and what Mr F should  do to make  arrangements for the debt. Included in the 
pack was a letter from A to say that theyd arranged  for the reassignment  of the debt. 
So, in all the circumstances,  I think A was able to transfer the debt to Erudio. I also think  
Erudio treated Mr F fairly  by looking to make  contact with him about the future of the loans.
the keeping of records after Erudio classed the debt being statute barred
Mr F says the information kept about the loans by Erudio, stopped  him from getting  finance 
elsewhere. He says this has prevented him from studying further. I agree that evidence  of an 
unpaid loan, may impact  another  lenders  decision to allow  further borrowing. And I 
sympathise with Mr F, in light of the effect  he says this will have on his future plans to study.
Erudio say that the debt from the loans  is now statute barred. This means  Erudio have 
decided not to pursue Mr F for the debt. Our role is not to decide  whether or not the debt is 
Ref: DRN20197133statute barred, as that is for Erudio or a court to say. We will look into the fairness of Erudios 
decision to retain records  of the loans.
The terms and conditions  of the loans and the subsequent revised  terms sent by Erudio, say 
that relevant loan information will be kept and if appropriate, passed on to third parties. So, 
from looking at the terms Mr F agreed to, and Erudios revised terms, I think  there is a 
provision for Erudio to keep and provide information  to parties like credit reference agencies.
Ive considered Mr Fs wish to take out further borrowing to allow  him to study  further, and if 
this means Erudio shouldnt rely on the terms Ive looked at. Ive concluded that its likely 
Mr F did take out the borrowing  and that it wasnt repaid.  So, I think its fair that an accurate 
reflection of what happened  is available,  so other  lenders can use that information in their 
decision making. Whilst I know  Mr F will be disappointed, I think its fair for Erudio to retain a 
record of the previous  loans. And I dont  think what Mr F has told us about his study  plans, 
means Erudio should  make an exception.
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Erudio to keep information about  Mr Fs loans and 
to share  that information with the credit reference agencies they use.
Erudios communication  with Mr F
Ive considered Mr Fs comments where  he says Erudio bullied him during a telephone call. 
He also says Erudios  internal contact  notes about  him, show  they are unprofessional. We 
dont have a record  of the call Mr F refers  to. But, I accept he wasnt happy  with the content 
of the call, since any contact with Erudio  around the time it happened, was likely to have 
been about the recovery of the loans. 
Ive also thought about the communication in general from Erudio  to Mr F, and the nature of 
his responses.  Whilst I can see that there  were  disagreements between  them,  I think 
Erudios tone was reasonable and how they explained things to Mr F was fair. Taking 
everything into consideration,  on balance, I dont think Erudios communication with Mr F 
was bullying in nature. I can understand why Mr F would say a very small sample of the 
internal contact notes  were unprofessional.  An email  between  two staff members  did contain 
an emoji picture. But, I think they were  friendly  messages  between  colleagues, rather  than 
any kind of hurtful message about  Mr F.
Mr Fs health  and his age
During his discussions  with Erudio, Mr F said they should consider his health in their 
decision to retain information  about  the loans. Erudios responsibility is to think  about  Mr Fs 
circumstances and the arrears with the loans, with forbearance and due consideration. This 
means Erudio should  look at any financial difficulty Mr F may be experiencing and suggest a 
reasonable solution. 
However, Erudio have said theyre  not pursuing  Mr F for repayments,  albeit  because  they 
say the debt is statute  barred. So, I think Erudio  have  already taken appropriate  steps to 
consider Mr Fs health and are treating him positively and sympathetically.
Ive concluded  that Erudio  is able to retain  information about the loans and pass  on any 
repayment information to credit  reference  agencies. I sympathise with Mr Fs personal 
circumstances and Ive considered them very carefully. But, I dont think Mr Fs health 
Ref: DRN20197134means Erudio should  stop in their duty to accurately reflect the information they hold, or pass  
on to a credit  reference agency.
Mr F has also said the information about the loans should be removed from any record,  as 
he is now over fifty years  of age. I have looked at the terms and conditions about  deferral 
and age, on the loan agreements. I can see that a repayment deferral needed to be agreed  
in each year,  up to the age of fifty. No deferral application was received for the loans from 
2002 onwards,  and Mr F has said that he didnt ask for any deferrals in this timeframe. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable for Erudio to say that this term no longer applies to the loans 
taken out in Mr Fs name.
the refund  of interest  by A
Mr F says he doesnt know where the refund of interest has come  from.  We dont audit 
accounts for the people who need  to use us. Rather,  we rely on what  evidence each side 
shows us to support  their argument.
Ive looked at all the information available to me. On balance, I think the refund is for the 
interest charged on the loans by A, when they were in the period of non-compliance. But, 
Mr F disputes the amount calculated by A. I think the calculation of the interest refund forms 
part of a separate matter against  A, rather than the actions  of Erudio. Mr F may be able to 
contact them  separately, to pursue  this further  if he wishes.
This complaint is about the information  kept by Erudio  and Mr Fs doubts that the refund was 
ever applied to the outstanding balance of the loans. So, Ive looked  at the annual 
statements and the letters sent to Mr F. 
In As letter to Mr F on 31 March 2014,  they told him that the balance  of his loans  would 
reduce by £1,069.18. In their letter to Mr F, of the same date, Erudio summarised the 
outstanding balances of the three  loans, which  totalled £7,183.51. The following year,  Erudio 
sent an annual  statement  to Mr F which showed  the outstanding balance  of the loans to be 
£5,946.46.
I can see that the overall balance of the three  loans, had been reduced  by slightly more than 
the refund  suggested by A. Whilst I do find it unclear why the refund was more than what  
Mr F was expecting, I think a refund has been completed. So, having considered everything,  
I dont think Erudio need to take further  action with the refund.
Mr Fs subject access request (SAR) to Erudio
Our investigator told Mr F that we cannot  consider  Erudios handling  of his subject access 
request. More recently, Mr F has asked us to comment further on this. I dont think  its our 
role to look into a business responsibilities to provide information  under  a SAR. Mr F may 
wish to take his concerns  about Erudios handling  of his request, to the Information 
Commissioners Office.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Ref: DRN20197135Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2019713