K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Acromas  Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for poor service  in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Someone divided an old three-storey terrace house  into three flats  one on each floor.  Mr S 
owns the top-floor  flat and lets it out to tenants. 
From December 2016 he had an insurance policy to cover the central heating (including an 
annual service) plumbing, drainage and electrics.  Mr S was paying the yearly premium by 
monthly instalments.
The policy provided  for Mr S to pay a fixed fee or policy  excess  of £50.00 for each competed  
repair.
The policy was in the name  of a members organisation.  Acromas  was the insurer  
responsible for dealing  with claims. Where  I refer to the insurer or Acromas  I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold Acromas responsible.
Viewed from the road, the top-floor flat has a bay window on the left and a smaller window to 
the right. To the left of the bay window there  is a vertical downpipe running  from the gutter 
above to the ground below.
Under the smaller window a waste pipe emerges  from what  the insurer has said is the 
kitchen. That pipe runs almost horizontally around  the bottom of the bay window to connect 
with the vertical downpipe.
Mr S called for help with a leak from the waste pipe.  He paid an excess  of £50.00  but 
Acromas declined to help. Mr S stopped paying  his instalments. The insurer cancelled  the 
policy from 26 September 2018.
In a final response letter, Acromas said it wouldnt repair  the waste  pipe because the policy  
excluded incorrectly-installed items and the pipe had been wrongly connected  to discharge 
into a rain water downpipe.
The letter said the insurer  was sending  Mr S a cheque for £25.00 and the excess of £50.00.  
It also said that  after deducting £66.00 for an annual service  it wouldnt do - Mr S still owed 
about £92.63.
Mr S complained that Acromas should waive  that balance.
our investigators opinion
At first our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought there 
wasnt information for him to be persuaded  that Acromas had fairly and reasonably applied 
the exclusion to Mr Ss insurance claim.  He recommended that Acromas should:
1.reinstate the insurance policy (if Mr S wishes to do this); and
Ref: DRN215489122.reimburse Mr S for any repair work  hes since undertaken to get the leak repaired;  
and
3.add interest calculated at a simple rate of 8% per annum from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
After Acromas provided some  photographs and a building  regulations document,  the 
investigator changed his view. He didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He 
thought the insurers decision on Mr Ss claim  was fair and reasonable. He said that the 
waste pipe had been incorrectly installed by virtue of it being connected to the downpipe. 
The investigator said that the balance  of £92.63 relates to the period up to until the 
cancellation of the policy. He couldnt see any reason why this amount shouldnt be payable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Acromas on 21 October  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Even if the pipe was incorrectly installed,  repaired or modified, Acromas had fallen 
short of showing how that resulted in the incident  of the leak. It wasnt  enough for 
Acromas to show that the pipe was leaking and difficult to reach  to do a repair. 
Because of the policy term about  cancellation, I didnt find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Acromas not to ask Mr S to pay the balance of £92.63.
By turning down  his claim unfairly  Acromas was responsible for causing Mr S some 
distress and inconvenience. That included the trouble of having to find someone else 
to repair  the leak  and keeping the tenant informed.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Acromas, my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr S:
1.the amount  of any reasonable  invoice he paid for the repair  of the leak; and
2.simple interest on such amount at a yearly  rate of 8% from the date of Mr Ss 
payment to the date of the insurers refund.  If Acromas considers that its required by 
HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr S 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3.in addition to its payment  of £25.00, a further  £75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S hasnt disagreed  with the provisional  decision. In answer to a question,  we said that he 
will need  to provide the invoice for the repair
Acromas hasnt responded to the provisional  decision  by the extended  deadline.
Therefore I see no reason  to change my view.
Ref: DRN21548913my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was renewed from December 2017. It included the following term:
You will, for a period  of 14 days (28 days following an automatic renewal) from the 
date you receive your policy documentation  or the date cover  commences 
(whichever is the later), have a right to cancel this policy and receive  a refund if;
 you have not made a claim and/or 
 we have  not carried out a service of your  boiler. 
You will not be entitled to a refund if you have made a claim and/or we have carried  
out a service of your boiler.
Beyond the above period, you may cancel this policy  at any time but no refund will 
be provided to you. If you are paying  by instalments you must continue  to pay your 
monthly instalments,  or pay the balance in full.
The policy excluded the following:
6. Any incident relating to the failure of appliances, equipment or facilities which is a 
result of them being incorrectly installed,  repaired or modified.
So the exclusion would only operate  if there  were  not only an incorrect  installation but also a 
failure as a result of that. 
From its records, I see that in early 2018  the insurer  did some  repairs to the central heating 
boiler. That mustve been as a result of a claim.  So Mr S was obliged to pay the instalments 
until he had paid for the whole year even if he cancelled the policy.
From the photographs,  the waste pipe and the downpipe each look like rain water  pipes. 
They arent wide enough to take waste from a conventional toilet.  The pipe coming from the 
kitchen is likely to drain grey  water  from a sink and perhaps a washing machine.
The insurer  has quoted  from an approved  document under the Building Regulations as 
follows:
Contaminated  runoff
3.21 Where any materials which  could  cause pollution are stored or used separate 
drainage systems should be provided. This should  include an appropriate form of 
separator or treatment  system or the flow should be discharged into a system 
suitable for receiving  polluted effluent.
Im not persuaded that this sub-section is about grey water  - or even foul water - from flats.  
The following  sub-section mentions filling station forecourts.
Ref: DRN21548914The approved document  was issued in 2015  under Part H of the Buildings Regulations 2010. 
But I accept Mr Ss statement that the building was converted into flats in the 1980s. So the 
insurer hasnt shown  that the waste pipe from the kitchen was installed, repaired  or modified 
in breach of building  regulations current at that time.
It hasnt offered any other standards  by which the pipe could be judged incorrect.
Even if the pipe was incorrectly installed,  repaired or modified, Acromas has fallen short  of 
showing how that resulted in the incident of the leak. Its not enough for Acromas to show  
that the pipe was leaking and difficult to reach  to do a repair. 
Ive thought about how to put Mr S back in the position he shouldve  been  in.
Because of the policy term about  cancellation, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Acromas not to ask him to pay the balance of £92.63.
But I think Acromas should reimburse  any reasonable invoice that Mr S paid to get someone  
else to repair  the leak. And it should  add interest at our usual rate.
I dont doubt that  by turning down his claim unfairly  Acromas is responsible for causing 
Mr S some distress and inconvenience. That included  the trouble of having to find someone 
else to repair  the leak  and keeping the tenant  informed. Im minded to find £100.00 fair and 
reasonable compensation for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mr S:
1.the amount  of any reasonable  invoice he paid for the repair  of the leak provided that 
within fourteen days of his acceptance of this final decision he sends Acromas the 
invoice for the repair; and
2.simple interest on such amount at a yearly  rate of 8% from the date of Mr Ss 
payment to the date of the insurers refund.  If Acromas considers that its required by 
HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr S 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3.in addition to its payment  of £25.00, a further  £75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2154891