K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that MBNA Limited  has refused  to fully refund her credit  card account 
following a claim for misrepresentation she made  about a holiday accommodation booking.
background
Mrs W paid for a booking for a villa with a supplier Ill call T using her MBNA Limited
(MBNA) credit card. Her credit card statement shows she paid $4,819.11 to T on 2 March
2017 which was converted  to £3,928.75 and that $1,000 of this amount was a deposit that
was paid. The booking  was for seven  nights and for ten guests, which were Mrs W, her
husband and two children, her parents and her sister and family.
When Mrs W and the other members of the party arrived  at the villa, they were unhappy that
it was not a brand new property as described  by the advert on Ts website. Mrs W says the
dcor was tired, there  was a broken door,  the villa was crawling with ants and had numerous
bug traps dotted around. Mrs W also says that two members of the party  had health
conditions which made the villa unsuitable.
Mrs W contacted  T and asked for alternative accommodation. However,  T did not agree to
relocate her and her party. So, they sought  and paid for accommodation  elsewhere.
Mrs W complained  to MBNA when she returned from the holiday asking for a full refund of
the money shed  paid on her credit card. She said that the villa was not brand new as
described by T. MBNA  carried out a chargeback  in line with the card scheme operator rules
under the reason not as described. However,  the chargeback was defended  by T on the
basis that the villa was as described and that brand  new in the context of the advert meant
brand new to their portfolio.
The chargeback was eventually taken to arbitration  where the card scheme operator ruled in
the merchant  acquirers favour. MBNA  then considered Mrs Ws claim for a refund under
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Initially, they said that there wasnt  enough
evidence to show that the villa had been misrepresented.
However, MBNA reassessed the claim and overturned their decision.  They  said that the villa
has been advertised by T as being brand new which turned out to be incorrect and that T
had changed the advert  once Mrs W had complained about it. MBNA also noted that Mrs W
had asked T to relocate her and her party and immediately vacated the villa and sought
alternative accommodation once this was declined. And they also noted that two of the party
of guests had health issues which necessitated changing to different accommodation. 
MBNA offered to refund  Mrs W a third of the amount  shed paid on her credit  card and said 
this was because  their liability only extended  to her and her immediate family, which they 
said was her husband and children.  
MBNA said they would  ask T to return the deposit  Mrs W had paid them and that they would 
refund a third of this if they didnt hear back.  MBNA  also said they would  credit  Mrs Ws 
credit card with £50 for initially declining her Section 75 claim and that it had already  
refunded the non-sterling  transaction fee of £117.46 she had paid for the booking.  
Ref: DRN26134112Mrs W wasnt happy with this and felt she was entitled to a full refund of what shed paid T.
So, she referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said, in summary, that MBNA was 
only liable for Mrs Ws share of the claim,  so in effect one-tenth of the cost of the booking.  
And as MBNA had offered  to refund her a third of the cost taking into account what it 
described as her immediate family, she felt MBNA didnt need to do anything  further.
Mrs W didnt agree and said that definition of immediate family should include her parents 
and sister.  Mrs W asked  for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 February  2021, in which I said the following:
When considering  if MBNA  acted  fairly  and reasonably in how its dealt with Mrs Ws
request for a full refund, I take into account  relevant law. In this case,  Section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  makes MBNA equally liable for a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier. In this case,  T was the supplier.
Debtor-creditor-supplier relationship and the extent of Mrs Ws claim
Firstly, Im satisfied that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place for Mrs W to 
make a Section  75 claim against MBNA. I consider  that Mrs W, as the debtor who made the 
credit card payment, also entered  into a contract  with the supplier of the villa. She says that 
she arranged and carried out the booking  and I note this is supported by the confirmation 
paperwork.
MBNA accepts that Mrs W is able to make  a Section 75 claim, however they say their liability  
is only towards her and none  of the other party members (despite offering  to include some 
immediate family in its offer of a partial  refund).
Ive considered MBNAs position on this, however I am currently minded to disagree with it. I 
will explain  why.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  for bookings on Ts website, albeit these seem to 
postdate when Mrs W booked the accommodation  with T. I will though,  in the absence  of the 
terms and conditions from that time, assume that these  mirror  the ones that were  applicable 
at the time of the booking.  MBNA are welcome to provide  evidence  to the contrary if they 
wish.
I note that Clause 1.1 under the rental agreement  section states that the booking  terms and 
conditions form the basis of your contract with T (my emphasis added).  I cant see that 
your is defined in the contract whereas the same  clause  states  that we or us is intended  to 
refer to T.
Ive looked through the terms and conditions in their entirety and I consider that references in 
the contract  to either you or your to mean whoever made  the booking,  which  in this case 
was Mrs W. I say this primarily  because  I can see that there is also reference in the terms 
and conditions to other  persons involved in the booking. And the wording seems  to 
distinguish between the person making  the booking and the wider group  of people who form 
the other members of the party. In other words, there  are separate references  to you/your 
and to other members  of the party  or you and your party within  the terms and conditions  of 
the contract.
Ref: DRN26134113There are some terms which  indicate that, through Mrs W, the other members of the party 
might have agreed their information was correct and that they would be bound by Ts terms 
and conditions. However, it is clear that Mrs W contracted to book the accommodation with 
T. It follows that regardless of the other  people Mrs W had stay at the villa with her she is 
contractually entitled to make a claim for any refund  as a result of the alleged  
misrepresentation.
Ive considered if Mrs W is out of pocket  for the full amount of the booking costs despite  the 
involvement of third parties  in the stay. Im satisfied having done so that Mrs W is indeed out 
of pocket to this extent.
What refund is due?
Mrs Ws complaint  is that T misrepresented the villa to her as being  brand new when it 
wasnt. For a claim of misrepresentation to be upheld, Mrs W would need to show that the 
villa was misrepresented  to her and that this induced her to enter into the contract with T, to 
the extent that she wouldnt have done so had the representations not been made.
MBNA accepts that T misrepresented the villa to Mrs W and that she is entitled to a remedy  
for this. So, I dont need to consider the merits of this in too much  detail  as this isnt disputed.
However, for completeness, I would add that I find that T did misrepresent the villa to Mrs W. 
Ive seen a copy  of the advert for the villa that was shown on Ts website and this described  
it as being a brand new home.  I note that T sought to clarify  this by saying the villa was 
brand new to its portfolio. But the advert didnt make this clear and I think the average 
person would understand a brand new home  to mean that it had been  recently  built with 
new fixtures,  fittings and furnishings. That evidently  wasnt the case here.
Mrs W has said that she decided to book  this because the villa was brand new. I find her 
explanation plausible. I say this because  I note that Mrs W contacted  T immediately upon 
arrival at the villa to ask them  to find alternative accommodation when  she discovered that it 
wasnt brand  new. When  T did not do so, Mrs Ws father  did that himself. I find that Mrs Ws 
actions here were consistent with her testimony  that the property wasnt suitable  and 
consistent with her specific assertion that the villa being listed as brand new materially 
influenced her to enter into the booking and contract  with T.
I note also that reference  was made to two of the party of guests having health  problems 
which again lends  credence to why Mrs W chose to book a brand new villa with the 
expectation that came with that, rather than say one that was significantly older  and in less 
good condition.
So, I am satisfied that T misrepresented  the villa to Mrs W and that she wouldnt have 
agreed to book this had the true position  been  clear. The issue  to determine  now is what  a 
fair remedy is for Mrs W. The general position on misrepresentation  is that the party 
concerned is put back in the position they would have been in, had the misrepresentation not 
been made. In this case, Mrs W would not have  entered into the contract with T.
Ref: DRN26134114Mrs W says that shes already received the deposit back from T and says she paid that 
amount off her credit card balance when  it was received on 15 May 2018.  I therefore 
provisionally intend to direct  MBNA  to refund Mrs W the full amount she paid T on her credit  
card (although MBNA  can take into account the deposit thats already been refunded), plus 
pay her interest.
I invited Mrs W and MBNA to reply to my provisional  decision.  Mrs W replied saying she 
accepted. MBNA initially asked whether  Mrs W was entitled to the full cost back as they say 
they were told that the cost of the villa was to be split three ways. However, MBNA didnt 
reply afterwards to say whether they agreed with my provisional decision or not although I 
gave them an extension  of time to do so. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
MBNA queried whether Mrs W was entitled  to a full refund of the cost of the villa as they say 
they were told that this was being  split between her and her family. Mrs W has though  said 
that she has paid for the full cost and hasnt received any money  for any part of this. Ive not 
seen any persuasive  evidence that Mrs W has received any money for this. 
I havent had any further submissions from MBNA  other than on this particular point. So, for 
the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint and will be 
directing MBNA to refund Mrs W the full amount she paid T on her credit  card (although  
MBNA can take into account the deposit thats already been refunded), plus pay her interest.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct MBNA  Limited to:
rework Mrs Ws credit card account  as if the payment  of £3,928,75 had not been
made, deducting the deposit refund already received; and 
if this results in a credit balance,  refund this to Mrs W and pay interest  at 8% simple
per year from the date that credit balance  arose,  to the date of settlement.
If MBNA Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2613411