K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the management of her Self Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) by 
James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JH).
background
Mrs W said she opened a SIPP with JH in 2014 solely to buy shares in her employer. She 
paid in £4,000 but hadnt been able to buy any of the shares.  Around  £1,200  of charges  had 
been deducted even though her money  remained in cash. She had problems updating her 
address. She was having problems switching  to another provider and had been told her 
account had been deactivated. She felt the product wasnt suitable for her.
James Hay said the shares  she wanted  to purchase were unquoted.  It said it contacted 
Mrs W in July and August 2014 regarding the investment  but received no reply and the 
application to purchase shares was closed. With respect to the change  of address while it 
updated her address in 2017 Mrs W hadnt  complied  with their terms to do this and it was 
still awaiting  copy documentation from her to allow it to reactivate  the account.  These  issues 
were addressed in 2017 and her compliant was now out of time to come  to the Ombudsman.
With respect to suitability of the SIPP it wasnt authorised or regulated  to provide financial 
advice or comment on the suitability of a particular product.  It seemed  Mrs W set up the 
SIPP without  a financial adviser so it was for her to determine if it was suitable for her. That 
included considering charges. Shed signed  the terms and conditions  and agreed  to be 
bound by them and the schedule of charges.  JH later offered to waive  its fee on transfer out 
subject to Mrs W providing  the documentation it needed.
The adjudicator said she thought JH had made  a reasonable offer.  The adjudicator  said 
Mrs W was out of time for this service to consider the issues  considered in the final response 
letter of October 2017 but there  were  some issues this service could consider. Mrs W didnt 
agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first need to consider which aspects of Mrs Ws complaints this service is able to consider.
In 2017 Mrs W complained about  the delay in her transfer to another  provider, her online 
account inactivation  and change of address. JH issued a final response letter regarding 
these on 13 October 2017. This said she could make a complaint to this service  within  six 
months of the date of the letter. It also said that if she didnt  do so this service would not 
have their permission  to consider the complaint.
There are rules which apply to the complaints  this service can consider. These are set out in 
rules and guidance for this service and rule DISP  2.8. In short this says that a customer  
has six months from the business sending its final response letter to refer their complaint to 
us. Unless we have  the consent of the business  we cannot consider a complaint that is 
referred to us out of time unless in our view the failure to comply  with the time limits is as a 
result of exceptional circumstances. Mrs W understands this complaint is out of time and 
hasnt said there were exceptional circumstances for her failure  to bring  her complaint before 
the six months have  expired.
Ref: DRN22267272I can see that Mrs W first contacted with service  in mid 2018 which  means she was out of 
time to bring a complaint  regarding the matters  considered in that letter.  I am satisfied that 
this service does not have  jurisdiction to consider the matters  covered by that letter  and JH 
hasnt given us consent to do so. 
other complaints
Mrs W complains about a number of things not all of which are covered by October 2017 
final response letter. For the avoidance of doubt  the issues  which  this service cannot 
consider are:-
That JH had delayed  her transfer to another  provider   JH said it had received a 
request on 30 June 2017 but with an incorrect reference so it could not proceed.  No 
further request  was resubmitted.
That her online access has been deactivated due to inactivity  JH said their policy 
was that where  an account had not been  used for 12 months it was deactivated such  
that online access was no longer  active
Verifying her name and address it had received a request from a third party in 2016  
using a different  name. It had tried to contact her by post, email and through  the 
DWP to ask her to confirm and update her information but didnt receive any replies.  
It eventually used  a credit check to enable it to send its letter by post. It needed her 
marriage certificate and copy  passport or driving licence to verify changes. It said she 
could update her address by letter or online and offered contact details to resolve the 
online access issues.
Some issues were not considered in the October  letter and I propose to consider them  here. 
Before doing so I should say that between the time that Mrs W opened her SIPP and the 
final transfer out, she moved house  and got married. She has confirmed that following her 
marriage she now has a bank account in her married name and that is also the name used 
for this complaint.  Her passport however remains in her unmarried name. I note also that the 
SIPP held with JH and with the provider  that has now received  the transfer use her name 
without change by marriage. In early 2016  she considered  a transfer and another provider 
made contact with JH using a new name  and address.  It is this enquiry that seems to have 
sparked JHs requests  for confirmation of the change of address  and also any change  of 
name.
SIPP not suitable
Mrs W complains the SIPP was never suitable  for her. I note that JH didnt advise Mrs W to 
take out the SIPP and isnt authorised or regulated to do so. It doesnt seem she took advice 
from a financial adviser.  In order to open  the account she needed to sign up to terms and 
conditions and the charges schedule and she did that. When she applied  she selected the 
specialist investment option. The notes  regarding this said that specialist investments were 
subject to a vetting process before  any trade. It also referred to a website guide  which  
included information  on unquoted shares. JH emailed her in July and twice in August re the 
purchase as it needed  further information  but she didnt  reply and it closed the application,
Ref: DRN22267273So I think JH it was up to Mrs W to satisfy herself that the SIPP was suitable  for her 
purposes. 
change in internal process
Mrs W says JH changed  their processes  and the investment didnt go ahead. She had only 
opened the account to do this investment and JH was aware of that. She felt they shouldnt 
have opened the SIPP. 
Ive seen the SIPP terms which warn that JH will carry out checks for compliance  with 
HMRC rules  and other rules. In early July 2014  JH contacted Mrs W to say it needed to 
review the investment and needed more  information  from her. In August it checked  whether 
she still wanted to go ahead as her desired date had passed and the account didnt have 
enough money to invest at the level she had requested. It also said it had changed its policy  
so that only 20% of fund value could go into specialist investments. This could  be reviewed 
but further information was needed. Mrs W didnt reply to provide the information and the 
application was closed.
I think her investment was always subject  to the terms and these made  clear  that vetting 
would apply. So even  from the outset she couldnt  have  been certain  it would be approved  
even before the new 20% rule was introduced. As she didnt provide further information we 
cannot be certain whether the 20% rule mightve been relaxed in her case.
So I dont  accept that the SIPP shouldnt  have been opened or that it was JHs fault she 
couldnt invest as she wanted because it changed its policy. We cannot be certain whether 
or not she couldve invested at a level greater than 20% because  she didnt provide further 
information to enable this review. 
Charges
Mrs W complained  shed  never received any service from them despite being charged  which  
wasnt fair. With respect to charges  I note that Mrs W had to accept the schedule of charges 
to sign up to the SIPP. As she wasnt advised  it was up to her to satisfy  herself  regarding  
these. There is no suggestion  that the charges applied  were outside of the schedule  so I 
dont think JH has acted  unreasonably in applying  the contractual  charges to the account. 
Whether or not Mrs W made an investments charges applied  in accordance with the 
schedule so I dont  think the fact charges were  deducted is unfair.
JH say that the charges schedule was updated  in in 2017  and in April 2017 all members  
were mailed. As however  she hadnt updated her address she may not have received this, 
but that isnt JHs fault. I note that when JH was first aware she mightve moved it wrote 
three times to her new address asking for confirmation  but she never  replied.  
I note that Mrs W says she didnt receive  any statements I suspect because she moved  and 
JH were not advised  of her new address and also because her online account was inactive. 
Because of this Mrs W wouldve been  less aware of the charges being applied  to her 
account. However I note that the terms of the SIPP do say it is her responsibility to keep her 
address up to date.  So it isnt JHs fault that she wasnt aware of the new changes or the 
charges applied before these. There is no suggestion that the charges applied are outside of 
the contractual terms so I dont think JH has acted unreasonably.
verification
Ref: DRN22267274Mrs W says that electronic verification requirements delayed her 2017  transfer  request.  
Mrs W also says she was given confirmation of the plan value before she submitted 
confirmation of her address or her copy marriage certificate  re the change  of name. However 
I note the value was sent in an email listed on her application form and used to communicate 
with her in the past. So it seems the email was an accepted communication method  used  
between the parties.  The request for confirmation of change of address or name wouldnt 
have affected  this means of communication.
As I have already  said JH contacted Mrs W at her new address to request confirmation  of 
the change in address, but she never replied. Mrs W was asked by JH to electronically verify 
in a call with JH but she refused. Instead the adviser  took her through  the same security 
questions as wouldve  been asked online and used its discretion to verify as a special 
concession. I dont  think this shows that electronic or other  verification wasnt  needed as it is 
clear that verification was completed. Nor does it show  it couldve been done sooner. The 
reason another method was used was because of Mrs Ws refusal to do this electronically. 
So I dont  think it was JHs fault that it took so long to verify her address.
final transfer out
Since this complaint was started the transfer  out has completed and JH waived their transfer 
fee. Mrs W said the fact this happened  without the additional information showed it was 
never needed. She felt there had been  a delay  which cost her further charges, while  they 
asked for information  that wasnt needed.  In particular  while  she had married she hadnt  
changed her name for these purposes and didnt want to change her name for this scheme  
and had said so. There wasnt  any need  to see her marriage certificate.
Mrs W says this showed the transfer  couldve  been done sooner without additional 
information. I note that JH did say that evidence of her name  change  and new signature 
would be needed  and an instruction from the receiving scheme, without them  a transfer 
would be impossible. 
In fact because  the receiving scheme  was set up with the same name as with JH the name 
and signature verification  wasnt  needed.  It seems that JH assumed the receiving scheme 
would use her new name, but that wasnt the case.  So I dont think  the ID requirement 
caused delay  because JH still needed  a valid request  and had said this at the time. When  
that request  was provided with the correct reference it was actioned as there was no need 
for other name verification. So while  unhelpful  I dont think  this caused  a delay once a valid 
request was received.
I also note the reason  the first transfer  request was rejected was due to the incorrect 
reference. I have  seen the file notes asking for a resubmission  with correct reference.
JH said the other provider  submitted a valid online transfer out request in February 2019.  It 
said this was the first valid request which had a valid reference. So I dont  think  it was the 
additional information that caused a delay in the transfer but the absence of a valid transfer 
request.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN22267275Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2226727