K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that overpayments they made to their mortgage  with 
Santander UK Plc were put in a savings  pot and werent applied directly  to reduce their 
mortgage balance  and remaining term.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a capital repayment  mortgage with Santander. They often paid more  than 
the contractual monthly payment (CMP). They say that normally this was just taken off the 
capital owed and it had never  been  an issue. However the overpayments  they made from 
2017 were put into a savings pot.
Following a request  made by them in February 2018, the overpayments  instead  reduced the 
capital and lowered  the CMP. They feel that Santander should have done this before as it 
would have meant the repayments were lower  and they could have overpaid more.
They complained to Santander  that the overpayments  they had been making had been 
sitting in a savings  pot and hadnt been  applied  directly to reduce  their mortgage balance  
and remaining term.
Santander didnt  uphold their complaint. It said all overpayments  made  to the mortgage  
account had been applied  correctly  to the overpaid  funds pot linked to their mortgage. 
Unless Mr and Mrs S had specifically asked Santander to apply them  as a capital repayment 
to reduce the mortgage balance and monthly  payments. 
Following the complaint  Santander had applied the overpayments to reduce the mortgage 
balance. It said:
When you make overpayments  towards  your future  flexible mortgage account,  they 
automatically go into the overpaid funds pot linked to the mortgage. This then contributes to 
paying off your mortgage quicker, as your mortgage balance will reduce to zero at an earlier  
date than your fixed mortgage term of nine years.
If a customer calls to ask for the overpayment made  to their mortgage  to be applied as a 
capital repayment,  only the monthly mortgage  payments  would be reduced, along  with the 
mortgage balance.  We are unable to reduce the mortgage term on a flexible mortgage 
product. Your monthly payment amount would then be reduced to reflect the lower mortgage 
balance. The mortgage would then be paid off on the same term end date set up when the 
mortgage was taken out.
.
On 9 February 2018, the balance of £17,092.07 in your overpaid  funds pot, was applied as a 
capital repayment  to reduce your mortgage balance, as per your request. This then reduced 
your monthly payments due.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service. 
In response to the complaint Santander  said:
Ref: DRN25002002Please pay special note to the last column  Interest Bearing Balance.  This is to highlight  
that, even though funds  have been  in the savings pot, they have been used to offset against 
the capital balance outstanding, meaning  the customers have been incurring less interest. 
This means  there has been  absolutely no detriment  to the customers in having the funds in 
the savings pot, instead  of them being as a capital repayment. 
.
As the breakdown shows, the savings  pot balance has been  accruing since February 2008. 
As the customers are sent statements for their flexible mortgage every  six months,  they 
should have been able to see from mid 2008  that there was a balance accruing in the 
savings pot.
Moving forward, we have now applied notes to the mortgage account to ensure all payments 
over the normal contractual monthly instalment  are applied  as capital repayments. However, 
I must stress  that this will bear no difference to the speed in which  the mortgage can be 
repaid, as there was no previous detriment in applying the funds  to the Savings Pot.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld.  She said:
In 2008 you requested for your monthly payments to be increased to £700.  Any 
overpayments you made were transferred into the pot and this was confirmed to you in 
writing. Ive also been provided  with a number of statements that were sent to you. These  
statements show your outstanding balance on your account. I appreciate  you say you 
werent aware of the pot but from everything Ive seen, I think  Santander provided the 
relevant information  to bring to your attention that you had this facility.
The pot has two main purposes. The first is that any money in the pot is yours, and so you 
can withdraw it at any time.  For example if you were  unable  to make your mortgage 
repayments, you couldve potentially used the funds  in the pot to help you.
The other purpose is to protect your funds  in the event that the value of your property goes 
down. For example, lets say your property was worth £100,000 and your loan was £75,000, 
If you had been  making  overpayments without  the pot in place and the value of the property 
fell to £60,000 you could potentially lose the amount you overpaid. However having the 
overpayments in an a pot means they would be somewhat  protected.
When you brought your complaint to our service you said you felt that had the overpayments 
been used to reduce the capital this wouldve reduced your monthly payments, meaning you 
couldve increased the amount you were paying and potentially  pay your mortgage  off 
sooner.
It is correct that your monthly repayments  wouldve gradually been lowered had the 
overpayments been applied this way however, the term of your mortgage  wouldve remained 
the same. Having  the pot actually means  you could  pay your mortgage off sooner. This is 
because as soon  as the amount in the pot reflects the mortgage balance  this would then 
offset the mortgage bringing your balance  to zero.
Whilst I can again see why a product like this can be confusing,  from everything Ive looked 
at I cant see that having  the pot has caused  you any financial detriment. And actually I think 
having the pot in place was of a benefit  to you.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept this and asked  for someone else to look at the case. They  said:
Ref: DRN25002003If you can look at my previous payments and time predicted they immediately dropped  by 
50% once  they paid in pot money, also they did not notify me about  the change. Why would I 
have possibly changed it because it didnt benefit my needs at all. 
.
At no time did Abbey mention about a pot. I was told when getting the mortgage that it was 
(like an Australian mortgage) straight  repayment and the more  you pay over reduces the 
years, because the overpayment will come  off your capital that day not at end of year like 
other companies. Abbey did start to do this for me at first as could see on statements. But 
statements stopped  and this unwanted  pot appeared.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  which applied to Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  say:
15.4 The following  terms explain  how we will use any additional payment which  you make:
(a) If the additional payment takes  the form of a deposit, you may tell us that the deposit is to 
be used to reduce  the mortgage balance. We will then treat the deposit as money received 
for the credit of your mortgage account,  so that it will immediately reduce the capital owing 
on that account under condition 13.8(c).
(b) In any other case, we will first use the additional  payment  to reduce or pay off any part of 
the mortgage balance which is overdue at the date of the additional payment. We will then 
use the additional payment to create or add to a savings balance in your savings account, 
except that:
> if condition 16.11 applies,  we will deal with the balance of the additional payment as there 
stated; and
> if the savings account has been closed under condition 16.12,  we will repay the balance  of 
the additional payment to you without interest.
So if Mr and Mrs S wanted their overpayments to reduce their mortgage balance instead  of 
to increase their savings,  they had the option  to tell Santander that.
The savings pot was a facility which was part of the mortgage when Mr and Mrs S took it out. 
In 2008 they asked for their overpayments  to be increased to £700. 
On 21 February 2008 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs S:
Thank you for contacting  us about  your mortgage. We have now updated your direct debit 
to take a fixed payment of £700  each month,  starting from 28 February 2008. The 
overpayments will be paid into your overpaid  funds as you requested.
On 21 August 2015 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs S:
Ref: DRN25002004Weve now updated your direct debit to take a fixed payment of £600  each month.  This 
arrangement will be effective from 28 August 2015  for five years. The overpayments  will be 
paid into your overpaid funds.
The reason  why their repayments reduced so significantly was that they asked for the 
overpayments in the pot to be directly applied to the capital. Because  there was such  a large 
sum in the pot, when it was transferred the CMP reduced significantly.
Mr and Mrs S say: At no time did Abbey mention about a pot and this unwanted pot 
appeared, but I cant see that thats right. Yes there  was a change,  namely the introduction  
of a fixed payment  of £700 each month,  starting from 28 February  2008.  But the operation of 
the savings account was clearly set out in the mortgage conditions  and mentioned in 
Santanders 2008 and 2015 letters.
Im not persuaded that having the funds  in the savings account caused  Mr and Mrs S any 
financial loss, and I cant see that Santander has done anything wrong here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019. 
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2500200