K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the service  theyve received from Santander UK plc when 
Mrs M tried to transfer money out of their current account. Santander blocked the payment 
and wanted to carry out additional security checks. Mrs M wanted to make  a Subject Access 
Request (SAR) but she feels that Santander  didnt listen to her and put internal policies over 
legal obligations  to make  reasonable adjustments for disabilities. 
background
Mrs M has experienced problems when  shes  looked  to transfer money  from her and Mr Ms 
joint current account with Santander. She phoned Santander before making  some  online 
transfers to their other accounts  elsewhere,  but they triggered an alert on Santanders  
systems which meant they were held back until it could to make sure the transactions were  
genuine.
Mrs M finds  it difficult to speak on the phone sometimes, and was concerned about 
accepting fraudulent phone calls. And her disability  means that it would be difficult for her to 
visit her local branch and she has dyslexia and dyspraxia so she finds it difficult to read 
postal correspondence.  She felt the verification process was unnecessary and she should be 
able to do what she wanted with her own money.
Mr and Mrs M decided  to close down their account  and switch to another  bank. Mrs M used 
Santanders secure messaging  system  to make  a SAR for all of the information Santander 
held for her. But Santander said that it needed to complete  a call back to verify security for 
this. It asked for a preferable time to call; gave Mrs M a number to call herself; or said that 
she could go to her local branch  with identification.
But Mrs M didnt feel that any of these options was appropriate for her and said the service 
Santander had provided was discriminatory.
One of our investigators  addressed what  she considered to be the two main parts of Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint  the transferring  of money and the SAR.
She said she thought  the security checks for the online transfers were necessary, as 
Santander had an obligation to safeguard its customers money. She said the way this was 
done was a legitimate commercial decision for Santander to make,  and the security process 
was detailed in the account terms and conditions.
The investigator said that Santander had provided options to Mrs M as an alternative to it 
calling her to verify security for the SAR  going to a local branch, calling it directly  or 
sending a form through the post to sign and return. 
Ref: DRN21815642The investigator didnt  think Santander had acted  wrongly in requesting  confirmation  of the 
transfers and thought  additional security checks were necessary for the SAR.
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
She asked  where  the investigator  had confirmed that security checks were necessary. She 
said Santander had a duty of care to her and a statutory duty under the Equalities  Act to 
make reasonable adjustments for a disabled  person.  She said a business  can only chose 
how it operates within the law and the way Santander was operating  wasnt  within  the law.
In relation to the SAR, Mrs M said Santander  knew who she was and used email  and secure  
mail to correspond with her. She said its internal policy was overriding the law.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Santander  has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs M. It isnt 
my role to say whether Santander  has acted unlawfully  thats  a matter for the courts.  
However, Im required to take into account  relevant law and what  I consider to be good 
industry practice when  deciding what is fair and reasonable.  
I do appreciate all that Mrs M has told us about the difficulties she experiences when trying 
to use some of the communication  methods  Santander has suggested. I can understand that 
this will have been a cause of frustration and annoyance when she was trying to complete 
what she wanted to do  both for the transfers of her and Mr Ms money and the request for 
access to the personal data Santander  holds on her.
However, I can also appreciate that Santander will have  processes in place to protect both 
its customers money and their personal  data. This is something I would expect of any 
financial institution. And I dont think that these security procedures  are particularly unusual 
or out of line with the initial request that prompted  them.
The Equality  Act says that people with protected characteristics mustnt  be discriminated 
against. The protected characteristics include disability. Putting rules or arrangements in 
place that apply to everyone, but create  an unfair disadvantage to someone with a protected  
characteristic is known  as indirect discrimination. 
Santanders security procedures are in place for all customers of the bank and form part of 
the terms and conditions of its current account:
Our fraud detection  systems may highlight unusual spending patterns. We may call you, 
write to you or send  you an SMS  if there are unusual payments in or out of your account or if 
we believe your account is at risk of a security  threat. These calls may include computer-
generated speech. If you do not want us to contact you in this way please contact us 
We can limit the amount of money you can send from your account  using  Online or Mobile 
Banking or ask you to contact us for payments that require additional authorisation.  
Ref: DRN21815643Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has said but I dont think that these terms would be 
considered to be discriminatory against  Mrs M when she was offered alternative ways of 
meeting the security requirements.  Although I appreciate that not all customers  will have the 
same needs  and reasonable adjustments may have to be made, I dont  think  this should  
mean that the security measures need  to be overlooked or disregarded for any customers.
For online transfers where the activity or amount is unusual for a customers normal  running 
of the account,  or high amounts are transferred in short succession, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for a bank to want to make sure these  transfers  are genuinely what  the 
customer is intending regardless  of their destination. So while I appreciate  the reasons why 
Mrs M found  the verification of them obstructive or unnecessary, they were done  with the 
intention of protecting her and Mr Ms money.  I fully understand that it is Mr and Mrs Ms 
money to do with as they wish, and Mrs M has said that she takes steps to make the most of 
their money and protect  it from any form of fraud. But I dont think this should  take away  
Santanders procedures  to check that a transaction is genuine.
In relation to the personal data that would form the SAR, I also think that its reasonable to 
verify that it is genuinely the customer that is requesting this information and will receive  it. 
An individual can only ask for their own personal  data.  And I think  this security verification  is 
to make sure theres no breach or disclosure of that individuals personal data to any other 
party. Santander has said that, because of the level of data included  in the SAR, it looks to 
complete additional security  in line with its policy.
So whilst I do understand Mrs Ms strength of feeling  and I realise that she will be 
disappointed with the decision Ive reached, I dont  think that Santander has acted unfairly  in 
the handling of the online transfers or in the steps  its asked for to complete Mrs Ms SAR.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2181564