K821x#15complaint
Mr J had a car insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. Mr J complains that his two car 
insurance claims were handled  badly  and that repairs took far too long to carry out. He is 
also unhappy that his lost earnings werent  covered.
background
Mr J was involved in two car accidents in 2017. After  the first incident in May,  he reported it 
to AXA,  and the car was taken for assessment at an approved repairer.  Then he said AXA 
refused to pay for the repairs  and took no further  action on his claim without informing him. 
In June, the third party insurer  accepted liability.
Then Mr J was involved in a second incident in October. He reported it to AXA but they didnt 
arrange repairs to his car. Mr J says that, at his insistence, AXA eventually agreed  to begin 
repairs for the second incident. But by mistake, they booked  in his car for repairs arising 
from the first incident and did nothing to progress the repairs needed for the second incident.
Mr J says AXA again delayed carrying  out repairs. Then after repairs had been authorised, 
AXA wrote off his car and sent it to a salvage  dealer. And Mr J says it was nearly  scrapped.
He tells us he also had to make  his own arrangements to obtain a replacement  hire car. 
Then AXA cancelled  the hire car and refused to authorise replacement  costs.
Mr J says he had to take many days off work,  spending hours  at a time on the phone to 
AXA, and the repairers and car hire company, trying  to sort things out. Eventually,  his car 
was repaired and returned in April 2018.
Mr J says he complained to AXA three times,  beginning in April 2018  but didnt receive a 
substantive response  until June. This told him that the repairs to his car were proceeding 
despite the fact theyd  already been  completed in April.  He also says AXA failed to discuss 
or investigate complaint  before issuing  their final response letter.
Mr J claimed for loss of earnings, which he said amounted to £3,220, plus £581.26 for car 
hire incurred because  of AXAs failure  to supply a courtesy vehicle.  When  Mr J pressed AXA 
he says they agreed to consider his claim if he could provide evidence  of loss. But he says 
that when he did so, AXA still refused to pay. Mr J also mentioned  in his complaint form that 
he would  also like consideration given to the resulting increase in his renewal premium, 
which he thinks may have  been down to AXA delaying things to get a higher  premium.
In July 2018, AXA wrote a final response letter. They partially upheld Mr Js complaint. They  
issued a payment  of £150 as compensation and offered to pay for his hire car. Then in 
October, AXA reviewed  the case but because  there  was no evidence  to back  up the loss of 
earnings Mr J claimed, they said they couldnt agree this. But they raised  their offer of 
compensation to £250, besides reimbursing  the costs of the hire car. Mr J rejected the £250, 
which he said was insulting and inadequate, given the time hed spent on the claim. He said 
the evidence of his loss of earnings  was the phone calls hed made.
In November 2018, AXA wrote a second final response letter.  They repeated  they couldnt 
consider Mr Js claim for lost earnings  without evidence of loss. But reiterated they were 
happy to reimburse  the car hire costs and had issued  a cheque for this. They raised a further  
cheque for £100  to bring the total compensation to £250. And apologised again.
Ref: DRN25325662Mr J complained to us in April 2019.
In November 2019, our investigator sent out his view. He noted that AXA had agreed to pay 
for car hire costs. He said hed looked at the time taken to have both Mr Js claims resolved 
and whether there were sufficient grounds to pay the loss of earnings.  Although  thered been  
two claims, he said they could have been  resolved quicker and better. And, he noted Mr J 
had not been kept informed of important aspects  of his claim and had had to chase AXA to 
carry out repairs. He said he thought  £300  was fairer compensation.
So far as loss of earnings were concerned, he acknowledged Mr J had taken time away from 
work but said disruption was expected when someone has to make  a claim. He noted AXA 
had said that if Mr J could  provide evidence for the loss these would be considered.  But as 
Mr J couldnt prove  that he would  definitely have been paid during that period, he said he 
couldnt recommend  a payment for loss based  only on Mr Js estimate of potential  earnings 
without any documentary evidence to support this. He explained it had to evidenced, for 
example, by potential  contracts or correspondence showing that as a direct result of AXAs  
actions, work had been cancelled. And Mr J had lost out. So, the investigator thought a fair 
outcome would be for AXA to pay Mr J £300 for the inconvenience and cover his car hire 
costs. 
Mr J was unhappy with this. He said he ran a small business with minimal accounts  and few 
contracts. He said AXA had records  of the businesss calls and he could also provide 
itemised bills. He said AXA had declined his evidence but hadnt specified  what  evidence  
they would  accept.
In subsequent correspondence, our investigator  explained again that Mr J needed to prove 
loss before he could  tell a business there were losses to cover.  And it wasnt for us to tell a 
business how they should calculate loss of earnings and it hadnt been proved  that losses  
were incurred. He repeated that the calls Mr J had made didnt constitute evidence  of loss of 
earnings. So, he couldnt say that AXA had acted incorrectly.
Mr J didnt agree. Beside  his financial losses, he felt hed been  treated badly by AXA 
throughout the whole  course  of his claim. AXA then agreed to the increased compensation 
of £300. They also confirmed theyd already paid for the cost of the car hire.
In May 2020, our investigator reviewed  a timeline  of actions  taken  by AXA to progress Mr Js 
claims from first notification until the claims and works  had been  completed. This review  
disclosed that Mr Js policy was one for social domestic, pleasure and commuting uses.  Our 
investigator informed  Mr J that the travel required for his work wasnt  covered under the type 
of cover he had. And its possible that a different policy shouldve been in place.  So, he 
explained that this meant  he thought there  were even fewer grounds to suggest AXA should  
cover his lost earnings because the policy had never been intended to cover using the 
vehicle for work purposes in the first place. Either way, this didnt  change  his earlier findings.
Mr J wrote to repeat  his earlier points  and argued  that the type of cover made no difference. 
He said neither claim arose when he was working or commuting. Because he didnt agree 
with our investigators view, the case has come to me for decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN25325663Car hire
Although Mr J received  a courtesy car when his car was in AXAs  approved repairer, the 
terms of his policy didnt  provide  a replacement hire car. So, Mr J had to make his own 
arrangements. When he ended up with a hire car arranged by credit hire this was withdrawn 
and he incurred costs.  AXA have now paid these, which I think  is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
But Mr J was out of pocket for well over a year. Its not clear from the file when he paid 
£581.26 to the car hire company and why he didnt get a courtesy car. But AXA offered to 
cover this in July 2018 but didnt actually  pay until November 2019. So, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable if AXA also paid Mr J eight percent interest on this figure from the date Mr J 
paid the car hire company  until the date AXA settled that part of his claim.
Delays
Having looked  at the chronology of Mr Js two claims, I can see that there were a number  of 
occasions of delay and some confusion.  There was an initial  delay in beginning repairs  after 
the assessment  following  Mr Js first accident  in May. Then there was another  delay in 
progressing repairs following Mr Js second accident in October.  And these were only 
completed the following April after some confusion as to which repairs were  being carried  
out. Then,  it seems, Mr J only narrowly managed to prevent his car being  scrapped  at AXAs 
direction without his knowledge and against  his will. There was also some delay in AXA 
addressing Mr Js concerns when  he raised  these as complaints. And he says they came to 
their final decision without  consulting  him. Having said this, AXA apologised for the delays  
and inconvenience  Mr J had experienced. They eventually  paid him £250 in compensation.
But Ive looked  at the file and considered this catalogue of delays, which  occurred in several 
different ways as Ive described above,  over an unreasonably long period of time. In view of 
this, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay Mr J £400 in total  so less 
whatever has been paid already - as compensation for these delays and confusion.
Loss of Earnings
I understand Mr J felt he had to take several days away from work to sort out his claims. And 
he says that because he wasnt available to work, he lost out on earnings. I also accept AXA 
indicated theyd consider this claim  if Mr J could  provide evidence  of such loss. 
But, despite evidence  of lengthy telephone calls, whether  AXAs call recordings or Mr Js 
bills, I dont think this constitutes sufficient proof of loss. Its only potential loss because Mr J 
cant prove that he had actual losses  during that period that were  caused as the result of 
AXAs actions or omissions.  So, I dont think AXA need do anything here.
I also see the issue of the type of Mr Js policy has been raised. For the sake  of 
completeness, Ive looked at this 2017 policy  which covers the period when both accidents 
occurred and claims were made.  The terms state that his policy was for social, domestic  
and pleasure purposes including commuting , and explicitly excludes commercial  travelling.
Mr J says that both accidents occurred outside business hours, so the issue of the type of 
policy is irrelevant. I agree, but the fact remains that I dont  think Mr J has been able to 
Ref: DRN25325664produce sufficient evidence of loss of earnings as the result of actions or omissions  of AXA 
so this question  doesnt alter the conclusion Ive reached  above.
Rise in premium
Mr J was also unhappy that his policy was renewed  at an increased  amount after his claim 
was settled. But Im not able to consider this as Mr J didnt raise it with AXA before he 
complained to us. In general, however, if a claim which is registered as a fault prior to 
renewal, changes to a non-fault  claim after renewal,  wed expect an insurer to retrospectively 
amend the premium to reflect this. And to provide a refund, if appropriate. This is an issue  
for Mr J to take up with AXA, and if he remains unhappy with their response, he can bring a 
new complaint to us.
the response to my provisional  decision
In their response, AXA accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr J responded with a number of issues. He repeated points about AXAs actions in relation 
to the car hire and to the handling  of his complaint. And about AXAs delays  which I have 
already addressed by way of compensation. Mr J also re-iterated that taking time to make 
his claim had caused him loss, and repeated that AXA had refused to accept his evidence.
Specifically, in respect of the repayment  of car hire and interest over the period Mr J was out 
of pocket, Mr J said these  costs remain unsettled.  This was because  he said he hadnt  
cashed the cheque that AXA had sent him in November 2019 in the belief that doing so 
might prejudice his position.
Mr J also said that to provide evidence of loss of earnings he could try to track down which 
jobs were cancelled but thought AXA would reject even this. And approaching these 
customers would cause  more ill feeling given he had let them  down in the first place. 
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
In respect of repayment  of hire costs  and interest  over the relevant period,  Mr J says these  
costs are still unresolved  as he didnt cash the cheque he was sent by AXA because  he 
thought this might prejudice his position. This is an incorrect  (if perhaps understandable) 
assumption on Mr Js part. So, Im going  to direct  AXA to issue this cheque, inclusive of 
interest, again.
I did consider whether  it would be appropriate to extend the period of interest  up to the 
present time. But I think it would be unfair  to penalise AXA by asking them to pay interest for 
the period after they sent the cheque on a sum theyd actively been  trying to hand  over.  Mr J 
could always have  checked the situation  with AXA and made his own position clear.
So, I direct  that AXA pay Mr J eight  per cent interest on the £581.26 he paid to the car hire 
company, from the date he paid the company until the date in November 2018  when  AXA 
originally sent out this cheque.
Ref: DRN25325665In respect of evidence of lost income , as Mr J was informed  of the importance of such  
evidence by our investigator  in November 2019 and again in my provisional decision  in July 
2020 but didnt provide this, I think hes already had ample time to take action and hasnt 
done so. So, I wont be making any further direction here.
my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that AXA Insurance  UK Plc should:
pay Mr J eight percent interest for the period  between the date he paid the car hire 
company until the date in November 2018 when  AXA originally sent out this cheque;
pay Mr J £400 in total  so less whatever has been paid already - as compensation 
for delays and confusion.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2532566