K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on his behalf  and that of the late Mrs H that Skipton Building  Society  
(Skipton) mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly
In 1998 Mr H and the late Mrs H applied for a mortgage during a branch visit. Around the 
same time they also took out PPI  in Mr Hs name only  which  was designed to protect  
their mortgage payments  in the event  Mr H couldnt  work as a result  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
The policy cost just over £20 a month.
In 2000 and again in 2003 Mr H and the late Mrs H borrowed more money by way of further 
advances. On both occasions Mr Hs PPI policy benefit was increased  to account for the 
increased mortgage payment.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought Skipton gave Mr H a 
choice about PPI and that he agreed to take it out  and he did so on all three occasions. 
They also said there was nothing to indicate  the policy was mis-sold.
Mr H disagrees.  In particular he says he had no option to take it out. But given  his 
circumstances including  savings he held at the time,  he neither  needed nor wanted PPI.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
did Skipton  provide advice and recommend PPI to Mr H?
I can see Mr H says Skipton recommended the cover to him. Skipton says this was a non-
advised sale  it didnt recommend the cover  to him.
Based on the evidence  provided, Im not persuaded that Skipton provided  advice  and 
recommended PPI to Mr H. I say this because the paperwork Skiptons provided from the 
time doesnt support an advised  sale. For example Skipton has provided  a Mortgage Code 
form, which says the mortgage interview  was provided on an information  only basis and that 
it gave a description of any insurance  services it could arrange  not that it would provide 
advice on them.
So I think Skipton  only provided information about  PPI.
Ref: DRN27689552This means  Skipton didnt  need to ensure PPI was suitable or right for Mr H. But it did have 
to give him enough  clear  and timely  information  about the policy  so he could make that 
decision for himself. Ive kept this in mind  in deciding this complaint.
did Skipton  make it clear to Mr H that he had a choice  about PPI?
Because this is one of Mr Hs key complaint points  he says he had no option to take the 
policy out  Ive thought  about this carefully.
Part of the paperwork I referred to above includes a copy  of Mr H and the late Mrs Hs 
mortgage application. Looking at this I can see there  was a section titled  Mortgage Payment 
Protection. After a brief description of the cover there were a series  of tick boxes next to 
three questions:
Do you require Mortgage Payment Protection insurance?  Yes / No
Do you require additional information?  Yes / No
If you do not require  Mortgage Payment Protection do you have sufficient protection 
including redundancy protection  Yes / No
Mr H  or Skiptons representative on his behalf  ticked the Yes box for additional 
information and No to do you have sufficient  protection Neither box was ticked in 
answer to the first question.
I can see Mr H has raised  concerns about something written  in this PPI section of the 
application, which he says must  have happened  after his meeting.  The words Possibly 
(seemed v. interested  are written to the right of the first question  Do you require PPI.
I dont know whether the representative wrote this at the time or later on. But in any event it 
doesnt in my view support Mr H being  told or given  the impression that he had to have PPI. I 
think it shows quite the opposite and supports my view that not only was Mr H given a choice 
about PPI, he didnt have to immediately  exercise that choice  he was able to receive more 
information and to go away and think about it before  doing  so.
And it appears this is what Mr H did because he completed a separate application form and 
did so a couple of weeks after the mortgage itself completed. 
So overall and having carefully weighed up what both parties have provided, I think Skipton 
made it clear  Mr H had a choice about PPI and that he chose  to take it out without undue  
pressure.
the information
Based on the evidence  provided I accept its possible that Skipton did not do all that it should  
have in providing Mr H with enough  clear  and timely information about the cover he was 
deciding whether to take out. For example and as I will expand  on below, its not clear how 
and when the cost information was disclosed or whether the significant limitations and 
exclusions of cover were drawn to Mr Hs attention. But in light of his circumstances  at the 
time, I dont think its likely that Mr H wouldve acted differently and declined the cover had 
Skipton done  anything  more. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the cover.
Ref: DRN27689553while hes more recently told us that he had two existing medical conditions   one of 
which required him to take some  time off between jobs to aid his recovery   Im 
mindful that in first submitting his complaint he said he didnt have  any health 
problems.
 
But in any event Im not persuaded that what Mr H says about when he needed time 
off work to recover is supported by the evidence; specifically evidence  from Skipton 
received at the time from Mr Hs previous and then employer about his employment  
end and start dates.
So at the time of taking out PPI, I dont think Mr H wouldve thought it likely that the 
main reason  hed be off work would be because  of his existing conditions. Because  
of this and on the basis  Mr H was employed   he didnt have unusual  employment 
circumstances - I dont think Mr H wouldve  been put off by the significant  exclusions  
and limitations of cover had Skipton  been  clearer about them.
its not clear when the cost was disclosed to Mr H. But I dont think hed have agreed 
to take it out without  having some idea of what it was going  to cost. And it was set out 
in a letter after the policy went live, so if this didnt match  his expectations  I might  
have expected him to have queried it at the time. At around  £20 a month it appears 
to have been affordable. 
Mr H had some sick pay and its documented in the mortgage  application  that he had 
around £5000 pounds in savings. Hes more recently told us he had more in savings  
as well as a personal accident insurance policy. 
The personal accident plan shouldnt be compared to PPI because this type of policy  
pays out a lump sum benefit in the event of a specified and significant  event   for 
example loss of limb  rather  than a regular monthly  amount. But in any event Mr H 
knew his existing means when he chose to have the cover.  And Mr H understood the 
benefit of the policy  because he wrote  the level of cover he wanted on the PPI 
application. Ive also said that I think he had some  idea of the cost.  So I think Mr H 
had enough to weigh up the cost and benefit  proposition and decide whether  it 
worked for him. And having done  so it appears he identified that he had a need  for 
cover - it wasnt  Skiptons  responsibility to do this as I said earlier.  
And I agree the policy would have been useful for him  the policy would have paid 
out alongside Mr Hs sick pay and for longer  if necessary. It wouldve also allowed  Mr 
H to keep hold of his savings or allowed him to use them to support other ongoing 
household expenditure  if things went wrong. So given the policy was ultimately 
protecting Mr H and the late Mrs Hs home, I dont think PPI was wrong  or 
inappropriate for him.
the policy was a regular monthly  premium policy, so it couldve been cancelled  at any 
time and without penalty if Mr Hs circumstances changed or he simply no longer 
wanted cover.
the further advances  in 2000  and 2003
Mr H and the late Mrs H made applications for additional borrowing in 2000  and again  in 
2003. Mr H says the PPI just continued  at these  points   he wasnt  asked again if he wanted 
it.
Ref: DRN27689554But Skipton  has provided  copies  of both additional  borrowing  applications. I can see here 
that on both occasions Mr H was asked the question whether  he wanted to increase his 
policy to account  for the additional borrowing and resulting increased mortgage cost.  I can 
also see that on both occasions the required box is ticked. So on the basis  that Mr H signed 
the overall applications I think he wanted  to continue with and increase the cover  with both 
further advances.
Given that Mr Hs circumstances hadnt fundamentally changed since the PPI policy began, 
Im satisfied the policy was still appropriate and useful to him at the points  the further 
borrowings were taken  for the reasons  Ive already set out above.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied that at each key interaction with Skipton Mr H was given the 
choice to take out or continue with PPI and he agreed to do so. And while  Skipton might  not 
have done all that it should  fairly and reasonably have done when it sold PPI, Im not 
persuaded Mr Hs decision to take out the policy  wouldve been any different had Skipton 
done anything  more. As a result I find Mr H has not lost out as a result of having PPI with his 
mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H  on behalf 
of himself and the late Mrs H - to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2768955