K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that HSBC UK Bank  plc closed her account without telling  her. When it 
returned the balance to her, it wouldnt reimburse her for loss of interest.
background
Ms K lives overseas but had an account  with HSBC. The bank withdrew the type of account  
in question in 2015, and wrote to Ms K to say that her account would be closed. But Ms K 
didnt receive HSBCs  letter. The account was closed and the balance transferred  to an 
HSBC holding account that didnt  pay interest.
Ms K says she discovered what had happened when she tried to withdraw the money in 
2018. She received the 2015 closing account balance.  But Ms K considered HSBC should 
also pay interest for the time that the money was kept in its holding  account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said Ms Ks account 
hadnt been used since 2009, and that the linked account had been closed in 2011 (which  
was a breach  of the account conditions).  HSBC held two addresses for Ms K but items had 
been returned as not delivered. So HSBC had stopped writing  to Ms K at the addresses it 
held for her. The adjudicator didnt  think this was unreasonable.
The adjudicator didnt consider HSBC had to pay interest on the closing account balance.
Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms Ks account hadnt been used  since 2009.  I understand that the linked account was 
closed in 2011. Ms K says HSBC failed  to tell her that it was moving the account balance to 
a holding account, so shes missed out on three years  interest.  
HSBC hasnt been able to provide much  information  about  the account,  which  isnt surprising 
as its been closed for some time. But its provided evidence to show that it had a relatives 
address recorded  against the account,  and that it was writing to Ms K care of that address as 
far back as 2009. 
It seems  HSBC  also had a record of Ms Ks overseas  address in 2009.
HSBC has told us some of its correspondence was returned as gone away  although it 
hasnt been able to tell us when that was. But this meant HSBC stopped writing to Ms K, 
because it needed  to protect her personal details.
From what  Ive seen and been  told, I dont think the banks actions were  unreasonable. On 
balance, I think its unlikely HSBC  wouldve  stopped  writing to Ms K unless  it had reason to 
believe she wasnt receiving its correspondence. 
Ref: DRN23073862Im also mindful that Ms K didnt  contact HSBC about the account until three  years  after the 
balance had moved to the holding account. I understand she has been suffering with ill 
health, and appreciate this may have  been  why she didnt contact the bank sooner. Im 
obviously sympathetic  the position Ms K was in. 
But Im also mindful that the account  hadnt  been used at all since 2009. So when  I take 
account of the circumstances  overall, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say that the 
banks actions were  wrong on this occasion. 
So I wont  be upholding Ms Ks complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2307386