K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that she wasnt made  aware  that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online  education  course 
(course) for her two children with a supplier that I will call E.
background
In December 2017 Mrs O purchased  a course from E for her two children.
In early 2018 Mrs O took the decision to cancel the course with E. On doing so, or shortly 
after doing  so, she says she discovered (for the first time) that she had entered  into a loan 
with 3J to finance the course.
The loan with 3J was for £2,822 payable by 47 monthly instalments of £58.79  followed  by 
one monthly payment (in month 48) of £58.87.  The cost of the course was £2,872 and Mrs O 
paid E, in December  2017, a £50 deposit.
Mrs Os complaint that she was unaware  that she had entered  into a loan with 3J was 
considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that Mrs O was aware, or ought to 
have been aware,  that she had entered into a loan with 3J and the loan hadnt  been 
mis-sold.
Mrs O didnt agree with the investigators conclusion so her complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
In considering what is fair and reasonable Ive had regard to section 56 of The Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and the liability of 3J for the actions of E in carrying  out antecedent 
negotiations prior to Mrs O entering  into the loan.  
I cant say for certain what was, or wasnt, discussed  between Mrs O and E in 
December 2017.  But having considered what all the parties have said and submitted Im not 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Mrs O was unaware  that she had entered  
into a loan in December 2017  to fund the course.
Ive come to this conclusion given that 3J have  been able to provide our service with several 
documents which Mrs O accepts she signed  and many of which  make  reference to the 
course being funded by way of a loan. 
Ref: DRN24217032I accept that Mrs O says she signed  a number of documents without reading  them  and that 
she signed many of them electronically,  rather than by hand. However, notwithstanding I 
might have expected  Mrs O to have  read each and every  document she signed,  or that she 
might have questioned anything she didnt  understand, I note that she electronically  signed a 
loan agreement in two places under two very short statements, one stating:
This is a Loan  Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms
And one stating:
I hereby  accept the Terms and Conditions of this Fixed Sum Loam Agreement  as detailed 
above
I can also see that Mrs O hand signed  a one page document  and hand  initialled nine 
separate statements on it to confirm,  amongst  other things, that she had:
chosen to pay [for the course]  from [E] by way of finance
[The course would] be paid for by 48 monthly instalments
electronically signed  [a] finance agreement
So even if I was to accept that Mrs O didnt read every document  she signed  (whether  
electronically or by hand),  I think she would have  understood,  or ought to have reasonably 
understood, that she was taking out a loan.
I can also see that Mrs O was sent a welcome letter from 3J on 21 December 2017, which 
explained the loan agreement she had entered into and which was sent in good time for the 
same to be cancelled. And that she received an email  dated  20 December 2017 which made 
reference to the current  loan arrangement cost and the cost of a new arrangement if Mrs Os 
third and youngest  child was to join the course. But she raised no immediate concerns or 
questions over the content  of either  communication.
Ive also seen nothing  that would lead me to conclude that the loan was mis-sold.  Ive come 
to this conclusion  given, amongst other  things,  that some sort of discussion around  
affordability appears to have taken place, Mrs O signed a declaration  to say the loan was 
affordable and that the loan was granted on interest free terms.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs O, Im simply not persuaded, in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  that she was unaware that she had entered into a loan 
with 3J or that this loan was mis-sold to her.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that on the balance  of probabilities Im also 
satisfied that on purchasing  the course that she did, E (as I would expect it to do given its 
obligations under  The Cancellation  of Contracts  in a Consumers Home or Place of Work  
etc. Regulations  s 2008) gave Mrs O the option  of cancelling the course within  14 days  of 
12 December 2017.
Ref: DRN24217033Ive come to this view given that Mrs O electronically signed the course order  form directly  
under the statement:
I understand that I have 14 days to cancel  this agreement with [E] starting from the date I 
sign this form [12 December 2018].
And under the statement:
I further understand that I have 14 days to cancel this agreement with [E] starting  from the 
date I sign this form and that, if paying  by using Finance, I will have 14 days in which to 
cancel, usually starting on the day after the day on which the finance agreement is made 
and/or as confirmed  to me elsewhere, on behalf of the finance company. I also now confirm  
receipt of the Right to Cancel/model  cancellation form.
And that she hand initialled next to the statement:
Youre aware that [E] gives you 14 days to cancel starting from the date of sale. A copy of 
the right to cancel information from [E] is on the back  of this form. If your using  Finance, the 
company providing  Finance will provide  you with a withdrawal period  of 14 days, usually 
starting with the day after the day on which the Finance agreement is made or as confirmed 
to you elsewhere by the finance company.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2421703