K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about ReAssure Limited  (ReAssure). Hes concerned about the literature 
ReAssure provided  in 1987 when  he took out a Section 32 Buy Out Policy (S32  Policy).  Mr C 
feels ReAssures illustrations were  misleading. Hes unhappy the amount he received when 
he took retirement benefits is significantly  less than what was outlined  in ReAssures 
illustrations. 
background
In 1987 Mr C received  advice from an independent  financial  adviser (IFA) Ill refer to as 
Adviser G. Adviser  G recommended that Mr C transfer the value of pension  benefits hed 
accrued with his former employer to a S32 Policy  with ReAssure (then Guardian Royal  
Exchange). Mr C followed this advice and a S32 Policy was set up for him accordingly.  
With the assistance of a new IFA Mr C applied to take retirement benefits from his S32 
Policy in 2014. Mr C chose to take £25,687.42 in Tax Free Cash  (TFC) and used the Open 
Market Option to purchase an annuity  with a provider Ill refer to as Provider  J.
In 2017 Mr C raised concerns about  literature  ReAssure had provided in 1987 regarding 
retirement benefits under his S32 Policy. Our investigator referred these  concerns  to 
ReAssure. ReAssure responded and said it didnt think  it was at fault.
Following this one of our investigators considered the matter.  He didnt think  ReAssure  had 
done anything  wrong. In summary he said:
when Mr C took out his policy investment returns were  generally higher and growth 
figures used in policy literature at the time wouldve  reflected this
while Mr Cs projected pension as outlined in ReAssures illustrations was a lot higher 
than what he actually  received, the figures  shown were  estimates  and never 
guaranteed
he thought  it was clear in ReAssures literature that the figures it quoted were 
dependent on bonuses that relied on future profits  which  couldnt be predicted 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator. In summary he said:
he didnt think it was acceptable that ReAssure  had provided him with such wildly 
different estimates  of what his pension could be worth compared to what  he actually 
received
he didnt think hed received what he shouldve when he took retirement benefits
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. That is to 
say, whether ReAssure  misled Mr C with the illustrations it provided  him with in 1987  and 
Ref: DRN27821702whether, based  on these  illustrations, theres  anything to suggest  the retirement benefits he 
received in 2014 werent correct. 
I should firstly say that I have real sympathy for Mr C. I can appreciate how disappointed  he 
must be that the retirement benefits he received from his policy arent  the same as those 
outlined in illustrations  he received in 1987. Indeed as Mr C says the figures  quoted in 
ReAssures illustrations differ significantly from what he actually got when he took benefits. 
And this is what really concerns him.
Ive carefully considered  the matter and having done so Im mindful of several things. 
The 1987  advice Mr C was provided with to take out a S32 policy came from Adviser  G and 
not ReAssure.  ReAssure was only the Provider of the Policy Adviser G recommended.  So 
ReAssures responsibility  was limited to ensuring  Mr Cs policy was managed correctly and 
that relevant information was provided  to Mr C and his adviser about its S32 Policy. 
Adviser G was ultimately  responsible for making sure Mr C sufficiently understood the nature 
of the S32 Policy  it recommended and this included the guarantees and risks associated 
with it. 
I dont propose to go into the detail of how Mr Cs Policy works. I should however say that Mr 
Cs Policy was invested in ReAssures With Profits  fund. The growth achieved by an 
investment in a With Profits fund depends on the level of bonuses awarded  by the business, 
which in turn depends on the underlying performance of the assets in the fund. But as bonus 
rates are not (and were  not) guaranteed there  was, and remains, the risk with this type of 
Policy that income  levels and transfer values could  fall or be below what  was originally  
expected. Indeed the notes that accompanied ReAssures illustrations said:
The amount payable  at pension age is made up of the basic  guaranteed  benefit and bonus 
additions. Bonuses  will depend on future profits and no company can predict these with any 
certainty () In practice the bonuses actually added to the policy  could be higher or lower 
than those illustrated  and will depend  on the profits earned ().
Im satisfied ReAssures illustrations made it sufficiently clear that the benefits Mr C would 
ultimately receive upon retirement  while partly being  made  up of a guaranteed  benefit, also 
comprised of bonus additions which could never be known for certain.  Im not persuaded 
that ReAssures  literature regarding Mr Cs S32 policy was misleading. Im also mindful  that 
at the time Mr C took out his S32 policy his IFA at the time wrote to him and said:
When comparing the figures quoted it is important to take into account that these are purely 
and illustration and not a guarantee  of the benefits that will payable in the future.
The growth rates used  in ReAssures illustrations were standard rates  which the regulator  
required all firms  to use to give an indication of what someone  might get back  not what 
they would  get back.  ReAssures illustrations comfirmed:
The bonuses illustrated  are consistent  with the guidelines laid down (...) regarding the 
maximum rate of investment return which member offices may use in their illustrations.
I do sympathise with Mr C as he clearly expected his Policy to provide a better income  than 
it did. However bonus rates take into account  various factors;  these include not just current  
or recent investment performance but also how ReAssure expected  its With Profits  fund to 
Ref: DRN27821703perform in the future,  as well as the funds liabilities  in respect of the guaranteed benefits 
applicable to all plans.  
Its also important to note that the amount of bonus declared for its fund is a matter  for 
ReAssures commercial discretion. And providers, like ReAssure, do have significant  
discretion about  how they operate this type of fund.
But ReAssure is accountable to the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
for the way in which it operates  its With Profits fund (in accordance with its Principles and 
Practices of Financial Management document). And the regulator monitors  the management 
of it. 
The FCAs Principle 6 requires that firms () must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. The Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS 20) also 
provides specific rules and guidance  for firms on the operation  of these funds.  We have not 
been told that the regulator has any concerns with the way ReAssure has managed  its With 
Profits fund. So Im unable to conclude ReAssure  has done anything  wrong in the way Mr C 
has suggested. 
Im also conscious that Mr C chose to take retirement benefits from his ReAssure Policy  
early. This will undoubtedly have impacted the level of benefits he received compared to 
what he might have  received had he waited to take benefits at age 65. As Mr Cs Policy 
literature explained:
() If you retire at a different date to your NRD () (shown () in your policy document), 
the amount of pension you receive will be reduced. () the amount of final bonus (along 
with other  bonuses, basic with-profits pension and, where applicable, basic non-profit 
pensions) will be reduced ().
Because Mr C took benefits at age 60 he lost the guaranteed pension that was attached to 
his Policy. 
As Mr Cs correspondence with this service  seems to suggest he understands, risk is 
intrinsic to any investment  (including  Mr Cs S32 Policy); and whilst its of course  
disappointing that Mr Cs fund didnt perform as well as hed hoped,  that is simply a reflection 
of the investment decisions (based  on reasonable assumptions relating to growth rates 
being achieved  at the time) made and investment performance. Poor performance  itself isnt 
evidence of mis-management or impropriety.
Overall, whilst I can understand Mr Cs disappointment with the return  his pension achieved,  
I have not seen sufficient evidence to show this is a result of a mistake  by ReAssure. As Ive 
explained above, there are a number of factors  that have impacted this. 
I dont underestimate  Mr Cs strength of feeling regarding or sincerity in bringing  the 
concerns hes raised to this service. Seeking  the reassurance he has is completely 
understandable in the circumstances. 
I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I dont  think  there 
are any grounds here for me to reasonably conclude that ReAssure has done anything 
wrong regarding  the issues  Mr C has raised.
 
Ref: DRN27821704my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2782170