K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  was sold to Mr W by 
Nationwide when he took out a secured  loan over the internet in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy had been  mis-sold. Mr W didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr W says that he didnt  know  at the time that PPI had been sold to him with his loan.  He 
says that if hed been told about the PPI he would have declined  to take it because he didnt 
need the cover it gave  him. But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place a long time 
ago and memories  tend to fade over these time periods. So I need  to look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely  to have happened then.
Nationwide has provided sample copies of screenshots from its internet application.  These 
show that PPI was presented as optional and that a customer was required to choose 
whether or not they wanted the cover by selecting  a Yes or a No button next to the 
question Do you wish to include payment  protection cover?. But the screenshots  arent 
dated and appear to relate to a single premium PPI policy. So I dont think that I can rely on 
this evidence alone as showing that Mr W was presented  with a choice about taking the PPI 
and agreed to taking  it.
But Nationwide has also provided a copy of the credit  agreement which  Mr W signed for his 
loan. On this agreement I can see that the cost of the PPI of £24.57  is shown next to the 
words Add: Monthly Premium for Optional  Credit  Insurance. And I think  Mr W would  have 
been likely  to have  queried why insurance  described as optional  had been  added if he hadnt 
already agreed  to take it in his internet application.
So taking account of all the information available to me, including  what  we know more 
generally about how Nationwide normally sold PPI, I think its more  likely than not that Mr W 
did actively decide to take the PPI, knowing that he could choose not to do so. But I can 
understand why he may not recall  this now.
Ref: DRN26725052I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI policy to Mr W. This means that it didnt need 
to ensure that the policy was suitable for him. But it did need  to give him enough information 
for him to decide if he wanted to take it. I think its possible that the information Nationwide 
gave Mr W could have been better  than it was. But I dont  think  that better  information  would 
have changed  his mind about  buying the PPI policy. I say this because:
Mr W appears to have  been eligible for the cover and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions and limitations.
Mr W says he didnt need  the cover because he had other means of making his loan 
repayments if he couldnt work. But this policy would have  paid out in addition  to these 
other means and, potentially, for longer than they would  have lasted. It would have 
protected him for up to twelve  months if he became unemployed and up to twenty four 
months if he was unable to work because of an accident or sickness. The PPI also gave 
him some life cover. And as the loan Mr W was taking out was secured, this was a big 
financial commitment  one where  his home  might have been at risk if he wasnt able to 
make the payments.  So I still think he would have valued the extra security that the PPI 
gave him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr W. And as the premiums  
were paid monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
So I dont  think that Mr W has lost out because of anything that Nationwide  may have done 
wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said in disagreeing with our adjudicators  view.  
But this hasnt changed my mind  about not upholding  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2672505