K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 on a
credit card. Ms W says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Ms W, Capital  One had to make  it clear  the policy  was optional.  It 
also had to get Ms Ws agreement to take it out. Ms W says the PPI wasnt explained  to her 
properly. 
Capital Ones records show that Ms W took out the credit card via a postal application, and 
Ive seen the application form she completed  at that time. The form had a separate  section 
relating to additional products and I can see Ms W has declined  PPI at this stage by ticking 
the No box. Because  this box had been ticked, PPI was not set up at this time. Instead it 
was sold to Ms W a couple  of weeks later when she called Capital One to activate her new 
credit card.
Capital One hasnt been able to give us a recording of the phone  call, but it has shown us a 
copy of the script it says its call handlers  were required to follow at the time Ms B bought her 
PPI. I think  the script makes it clear that the PPI is an optional product, and prompts the call 
handler to ask for the consumers  consent before adding  PPI onto the account.  With my 
understanding of how Capital One generally  sold PPI, I think  the script  Ive seen is likely 
reflective of what would have been  said to Ms W. 
So with all this in mind,  I think  Capital One made it clear that Ms W had a choice about 
taking the PPI, and I think she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms W got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And Ms W didnt 
have any other means of covering the card repayments if she was unwell or lost her job. 
So it looks  like the PPI would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
Ref: DRN20809222Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms 
W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said, including  her comments  about her health 
issues and trying to make  a claim. But it seems the health issues  occurred after she took out 
the PPI so this isnt relevant to the sale of the policy. Capital  One doesnt appear  to have any 
record of Ms W trying  to make a claim and from what I can see Ms Ws policy ended in April 
2005. If Ms W wants to take this point further  she can contact Capital One directly. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2080922