K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr D says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 2001.
At the time of the sale, the policy cost was £1.00 per £100 Mr D owed on his store  card. The 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the card each month  if Mr D 
couldnt work because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. The policy also 
provided life cover as well as price  and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear  to Mr D that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Mr D says the policy  wasnt  mentioned to him and he has no 
idea that he had taken this cover  out.
FICL says Mr D took out the PPI over the phone. Due to the time that has passed since  the 
sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising. 
So I cant say for certain what was said to Mr D during that phone call. But from what  we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time, I think  its more  likely that FICL  would  
have asked Mr D for his agreement to add the policy  to his account.
Mr D had already had the card for over a year before the PPI was added. So when the 
charge for the PPI would  have started  to show on his monthly statements, if he didnt know  
what this amount was for or hadnt agreed  to take out the cover,  I think  he would have raised 
this sooner than he did.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mr D chose  to take it out, knowing  he could refuse  it if he didnt want  it.
Both parties  agree that FICL didnt recommend  the policy to Mr D and, as I havent seen 
anything to make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely  to be right. So it didnt have to check 
if the policy was right for him. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Mr D clear enough 
information about the policy to enable him to decide for himself if he should take the policy.
Ref: DRN26350522Its possible  the information FICL  gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given him better  or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would  have taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr D 
was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  he was 
already aware.
This policy could have paid out 15% of the outstanding balance each month until the balance  
was repaid or until he returned to work   which ever came first. From what we have been 
told Mr D was only entitled  to less than three months sick pay from his employer and doesnt  
appear to have had any other means with which to meet his repayments if he wasnt  working 
- so I think  the policy could have provided  him with a useful benefit if something  was to go 
wrong.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think the PPI policy  was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2635052