K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr and Mrs J have brought a number of other 
complaints to our Service, but this decision is about  the sale of PPI in 1994. 
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy and Santander say it covered both of them  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint because:
Due to the time thats passed, there arent any notes  available  of the meeting, and 
understandably Mr and Mrs J might not recall it clearly after so long. There  are also 
limited documents  available to me from the time of the sale,  which is not at all 
surprising considering the sale took place over 20 years  ago. So its difficult to know 
how the policy was positioned with Mr and Mrs J. 
In order for me to uphold this Id have  to think that Mr and Mrs Js account  was more 
likely than that of Santander. But as these  events happened so long ago and as 
theres no documentary  evidence to support either partys  position, I have to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs Js account  is only as likely not more  likely. 
So on balance, I cannot fairly conclude that the policy  wasnt presented  as optional or 
that they werent given a choice to take PPI.
Santander recommended  the PPI Mr and Mrs J, and it seems  to have been right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
I think Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even 
if it had, I think  Mr and Mrs J would still have bought it. Ive noted  that Mr and Mrs J 
were sent a letter outlining the cost per month after theyd applied for the mortgage  
and PPI as well as it appearing in their mortgage quotation dated 3 March  1994. But I 
cant safely say if they were made aware of the cost before  this point  as theres no 
other paperwork available. 
But when Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js limited existing means and that this policy 
could have paid out for up to either 12 or 24 months for a successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim, I still think that they could have  found  the cover  
Ref: DRN23964902useful if either of them were made unemployed or unable to work  because of 
sickness. 
Due to the time thats passed, Santander  cant confirm if the benefit period  selected 
was 12 or 24 months. Mr and Mrs J also cant remember if theyd be entitled  to any 
sick pay if they were unwell and unable to work  and although their family  may have 
wanted to help them, circumstances can change and they may not have been  in a 
position to help when needed. 
So, regardless of whether the benefit period was 12 or 24 months  I still think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and Mr and Mrs J could have found it 
useful. I also dont  think that better information  about  the policy would have changed 
Mr and Mrs Js decision about taking PPI and I dont think  that theyve lost out 
because of anything  Santander may have done  wrong. 
Its possible Santander didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But 
based on what Ive seen and been  told, it doesnt appear  that Mr and Mrs J were 
affected by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Js comments, including  what theyve said about  the 
policy being expensive  and that they could have purchased a different policy elsewhere. But 
although this policy may have  appeared  expensive to Mr and Mrs J, its comparable to 
similar policies  costing a similar amount and offering  a similar benefit sold by other 
businesses round this time. 
For the price of £88.24 per month, Mr and Mrs J were  covered for the monthly  benefit of 
£1290. In addition, as they paid for this policy by a separate direct debit, it could be 
cancelled at any point  if Mr and Mrs Js circumstances  changed, they no longer wanted  the 
policy or they wished  to check the wider market  for a different PPI policy.
  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2396490