K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him a packaged bank account.
background
Mr R originally held a fee free bank account with Lloyds. 
In July 2008, during a meeting in a Lloyds  branch,  Mr R upgraded his account to a fee 
paying Gold account.
In 2010, during a phone call with Lloyds, Mr R changed to a Premier account, which he paid 
a fee for.
Mr R downgraded to a fee free Club Lloyds  account  on 7 March  2018.
Mr Rs main complaint was that Lloyds told him he had to take the Gold  account to get a 
£3000 overdraft. He said he found out that he didnt need this account  to have the overdraft. 
Hes also unhappy that Lloyds managers  didnt call him back  when he complained.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Rs complaint.  He thought the Gold and Premier  packaged  
accounts offered  Mr R features that couldve  been useful for him and didnt think  Lloyds mis-
sold the accounts to Mr R. 
Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view. In particular, Mr R says: My dispute is not with 
the account benefits of the Premier account of which I have not denied  using, however more 
to do with how I was approved  for a £3000  overdraft facility only a couple years after the 
overdraft was reduced...
The complaint comes to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used that approach  to 
decide this complaint. 
After thinking  carefully about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Gold Account (July  2008)
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr R was given a clear  choice about taking the Gold  
account. Lloyds  was required to take reasonable steps to make Mr R aware  that taking out 
this fee paying account was optional.
Ive taken into account what Mr R told us about  the way he was sold this account. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to be able to recall exactly what was said when Lloyds 
sold him this account so long ago. Overall, what Ive been told isnt enough for me to be able 
to say that its most likely  that Lloyds misled Mr R into believing he had to upgrade in order  
to get the overdraft facility he wanted.  
Ref: DRN23472912I say this because  when Lloyds sold Mr R a Gold account he already held a fee free Classic  
account bank  account. That offered a £500  overdraft when  Mr R opened the account. The 
limit was increased to £3,500 in January 2005. 
By the time Mr R took out his Gold account,  hed previously held an overdraft on the fee-free 
Classic Account and increased  this a number of times. So, I think  he wouldve been aware 
that he didnt have to upgrade to the Gold account in order  to get a £3,000 overdraft.
I think Mr R understood that it was his choice to have the Gold  account and he chose to take 
it out.
Lloyds recommended the Gold account to Mr R. If a business makes a recommendation to a 
customer to buy a financial product, it has to take reasonable  steps to make sure that what it 
recommends is suitable. 
Despite saying that he took the account to get the overdraft limit he wanted to have, it 
appears that when  Mr R held the Gold account he didnt ever obtain or hold a planned 
overdraft. So it doesnt look like the overdraft feature of this account turned out to be very 
important to him at the time.
But this account  also offered other features that Mr R took advantage of. 
Lloyds showed  us a note from its records dated  17 July 2008.  This says it discussed  some 
packaged accounts it could offer Mr R and that Mr R informed Lloyds that he intended to 
travel. The Gold account  offered worldwide travel  insurance. So I can see why Mr R mightve 
felt this could  be a useful account  feature worth paying for.  
The Gold  account  also offered AA Breakdown  Cover (roadside assistance and accident 
management). Mr R was able to take advantage of this when he made a claim on the car 
breakdown cover in November 2008.
Mr R registered mobile  phones in December 2008  and August  2009 in order  to be able to 
benefit from the mobile phone insurance  available with the Gold  account.  
Additionally this account also offered card protection. 
Given that Mr R was interested  in the travel  insurance, able to protect  his mobile  phones  and 
benefit from the breakdown cover, I think this account was suitable overall for his needs. 
It looks like Mr R wouldve  been  able to take advantage of all the main policy benefits 
available with the Premier  account. So I dont think its likely that having more information  
about the various policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve put him off taking out the 
Premier account. I think he wouldve still chosen  to sign up to the account  and that its 
proved worthwhile for him as hes been  able to make use of benefits it offered. 
Ref: DRN23472913Premier Account (April 2010)
This account offered a £500 interest free overdraft with preferential rates above this. So 
when the Premier account was set up for Mr R it came with a planned overdraft of £500  
this increased to £3000 in July 2010.  So it looks like the overdraft feature available with this 
account was of interest to him  although  I dont think it was the main reason he upgraded to 
a Premier account. 
I think Mr R wouldve been aware that planning  an overdraft was something  hed done 
before hed had a fee paying account   and the Gold account he held at the time also 
offered an overdraft feature. So I think he wouldve understood that he didnt need  to pay for 
the Premier account  just to set up the overdraft arrangements he had in place.   
I dont know exactly what was discussed during the phone call when Mr R changed to a 
Premier account. Lloyds  has provided a note dated  29 April 2010 which indicates that Mr R 
updated to the Premier account  for the AA breakdown cover. This was a more 
comprehensive policy than the one offered with the Gold  account  it included  extra  benefits 
including Relay, Stay Mobile and Home Start. So I can see why Mr R mightve wanted to 
upgrade to the Premier  account. 
I think on balance that he decided he wanted to have some of the benefits only the Premier 
account offered  him and he chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the Premier account  to Mr R. So Ive looked carefully to see if this was 
a suitable recommendation for him. And Ive also thought about whether  Lloyds  gave Mr R 
enough clear information  to be able to decide if the account was right for him.
 
The Premier account also offered annual worldwide travel insurance, (including  family and 
winter sports), mobile phone insurance, Sentinel  card protection, identity theft protection  and 
home emergency cover. When he held the Premier  account, Mr R made successful car 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and travel cover claims. So I think  its likely he 
had a need for these benefits and the Premier account was a fair recommendation. 
I dont think its likely  that Lloyds told Mr R about  all of the significant features and exclusions 
that affected all of the insurance benefits.  But I havent seen anything  in his circumstances  to 
suggest that he wouldve been significantly affected by any of the policy limitations  at the 
time he agreed to upgrade. 
Ive looked at all the information provided  about  Mr Rs complaint. And Ive thought about 
everything hes said. But having done  so, I dont think that having clearer information about 
the various policy benefits wouldve  put him off taking out the Premier account  or that 
Lloyds has treated him unfairly overall. 
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  that Mr R is unhappy  that Lloyds enabled 
his access to credit without thinking  more carefully about his personal  circumstances. But as 
far as I can see, Lloyds  acted as a responsible lender. Its decision to offer Mr R overdraft  
facilities seems  reasonable to me looking at his circumstances at the time. 
I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy  with the service  he has received from Lloyds in the course 
of it responding  to his complaint. Although  it is clear this has caused him some  frustration, 
overall I dont consider  theres sufficient reason to award Mr R compensation for this.
Ref: DRN23472914my final decision
This means  that, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  uphold this complaint.   
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2347291