K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mr B bought the policy in 2007  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 Mr B ticked a box and signed  on the credit card agreement  to indicate he wanted PPI. 
So I think Capital One made Mr B aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it. 
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. 
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr B doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  including what  hes said about a life and sickness  
policy he had through his work. But these points dont change  my conclusion.  It seems that 
policy wouldve paid out a lump sum in the event of serious ill health or death. It wouldnt 
have helped if hed been made redundant or been  injured or been off work due to a less 
serious illness  which  the PPI wouldve  covered. So I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN26707482my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2670748