K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Aberdeen  Standard Capital Limited, trading as Standard Life 
Wealth Limited, have managed the money she invested within  their discretionary managed  
portfolio. She feels the investment choices havent  been  in line with her risk profile and that 
losses have been  incurred as a result. 
background
Mrs S is represented by her husband, Mr S  he has managed financial affairs  for them  both 
over the years.  Both Mr and Mrs S were introduced to Standard Life by their independent  
financial adviser (IFA)  Mrs S transferred her personal pension  and ISA to their 
management in 2010. Mrs S appeared happy  with her portfolio in its earlier  years. But from 
2015 onwards  it didnt  perform as well as hoped  particularly an element called the strategic 
investment allocation (SIA) fund. While Mrs S says she recognised volatility  in the markets  
affected the value of her investments, she also felt Standard Life had taken too much risk 
and ought to have changed their strategy given the sustained period of losses,  rather than 
sticking with it and continuing to lose more money.
So in 2018, Mrs S raised concerns with Standard  Life. These  were  treated as a formal  
complaint but Standard Life didnt agree theyd done anything  wrong.  They acknowledged 
performance hadnt been what  theyd  hoped,  but didnt agree  they ought to refund the fees 
paid, as had been asked.  So she moved her money away from Standard  Life. 
Mrs S then asked our service  for help. Her complaint was considered by one of our 
adjudicators, but he didnt  agree  Standard Life had done anything  wrong.  He felt theyd 
invested in line with the agreement and that while there were some higher risk investments 
in the portfolio, they were  balanced by lower risk ones. He didnt think  the volatility  was 
inconsistent with what could reasonably  be expected from a medium risk portfolio either,  so 
didnt think it would  be fair to ask Standard  Life to refund the fees paid given they werent 
dependent on producing  gains. 
Mrs S remained unhappy   she said Standard Lifes brief was to preserve her wealth, not 
diminish it. She appreciated that there  would  be ups and downs, but there had been 
consistent losses for three years which wasnt acceptable, especially given her risk appetite 
which she defined as cautious. She thought the reassurances given  during  those  last years 
led to real financial loss as well as worry. She still felt fees ought  to be refunded as they 
hadnt been earned. So her case was passed to me for review. I reviewed the case  and 
issued provisional  findings. I said, in summary:
I can see Mrs S feels very strongly about  how her portfolio  has been managed and 
the investment  strategy that was followed. Ive thought very carefully about what 
shes said, but Im afraid I dont think Standard  Life have done anything wrong here. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mrs S, so Ill explain why. 
In short,  Mrs S had invested with Standard  Life for around eight years.  But during the 
last three,  her portfolio didnt do as well as it had done before, which led to her 
closing it in 2018. Mrs S knows that our service  wouldnt consider performance  
downturn alone as reason to compensate her, but instead that we need to think 
about what was agreed with Standard  Life and what was ultimately  provided  in 
return. 
Ref: DRN20919972suitability
Mrs Ss husband shared  a letter with us from their IFA  its dated August 2010.  It 
confirmed advice to move from a current product provider to Standard  Life and it 
referred to both Mr and Mrs S who had completed Standard Life risk profiles and 
were classed as medium  risk investors.  
Standard Life have told us that Mrs S IFA assessed  her attitude to risk, not them. 
Ive reviewed an example  of what terms would have been agreed between Standard 
Life and the IFA when a client like Mrs S was being  introduced  but they left it open  
by mentioning both the possibility of themselves or the IFA assessing suitability. 
Unfortunately, Standard  Life havent been  able to share any paperwork to confirm  
either way, but that is understandable as I appreciate  we are now considering  events 
from 11 years ago. Despite this, given what Ive seen  from the August 2010  letter  Im 
inclined to agree it was the IFA who advised  Mrs S here  I say that because  the 
letter covered the reason for switching providers, it set out objectives and underneath 
a sub-heading of suitability  of recommendation it said I firmly believe that the 
transfer to Standard Life Wealth is the best move for you It was therefore  for the 
IFA to decide whether  the proposed medium risk portfolio  and its make-up was 
something that would  be suitable for Mrs S, given her personal and financial 
circumstances. 
Thinking more about that proposal,  Ive seen a PowerPoint presentation  that was 
shared with Mrs S and her IFA in February  2009. This was a 22 page document  that 
explained, in summary,  Standard Lifes approach, examples of what theyd invested 
in, what their strategy looked like in practice  and what a client could expect  in terms 
of their experience.  As the expert, it was for Mrs S IFA to understand and assess all 
of the information provided, and make a decision as to whether or not they 
recommended the portfolio to Mrs S as their client. 
Looking at what was explained, on slide four reference was made  to how Standard 
Life intended on increasing certainty through  volatility  management and a graph 
showed how they intended  on smoothing returns to reduce fluctuation demonstrated  
in what they called more traditional approaches. Slide five explained things further, 
and made  reference  to why Standard Life portfolios  were different to others   there  
were various different asset classes mentioned, along with paired trades,  
opportunistic investments,  uncorrelated  investments and options  for risk mitigation.
On slide six, reference  was made to the SIA fund and a summary of the top five 
positions within it; short equity markets globally, long Japanese  interest rates, long 
Euro interest rate swap, a future  relative to two FTSE indices and a future relative  to 
the German and Swiss  markets. 
So from all I have seen, Standard Life explained  what they were offering clearly and 
fairly. It was for Mrs S IFA to decide whether the proposed investment strategy  was 
suitable  which they clearly did  and I think the information they had to do this was 
sufficiently clear. 
Ref: DRN20919973I also find that any concerns about  the ongoing suitability of the investment strategy 
were also for the IFA to address through ongoing  reviews. Regular reports were 
shared with Mrs S and her IFA, so they were well informed of the decisions being 
made as well as ongoing  performance. 
Mrs S and her husband began using a different IFA in 2014. This new IFA wrote to 
her husband  in October that year regarding other  matters, but also commented on 
the Standard Life portfolios they both held. The IFA said:
At our meeting you confirmed that there had been  no change in your attitude 
to risk which we and Standard Life Wealth have previously agreed  with you is 
medium risk, although  you once again emphasised that you now consider 
capital preservation with reasonable  growth  far more important than outright 
investment return,  not least due to your possible pending retirement and the 
fact that your pension  and indeed your and [Mrs S] investment portfolios will 
be needed to provide  you with an additional source  of income for the 
remainder of your lifetimes. We would therefore confirm we consider the 
discretionary portfolios  run by Standard Life Wealth to be particularly suitable  
in your cases and would not recommend  any change at this stage. Certainly 
the recent upturn in investment market volatility and the significant  falls that 
have happened  in the last few days have shown that the way Standard Life 
Wealth run their investment  portfolios  compared  to a more  traditional 
approach of a medium-risk portfolio has been  significant in your favour.
So the IFA reconfirmed  the ongoing suitability of the portfolio. And this was despite  
the reference of capital  preservation for both Mrs S and her husband  something 
which they explain to us now highlights how they became cautious  as the years went 
on. 
From everything Ive seen  here, it was Mrs S IFAs who were responsible with 
deciding whether or not Standard Lifes offering met her personal and financial 
needs. So whether Mrs S was a cautious  or medium risk investor and whether the 
Standard Life portfolio  met her objectives was ultimately for her IFA to conclude.
Thereafter, the portfolio was a discretionary arrangement, so it was for Standard Life 
to make investment  decisions on behalf  of Mrs S along the lines of the agreed  level 
of risk. Ill consider that next.
the discretionary agreement
Looking back to the start, Mrs S relationship with Standard Life began  in 2010 when 
she was 64 years old. Ive seen a copy of the investment objectives and restrictions  
that were set at the time. These were  as follows:
Ref: DRN20919974Objective  capital  growth  
Purpose  to grow  the sum to create  a retirement income
Risk profile  medium 
You are prepared to accept an average amount  of risk during  the time 
horizon of your investments but have a strong desire  to reach  your goal. You 
are looking  for a balance  of risk and reward, with the aim that, in the longer 
term, higher returns may result than those from lower risk investments. You 
are willing to accept  that the value of your investments will fall and rise and 
you may get back less than you invest.
Restrictions and constraints  Please note: No transaction  which  results in a 
leverage portfolio  will be entered into (i.e. borrowing and short  selling)
Timeline  ongoing, more than five years
Benchmark  6 month Libor
Target  6 month Libor +3%
So Mrs S was set to have  a medium risk approach to investing. Broadly speaking,  
this would expose her to fluctuation which aimed to provide growth  over the longer 
term. In 2013, Mrs S risk profile was changed to medium low following what 
Standard Life call their risk categorisation recalibration project. This was defined  as: 
You are prepared to accept a moderate amount of risk over your time 
horizon. You want to protect the value of your investments but you want them 
to grow as well. Under normal circumstances, you would not expect your 
investments to fall and rise sharply  in value. You accept that, in the longer 
term, a higher level of risk may result  in higher returns.
As a discretionary portfolio manager, it was for Standard Life to work within the 
confines of what  was agreed  with Mrs S, but they still had ultimate discretion as to 
which investment selection was chosen.  
From everything Ive seen, the investments made  over the eight years were broadly  
in line with the agreement Standard Life had to work with. The arrangement entitled 
Standard Life to apply discretion in using a mixture of underlying  investments  with 
different risk profiles in order to achieve an overall  portfolio  that matched Mrs S 
circumstances. 
In the earlier  years, at times there  was a fairly  even split in the underlying  
investments  around 25%-30% bonds, 30% in equities,  30%-35%  in the SIA fund as 
well as some  other things like structured products. In the later years, there  appeared 
to be less of a focus on bonds, with the percentages moving  to around 10%-15% and 
instead an increase  to 45% or so in equities. Looking  at various snapshots  
throughout the years, I think the investment decisions  were broadly in line with what 
was agreed and the strategy that was shared in the review  presentations. 
Standard Life recognise the inherent  features of the SIA fund carried  higher risk than 
some of the other  elements of the portfolio  but the intention  was for these products 
to complement  or offset risks found  within other  investment choices. While significant 
losses were seen within the SIA element of the portfolio, to judge that now with the 
benefit of hindsight wouldnt be right or fair. 
Ref: DRN20919975I can see that the volatility management within the SIA fund intended on protecting 
the rest of the portfolio from losses, but things  played out differently in the markets  
and ultimately the hedging went against Mrs S rather than helping  her. The theory  
didnt play out as intended,  but this isnt something I can now hold Standard Life 
responsible for  the concept was in line with what Mrs S was sold and what  her IFAs 
agreed to be suitable  for her from the outset as well as four years later. It was also 
something that Standard Life drew attention to when the relationship first began, and 
it also featured in the regular reviews. Any concerns about the fund suitability would 
have, or ought  reasonably to have,  been  considered by the IFA at the time. 
Any investment manager  will always have to balance a clients  goals alongside  their 
capacity and appetite for risk. From  what Ive seen here, the combination of things 
Standard Life exposed Mrs S to over the years  did indeed produce results  in line with 
her expectations  until 2015  or so at least. But more importantly, the investment  
choices were also in line with the levels and sorts  of exposure Mrs S IFA agreed was 
suitable for her, not only at the beginning but throughout the lifetime of the portfolio 
given the regular update  and review packs. 
There were elements of higher risk within the portfolio, particularly  in the presence of 
the SIA fund when  the equity percentage increased  and the fixed  interest element 
reduced. And while there were  arguably periods where Mrs S was exposed to more 
risk than she now says she would have liked, the portfolio composition was clearly  
disclosed so it was for the IFA as Mrs S appointed expert to assess those  risks and 
decide whether  or not they were right for her to continue with. 
So from all that I have  seen, throughout the investment lifetime Standard Life worked 
to the agreed  mandate and were transparent in terms of the construction  of the 
portfolio, their ideas  around risk management, as well as the SIA fund itself. The 
impact of the fund on the wider portfolio in the last years was of course  disappointing,  
but this in itself isnt something Id ask Standard  Life to compensate  for.
charges
Mrs S has asked  that at the very least, the charges  shed been paying in the later 
years are refunded. Thats because  Standard  Life have always  set out to preserve 
and grow her capital, not deplete it. But I dont agree. The fees wont have been 
dependent on producing  positive returns  theyre there to pay the investment  
managers for doing their jobs and for all of the ancillary things needed to support a 
portfolio of investments like dealing, custody and administration. 
While Mrs S feels the managers havent  done their jobs as theyve lost her money, 
they have been devising and executing  a strategy   this is doing their job. The 
strategy implementation didnt work out in the way the theory  expected, but this 
doesnt mean they shouldnt get paid for doing their jobs, nor does it mean the other  
costs associated with holding and administering investments fall away. Because of 
this, I dont plan on asking Standard Life to refund any fees.
Standard Life agreed with my findings and didnt have  anything  to add. 
Ref: DRN20919976Mrs S replied and said, in summary:
While  the outcome was disappointing,  she was grateful for the attention  and thought 
Id given to her complaint
Nevertheless, she remains  of the view that the faults here sit with Standard  Life, not 
with her IFA, as despite recognition  that underlying  markets  fluctuate, Standard Life 
produced three years  of consecutive losses  and this was when others in the market 
were earning money, not losing it
She completely  understood that investments go down as well as up, but her losses  
were considerably worse  than any of the other investment companies and friends  in 
similar positions
Shed  attended  various meetings with Standard Life and the IFA at home, at a local 
coffee shop and at the Standard Life office,  but was always  given positive 
reassurances and told the portfolio was pregnant with growth
The IFA she switched to was highly recommended by Standard  Life
She and her husband had worked  long hours  and long weeks for decades  to build 
successful businesses  with the hope  of a comfortable retirement  and inheritance for 
their children   but as they approached the most critical years  from the retirement 
viewpoint, the losses Standard Life delivered reduced their pensions  by £200,000 to 
£250,000
Despite the review of the case, she does  feel this is another  example of the big 
company winning  and the individual  left with her losses
And she was willing  to meet to discuss the case with me as her personal  views were 
honestly felt and held.
She and her husband  sent another email  too as theyd had sleepless nights and were awake 
with frustration  she said shed always had a low to medium risk appetite along with capital 
preservation as her goal. She asked why Standard Life are viewed as having looked after 
her with professional  care, while her and her husbands investments fell 10% in a short  
space of time. She didnt see how appalling losses could be excused given the emphasis the 
Government puts on saving for retirement.  Ultimately, she felt Standard Life should be held 
to account for the losses here.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive carefully considered  Mrs S response  and whether it alters the view I shared in my 
provisional findings. But Im sorry to say it hasnt. In saying this, I dont doubt that Mrs S 
views are strongly and honestly  felt  its just that this comes back  to who ought  to be 
responsible for her losses, and I dont think its Standard Life.  
I said before  that I did agree there were arguably periods of higher risk within  Mrs S 
portfolio, particularly during the years  where more  money was lost  this was when the 
equity percentage  increased, the fixed interest element reduced and the SIA fund was still a 
third of the portfolio. But while periods like this did perhaps expose Mrs S money to more 
risk than she says shed have liked, that was for her IFA to monitor and assess, not 
Standard Life. 
Ref: DRN20919977I highlighted  something  the adviser  had said in 2014  when writing to her husband  you  
now consider capital preservation with reasonable growth far more  important  than outright 
investment return not least due to your possible pending retirement and the fact that your 
pension and indeed  your and [Mrs S] investment  portfolios will be needed to provide you 
with an additional  source of income  for the remainder of your lifetimes but despite this the 
IFA confirmed the portfolio remained suitable. In my view,  Standard  Life set out what their 
portfolio composition  was and it was quite clear  for the IFA to see how their clients  money 
was invested and to decide whether the portfolio remained suitable. 
While Mrs S and her husband may have been  reassured by a hopeful  IFA or hopeful 
representative of Standard Life, I can only now consider Standard Lifes  actions  and I think 
they reported what they were doing and what  their strategy was clearly enough for the IFA to 
assess ongoing suitability.  And even if Standard Life did highly recommend the IFA, it 
doesnt mean they are ultimately responsible  for their work or are otherwise vicariously  
liable. 
I would like to try and reassure Mrs S that in no way is my judgement  swayed by whichever 
party is the larger. Our service has no allegiance  to either businesses  or consumers  
instead we look to resolve the dispute fairly,  regardless  of the outcome. And there certainly 
are times where we ask big businesses to do something differently. 
Its just in this case, from what  I have  seen Standard Life invested  Mrs S money broadly in 
line with the agreement they had with her and the concept that was explained at inception. 
Some of the years it worked  well, but in others it didnt. It was from 2015 onwards the 
volatility management or hedging  that the SIA fund intended to provide wasnt actually 
needed; the markets went up but Mrs S money didnt as it was hampered by the SIA 
positions which had been designed to protect her. The theory didnt  play out as intended, but 
like I said before, the concept  was in line with what Mrs S was sold and what her IFAs 
agreed to be suitable  for her from the outset, as well as four years later. 
So although  I fully appreciate the disappointment that my decision brings,  I havent  been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings  and therefore do not uphold  the complaint 
against Standard Life. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about Standard Life Wealth  
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2091997