K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Fortune Financial Services  (Fortune) failed to deliver the advisory service  he was 
entitled to between 2015 and 2018  (the complaint period); and that as a result the 
performance of his Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) declined.
background
Mr R has provided the following summary:
His adviser/client relationship with Fortune (and,  in particular, its Principal) began 
around 30 years ago; around 2006  he sought its advice on his pension 
arrangements; and in 2008 the arrangement was made (and executed) to move 
around half of his pension into the SIPP, based on a medium  risk profile and with the 
intention to draw income from 2012; in 2008,  it was also Fortunes  express advice 
that he and Fortune  should jointly assess the progress of [his] residual pension  
fund at least every twelve months .
At the beginning  of the drawings, he discussed an annual  drawdown figure of £6,000 
with Fortune. In 2013  (when the SIPPs value was around £104,000) Fortune advised 
him  verbally and in its letter of April that year  that he could afford to increase this 
to £7,311.
Up to 2014 his engagement  with Fortune had gone well, there had been review 
meetings, responses to his enquiries,  investment recommendations and fund 
switches up to then.
From  2015 and up to 2018 there  was little to no such engagement and no activity 
within the SIPP; Fortune  made no contact with him and no 12 monthly reviews were  
offered to him.
This coincided, around 2017, with serious ill health matters  he and his wife faced, 
during which  he did not focus on the SIPP as closely as he normally would have; 
however, by August 2018 he had capacity to do so and he enquired  into the state  of 
the SIPP; he learnt that its value had dropped from £99,104 (in May 2014) to £82,976 
at the time  its value later fell to £79,503  in October  that year; irrespective of the 
drawings from the SIPP during the complaint period (and the state  of the market)  he 
was concerned about the drop in value of around £19,600 (up to August 2018); he 
considered that the decline in value was something Fortune  could have  alerted  us 
to in [its] reviews had they taken place or indeed at any other time 
He met with Fortune  on 22 October  2018 to have his concerns addressed, the 
meeting was lengthy (and was voice recorded) and Fortune  did not competently 
address its failings  for example, with regards to the matter of contact Fortunes  
Principal contradicted himself by first saying he thought there had been contact 
during the complaint period and then saying  I am not the sort of person who does 
this, there was nothing stopping you from ringing  me; Fortunes Principal spent time 
in the meeting giving  an analysis of the market (in relation to the SIPP)  that was 
essentially three years too late; and by the end of the meeting Fortune  confirmed 
withdrawal of its service; he subsequently moved servicing of his SIPP to a new 
adviser.
Fortune disputes  the complaint. It says its position  has been presented in its letters to Mr R 
of 25 October and 12 December 2018, and in its letters to this service of 23 July 2019  and 7 
May 2020. Its position, as expressed  in these letters, is mainly as follows:
Ref: DRN25928842Mr Rs reference to an agreed medium risk profile in 2008  is mistaken  and appears  to 
be an afterthought on his part. At the time, it recommended an asset  allocation  of 
30% in Index-linked and Bond assets,  and 70% in more volatile assets.  In 2012 a 
low/lower risk profile was recommended  and adopted for the SIPP  as it considered  
this suitable and necessary in order to accommodate  the drawdowns that were to 
begin in that year. It defined Mr Rs risk profile,  in 2012, as needing income but risk 
embracing.  In 2013 the SIPP  contained  48% in equities holdings, 46% in fixed 
interest holdings  and 6% in cash;  in the same year it proposed a fund switch that 
would have marginally increased  its risk profile, but Mr R declined the proposal.
Mr Rs reference to what it said in 2008 about joint annual reviews is incomplete;  it 
went on to say that if he wished he could call to discuss any enquiries he had and 
there is history of him doing this a number of times before 2015 without restriction;  
during the complaint period he did not contact  Fortune  but he retained the same 
unrestricted access to do so as he previously had. It can be inferred from his 
submissions that he prioritised personal  matters during the complaint  period and paid 
less attention to his SIPP.  This could explain the reduction of his contact with Fortune 
and, in the context  of the gravity of those matters, this is understandable. However, 
there are no grounds to blame Fortune  in this respect.
It should also be noted that review  meetings were arranged upon requests,  so the 
absence of any such requests from him during the complaint period explains the 
absence of such meetings  in that period; nevertheless, Fortune did continue to 
conduct reviews of the SIPP;  overall, upon due consideration and in the context of 
widespread uncertainties caused  by events  leading to the Brexit  vote and then 
events thereafter   which all featured during the complaint period  it decided not to 
recommend any action (or fund switches)  within the SIPP. 
Its chronology of work done  for Mr R shows that during the life of the SIPP  
(especially from 2010)  and up to the end of 2014 there had been many considered, 
advised and executed  fund switches within it. However, it would have been wrong to 
conduct fund switches during the complaint period without  considered  cause to do 
so, and it took the view no such cause existed.
The reality of Mr Rs situation, in a nutshell, is that he had a relatively  small pension  
from which he was drawing the maximum income despite  its warnings to him that this 
was unsustainable.  The drawdowns  depleted  the SIPPs capital  at the same time as 
the remainder capital was exposed to investment  and market volatility over time. It 
recommended, many  times, the more  sustainable option of purchasing  an annuity in 
order to provide Mr R with a guaranteed  income,  but he always  declined  the 
recommendation as he preferred the freedom of and early benefits from a drawdown 
arrangement in which he could maximise his income early/at the outset.  
Unfortunately, he ignored the risks he was repeatedly  warned about.  
Mr Rs suggestion that it encouraged  him to maximise his drawdowns  is mistaken.  In 
the letter of April 2013 that he mentions, it confirmed what  he was entitled to 
withdraw based on the Government  Actuary Department (GAD) maximum.  It is 
implausible that it encouraged him to maximise  his drawdowns in this respect given 
that it had previously  on many  occasions in 2008,  2010, 2011 and 2012  advised 
him about the risk and unsustainability of doing  so.
At the end of 2014 Mr Rs SIPP was worth £96,044.27, in October 2018 it was worth  
£79,291.05 and, in between, Mr R had withdrawn a total income of £27,344.24. 
Based on these figures there  is no question of a financial loss.
One of our investigators  concluded as follows:
The complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN25928843The complaint  should not be determined on performance alone  and it has not been 
addressed on this basis, instead  the matter that has been  considered  is whether  (or 
not) the SIPP was suitably advised  by Fortune during the complaint  period.
It is not in dispute that no review meetings happened during the complaint period; 
nevertheless, evidence shows that Fortune  did review the SIPP  during this period; 
evidence also supports the conclusion that Mr R had a low capacity for loss with 
regards to the SIPP; in 2012 he was aware that Fortune had recommended very low 
risk funds  for the SIPP  and that the recommendation had been  applied; there is no 
evidence that the SIPP was moved  into a higher (medium) risk profile funds 
thereafter and this is one aspect in which Fortunes advice was flawed.
From  2012 onwards  Mr R was drawing upon  the SIPP, this was not supported by the 
SIPPs low risk profile [given the associated low prospect  of returns]. Higher  returns 
would have helped  to avoid eroding  the SIPPs value and to sustain the drawings, so 
the SIPP should have been  moved  into a medium risk profile  for this purpose. In the 
alternative, Mr R should have been  advised to reduce the level of his drawings.
Despite Fortune reviewing the SIPP during the complaint period, the fact that it had 
no engagement  with Mr R meant those reviews failed to take into account  his 
circumstances (and changes in his circumstances)  as they were at the time. It is 
accepted that fund switches do not guarantee a particular outcome, however the 
same impact from Brexit [that Fortune referred  to] meant the complaint period was 
uncertain and that there was a need  for Fortune to have engaged with Mr R in order  
to suitably advise  on the SIPP.
The result  is the financial loss claimed by Mr R and the trouble and upset he 
experienced in the matter  especially as he was partly denied  the service he paid 
for, given the absence  of review meetings and of recommendations based on his 
circumstances as they were during the complaint  period. His financial loss should be 
redressed, and he should be paid £100  for the trouble and upset he has been  
caused.
Mr R accepted this outcome, but Fortune did not. Its responses have, in the main, been 
captured in the summary of its position  above.  The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator.
I consider as follows:
Fortunes chronology of its work for Mr R has been helpful. I shows  that, subsequent 
to the SIPP  being  set up in 2008,  it conducted a review meeting with Mr R, an 
internal review of the SIPP and a set of fund switches in 2010; it conducted a review  
meeting with Mr R in 2011;  it conducted  two review meetings with Mr R and a set of 
fund switches in 2012; it conducted a review meeting with Mr R in 2013; and it 
conducted a set of fund switches and wrote an advice letter  to Mr R in 2014. Overall, 
I am satisfied that the SIPP was kept under  review   and that it was under active  
advised management  prior to the complaint  period. 
Fortunes record includes reference  to a need  for lower risk funds (because of the 
impending drawdowns)  being discussed in its first meeting with Mr R in 2012. 
However, in the second meeting in 2012, there is reference  to a strong wish to go for 
higher returns being  discussed with Mr R, and Fortune noted this as a contradictory 
Ref: DRN25928844position to adopt. In the letter, from Fortune  to Mr R, that followed the second 2012 
meeting it warned that that the SIPPs performance would be  curtailed with lower 
risk funds. 
During the complaint period, no review meetings with Mr R were held; no fund 
switches were  recommended  or applied (until, it appears, such  recommendations 
were made in late 2018 after Mr R resumed contact with Fortune);  but Fortune 
performed an internal  review of the SIPP in 2016,  two internal reviews in 2017  and 
an internal review in 2018.
The immediate conclusion to draw is that, in contrast to the period  between 2010 and 
2014, there was a distinctly reduced  level of activity  and engagement related to the 
SIPP during the complaint period. 
I understand Fortunes point  that Mr R could have requested  a meeting at any time. 
However, I consider  it fair to also give weight to its advice  to Mr R at the outset,  that 
ongoing reviews  of the SIPP  would  be a joint (and annual) affair, between him and 
Fortune. In this context, and as he was paying for the relevant service, I do not 
consider it unreasonable for him to have  expected a degree of contact initiated by 
Fortune in this respect  even  if he was also free to ask for review  meetings. 
History prior to the complaint period shows that he was committed to the review  
meetings and attended them. In the absences of requests from him in 2015, 2016, 
2017 and 2018  (prior to the contact he made later that year) it is reasonable to 
expect that Fortune ought to have initiated  invitations for the review  meetings. It 
appears to be agreed that these were significant  and uncertain  times in the market; 
evidence suggests that the SIPPs value continued to be impacted upon  during the 
same period, because  of its profile, because of the wider market and because of the 
drawings of income from it; had such contact  been  made, Fortune would also have 
learnt about the changes in Mr Rs circumstances (including updates on the serious 
ill health matters) around the same time.  
Overall, it is fair to conclude   as the investigator appears to have  done   that, during 
the complaint  period, the absence  of contact with Mr R deprived  the ongoing SIPP 
review process of important input  from him (in terms of his circumstances), deprived 
him of a degree  of awareness  about the state  of the SIPP  and deprived both parties 
of important discussions they needed to have in terms  of the SIPPs ongoing 
management. Fortune  was the expert in this relationship and should reasonably take 
primary responsibility in this respect.  It is evident from the internal reviews it 
conducted during  the complaint period  that it was aware of this primary responsibility.  
However, it appears to have only partially  discharged it by conducting reviews  
arguably in a bubble (that featured only Fortune and its views on the SIPP) and 
without input from Mr R. There is evidence on the previous  review meetings that 
shows his input  was always  important to the process, as were his updates to Fortune 
about his circumstances. 
I also understand Fortunes point on its warnings  to Mr R about the unsustainability of 
his drawings from the SIPP, but I consider  that this does more  to highlight its failing 
than it does to support  its defence.  The investigators view about either reducing the 
level of drawings or increasing the risk profile  of the SIPP  (and therefore its potential 
for returns) is a logical one. With Fortune having foreseen  and identified  the 
(un)sustainability problem, as the expert in the relationship it had a duty to 
recommend a solution. It says it repeatedly advised the reduction of drawings, but Mr 
R declined its advice.  If that was the case, evidence  does not show  that it did the 
reasonable alternative  that is, recommend an increase in the SIPPs risk profile in 
order to improve its performance  prospects. Instead, it recommended the opposite. It 
recommended a lowering of its risk profile  and coupled that with a warning  (that its 
performance would be  curtailed with lower risk funds). 
Ref: DRN25928845Overall, this arguably meant that it knew of the problem, it says it advised on 
addressing it by warning about the level of the drawings but Mr R ignored the 
warning(s), then it essentially advised on sustaining the problem  by lowering the 
prospect of the SIPPs performance,  and it appears to have made  no alternative 
recommendation to address it. I do not consider this suitable advice and that 
unsuitability was compounded by the retention of this state of affairs, throughout the 
complaint period.
Fortune criticised the investigators suggestion of increasing  the SIPPs  risk profile  to 
medium during the complaint period. It says this was unrealistic  in the context  of     
Mr Rs low capacity  for loss and the onset  of the serious ill health matters around the 
time. On balance and in the circumstances as they were, I too consider that the 
SIPPs risk profile  should not have been reduced  to low and that it should have been 
at a medium level. Based on the risk/return correlation that usually exists in 
investments, a medium risk profile  would have given the SIPP  the better performance 
prospects it needed to have a chance  of sustaining Mr Rs drawings. 
I do not consider  Fortunes criticism  to be fair. I do not suggest that Mr Rs capacity 
for loss should have  been ignored and I note Fortunes point about the development 
of the ill health matters at the time. However,  it is noteworthy  that in 2008  the SIPP 
did not have a low profile. As Fortune has confirmed 70% of it was exposed  to more 
volatile assets,  so whilst 30% was held in Index-linked and Bond assets it still, at 
least, had a leaning towards a medium risk profile  or it actually held such a profile   
which is the profile Mr R says he had at the time. Fortune  will argue that drawings 
had not begun in 2008. However,  when they began  in 2012 it assessed Mr Rs profile 
as needing income but risk embracing . This too does not suggest a low risk profile 
and can arguably  be deemed a description of a medium risk profile. 
Therefore, Mr R and the SIPP had history with a medium  risk profile, with arguably 
comparable pension  size and capacity for loss context. The idea of increasing the 
SIPPs risk profile  to medium during the complaint period was essentially an idea of 
returning it to what  it was before Fortune recommended the lowering of its profile. I 
accept there was more  pressure on the pension size and on Mr Rs capacity for loss 
once drawdowns  began but there was also competing pressure on the sustainability  
of those drawdowns without the prospect of improved performance.  Something had 
to be done. Unfortunately,  Fortunes response was to maintain the situation  in an 
unresolved state during the complaint  period  and to do nothing. 
Even if Mr R was previously reluctant to reduce the level of drawings, I consider that 
reasonable engagement  with him in the management of the SIPP  during  the 
complaint period  would have fostered further discussion about that, about his options  
and about the urgency to review any previously held positions (on both sides).  The 
impact from the lack of such engagement  cannot reasonably be understated and it 
stands at the core of Mr Rs complaint. 
The SIPP required  ongoing consideration, analysis, advice and advisory  
management and Fortunes ongoing  service  to Mr R was key to that ongoing  
process. Without meaningful activity in these  respects during the complaint period  
given the unresolved  (un)sustainability problem, Mr Rs changes in circumstances 
and the wider political, economical and market climate at the time  it is reasonable 
to conclude that the SIPP (including its performance) was directly and adversely 
affected. Fortune holds responsibility  in this context (and, on balance, on the facts), 
for reasons  addressed  above, so Mr Rs complaint is well founded and is upheld.
fair compensation
Ref: DRN25928846My aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable  advice during the complaint period. This will be based on the finding that the 
SIPPs risk profile should not have been reduced  to low and, instead, should have been  at a 
medium level so, as stated below, redress starts from when the SIPP  was unsuitably 
switched into a low/lower risk profile. 
On balance, I consider  that Mr R would have behaved differently with suitable advice. It is 
not possible to say precisely what  he would  have done, but I am satisfied that what  I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances  and objectives at the time.  I 
also agree  with the investigators finding that Mr R should receive £100 for the trouble and 
upset that the complaint matter has caused  him.
what must  Fortune do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Fortune must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Rs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference  must be paid 
to Mr R in compensation. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Fortune is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr R the deduction  amount and give him a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Rs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation should  not be 
paid into his pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income,  so the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional  
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic  rate of 
tax. If he would  have  been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset  caused  to him.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr R in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Ref: DRN25928847  Mr Rs 
Standard Life SIPPTransferred  FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total  
Return 
Index (prior 
to 1 March 
2017,  the 
FTSE 
WMA 
Stock  
Market 
Income 
Total  
Return 
Index)Date  the 
SIPP was 
switched 
into the 
low/lower 
risk profileDate the 
SIPP was 
transferred away from 
Fortunes serviceRedress should 
be brought, 
from the end 
date, up to date 
in this respect 
using the same 
index.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted  from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation  
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if Fortune totals all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr R appears  to have had a balanced/medium  investor profile for the SIPP at the 
outset and up to the point Fortune unsuitably lowered its risk profile, so he would 
have been prepared to take some risk in order to achieve a higher return.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Rs profile is broadly reflected  in this benchmark and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he could have 
obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable investments.
As stated above and as the investigator  said, Fortunes responsibility for any loss 
ends on the date on which its servicing of the SIPP ended. Interest thereafter is to be 
applied at the performance rate arising from the benchmark above in order  to 
Ref: DRN25928848compensate Mr R for being  deprived of any redress amount.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Fortune Financial 
Services to compensate him as set out above  and to provide him with the calculation of 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2592884