K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited didnt pay her claim 
under her pet insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I include an extract  from my provisional  
decision here:
Ms R has a time-limited pet insurance policy with Red Sands. This means  it covers  her dog 
for 365 days from the first signs or symptoms  of an illness or injury.
In April 2017 Ms Rs dog was treated by the vet because he had some  signs of lameness. 
Her vet made a claim to Red Sands, which it paid less the policy excess.
Ms Rs dogs condition  improved with medication.  But in 2018 he became lame  in his left 
hind leg. After tests Ms Rs vet suspected a problem  with the dogs left cruciate  ligament in 
the knee joint or stifle.  The vet made  a claim for the initial  treatment fees, as a continuation  
claim for lameness. 
Red Sands  said the lameness would be covered only for 365 days from the onset of that 
condition, which it said was April 2017. This meant it didnt pay any part of the continuation 
claim because  the small payable part of the claim fell below the policy excess.  It said cover 
for the condition had expired, and put an exclusion on the policy  for claims in respect  of both 
stifles backdated  to 1 June  2017, which was the first policy renewal date after the onset of 
the condition.   
Ms Rs vet asked Red Sands to reconsider.  The vet explained that the claim had been  
submitted as a continuation claim, but in fact was a new claim, unconnected with the 2017 
claim for suspected osteoarthritis in the dogs hip. The vet said the symptoms for the new 
claim had started on 21 April 2018. The dog was suffering from a cruciate ligament injury in 
his left hind leg, which was separate to the osteoarthritis previously diagnosed. 
But Red Sands didnt agree it was unconnected, and said it wouldnt pay the claim. Ms R 
didnt think this was fair and came to us. She explained shed had to take out a payment plan 
to pay for the costs  of more than £3,000, which had left her in some financial difficulty. Our 
investigator concluded that Red Sands had dealt fairly with the claim.  Ms R didnt agree, so 
the complaint  has come  to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Ms Rs time limited  policy  covers her dog for accident, illness  and disease.  This is subject to 
a policy  limit and for up to 365 days only from the date of occurrence. The date of 
occurrence isnt defined in the policy but Red Sands says its from the first signs or 
symptoms of the illness, disease  or injury. 
Ref: DRN25736102Ms Rs dog was first treated for lameness on 17 April 2017.  Using  this date as the first sign 
or symptom means Red Sands was entitled  to pay the claim only for 365 days  from this 
date.
But I need to decide whether Red Sands dealt fairly with the claim. And in doing so, Ive 
carefully considered  all the evidence. This includes the treating vets evidence and the 
information Red Sands has provided  about cruciate  ligament disease and its connection with 
osteoarthritis. 
Theres no dispute that Ms Rs dog had lameness in April 2017. But lameness isnt a 
condition. Rather its a sign or symptom of an illness, disease or injury.  The vet who treated 
Ms Rs dog made clinical notes about the dogs  symptoms, history and examinations  as 
follows:
18 April 2017: The vet said the reason for the dog being brought into the surgery was 
because hed been limping,  especially when  he got up. The vets record  of the history 
to this included  that the dog had been  limping left hind especially  after rest. Toe 
touching often. On examination the vet noted  the dog had a reduced range of 
movement in the left hip and pain on extension.  The vet was unable  to get cranial  
drawer. (An examination  of cranial  drawer is to assess the cruciate  ligament in the 
stifle). 
The vets assessment was hip dysplasia? OA [osteoarthritis]? Cruciate Dx 
[disease]? The note says that the vet discussed  the options with Ms R  either to 
have analgesia  and wait and see or to have rads (x-rays). The x-ray didnt reveal 
decreased range of hip movement, and showed  only slight joint effusion (swelling)  in 
the left stifle, which wasnt palpable (detectable by examination). The vet reported 
no major  skeletal abnormalities to account  for lameness, only mild joint effusion. The 
vet suggested  weight loss, regular low grade exercise and NSAIDS (anti-
inflammatory medication with a brand  name of Metacam).
26 April 2017:  during  a follow up the dog was much improved, with a plan to use 
Metacam long term with a view to reducing it as the dogs weight reduced. 
29 December 2017: the vet noted during a vaccination visit that the dog was doing 
OK but still limping occasionally. The vet noted the x-rays had showed early 
osteoarthritis, so it might be worth starting  the dog on Metacam  more  long term, with 
repeats every six months. 
5 May 2018 the dog was taken  to the vet for the reason that his back  leg lameness 
was steadily getting worse and Ms R didnt feel the Metacam was making  much  
difference. A couple  of weeks  previously  hed really started struggling on his left hind. 
Occasionally he held the leg up and didnt want to bear much weight. The vet said on 
examination there was crepitus  (crackling noise  of bones rubbing against  each)  in 
the stifle, but it was difficult  to assess the cranial drawer. The vet queried  an 
osteoarthritis flare up against  a cranial  rupture on the left hind leg. The vet started the 
dog on a different  medication.
9 May 2018: Ms R called to say the dog was much  worse on his left hind despite 
changing medication. He was holding  his leg off the ground a lot more,  not even toe 
touching and found it difficult to get up. He was booked in for x-rays. And the vet said 
hed need surgery  if there was a cruciate rupture.  
Ref: DRN2573610311 May 2018: the x-rays  showed some joint effusion in the left stifle. The vet 
suspected partial cruciate rupture but also likely  a meniscal tear (a tear to the 
cartilage) as the dog was very lame for the degree of instability (in the cranial 
drawer). The dog was referred to a specialist vet. 
So the clinical evidence  is that the dog had osteoarthritis in 2017. Red Sands says that this, 
together with slight left hind stifle effusion from April 2017, and the other symptoms, means 
the 365 days runs from the April 2017  consultations.  In saying this, Red Sands has referred 
to the clinical notes and generic veterinary information about the link between osteoarthritis 
and cruciate ligament disease and rupture.  
But the vet has said, on three separate occasions  that the osteoarthritis in 2017 was not 
connected to the cruciate injury in 2018.  The vet has said:
15 Mary 2018  the vet told Red Sands that the claim was a new one, not a 
continuation claim. Shed reviewed her notes and the original claim was for 
suspected osteoarthritis. The symptoms  in his left hind started  on 21st April 2018 
(see clinical  note from 05/05/2018).  After consultation with a referral centre, we 
believe [the dog] is now suffering  from a cruciate  ligament  injury  in his left hind 
(separate from the OA previously diagnosed).
In an undated  letter sent to us by Ms R, the vet made the following relevant  
comments:
There was no evidence  in April 2017  that [the dog] had chronic  cruciate disease. 
Osteoarthritis is a common precursor  to cruciate  disease but not all cases  of 
osteoarthritis progress  into or are indicative of cruciate disease.  There was no 
instability in [the dogs] knee in April 2017.  If we had suggested surgery in April 2017, 
as well as being  ethically questionable,  your insurance company may have refused 
the claim as an unjustifiable  procedure. 
There is still no evidence that the damage to [the dogs] cruciate ligament is related 
to the osteoarthritis  in April 2017. Unfortunately your insurance company has used 
the common pathology of cruciate disease  as justification that they are related.
19 October 2018: our investigator phoned the vet (Ms M) and she said,  in summary,  
that the dog had arthritis in his hip (in 2017) and was limping because  of this. At this 
point she was unsure  why he was limping which is why she referred to cruciate 
disease with a question mark. She said that no signs of problems in the cruciate  were  
seen until the 2018 claim.
Ive reviewed all the evidence. Ive noted the information Red Sands has provided  about  
cruciate disease. But I find the evidence of the vet who has seen and treated the dog more 
persuasive. And the vet has said very clearly that in her professional opinion the 
osteoarthritis is not connected to the dogs cruciate  injury and claim in May 2018. Importantly 
the vet said that there was no instability in the dogs knee in April 2017.  I prefer the treating 
vets evidence in this case,  and so I intend to uphold this complaint. 
It follows from this that I find that Red Sands should  deal with the May 2018 claim for the 
lameness caused  by cruciate injury as a new, separate  condition  from the April 2017 
lameness caused  by osteoarthritis in the hip. This means I intend  to require Red Sands to 
pay the May 2018  claim, to consider  any additional  related claim that Ms R makes  for her 
dogs further treatment and surgery for the cruciate  injury and to remove the 2017  stifle 
Ref: DRN25736104exclusion, as set out below. Ms R might need to complete  a new claim form for Red Sands, 
and send it the remaining veterinary history, if shes not already done  so.
I understand Ms R has taken a payment plan to cover the treatment costs. I invite her to 
send evidence of this and, if shes had to pay interest on that plan, then I propose to require 
Red Sands  to pay her the equivalent  amount of interest.  I think  Ms R has been  caused 
distress and inconvenience in not having received the benefits of the policy she took out to 
protect her in the event of large vets bills. Shes  explained she was left in some financial 
difficulty. I think Red Sands should pay her some compensation  for distress  and 
[inconvenience] and I assess  £200 to be a fair and reasonable amount.
Neither Red Sands nor Ms R has sent any more evidence or comments for me to consider  
before reaching  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been given  any more evidence or comments to consider. So I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I reached in my provisional decision,  and which  Ive set out in 
full above. For the reasons Ive given  I confirm those findings here. I uphold this complaint, 
and I require Red Sands  to take the action set out in the my final decision section below.  
Ms R hasnt sent me evidence of any interest  shes had to pay on the payment plan. So Ive 
not awarded any amount for interest  on that payment plan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision I uphold this complaint. Within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms R accepts my final decision I order  Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Ms Rs May 2018 claim, subject to the policy limit, excess  and co-payment; and
consider and pay Ms Rs claim for the remaining treatment costs that her dog 
received for the cruciate ligament injury  within 365 days  of 21 April 2018, subject to 
the policy terms (but not the stifles  exclusion), limit, excess  and co-payment. The 
date of 21 April 2018 applies because its the date quoted by the vet, being  two 
weeks before the 5 May 2018 vet consultation;  and 
pay Ms R £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
remove the policy exclusion for claims with respect to both stifles  that it added  with 
effect of 1 June  2017. In saying this Red Sands  is entitled to add a new policy 
exclusion for claims relating to both stifles from the 1 June 2018 policy renewal date 
(because this was after the 2018  claim was received and it is an time-limited  policy), 
but it cant rely on this exclusion  to turn down  a claim  with respect of the stifles within 
365 days of 21 April 2018.  
If Red Sands  pays the total compensation more than 28 days  after we tell it Ms R accepts 
my final decision then it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision  until the date of payment at 8% per year simple.
Ref: DRN25736105Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms R how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms R a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2573610