K820x#14Complaint
Miss M is unhappy with her dealings with Barclays Bank UK PLC after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
On 13 April, 23 May and 29 June  2017  Miss M authorised three  online payments  to two 
separate bank  accounts, totalling £3,200, to who she believed was a travel agent  for some 
airline tickets. She contacted Barclays on 17 July 2017 to confirm shed been the victim of a 
scam after the tickets  didnt arrive. 
Barclays contacted  the beneficiary banks (the banks used by the scammer) on 18 July 2017 
to try and recover Miss Ms funds. Unfortunately, both banks  responded to advise no funds 
remained. Barclays informed Miss M that it was unable to do anything further to recover the 
funds.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss M complained to us. Our adjudicator didnt  
recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think  Barclays  ought to have done  more 
to identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances.  And they felt Barclays  
had done enough to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary banks. 
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN20961202And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss M when she transferred payments of £300, £2,000 and £900 over the course of 
two months, or whether  it should have done  more than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Miss M lost this money.  But, having looked  at the circumstances, I 
do think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing each  transfer to leave  Miss Ms 
account. And I think it took appropriate steps  to try and recover the funds from the 
beneficiary banks. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse Miss M for the money she lost. Ill 
explain why in more  detail.
Miss M and Barclays agree that Miss M authorised the payments herself. Because  of this, 
Barclays had an obligation  to follow Miss Ms instructions. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfers. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about the payments in terms 
of either  their value  or type that ought to have alerted Barclays to the scam. So, I think  the 
fact that Barclays systems  didnt  flag the payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Miss M contacted Barclays on 17 July 2017  when she became aware that shed been  the 
victim of a scam  nearly three weeks after authorising the last payment. Barclays raised a 
scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary banks  the next day to request a return  of the 
funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary banks confirmed that no funds remained.  Typically, 
scammers will withdraw funds almost immediately after receiving them, and the beneficiary  
banks have provided evidence to show none  of Miss Ms fund remained when the scam 
complaint was raised.
Ref: DRN20961203Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
accounts werent the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access  to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary banks to try and retrieve the money was all 
Barclays could do to help Miss M at that stage.
While I appreciate Miss M has been the unfortunate victim of a scam,  I think Barclays  
decision not to refund her in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because  it followed Miss Ms instructions to make the payment and I havent  seen  
any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. And I think it took appropriate steps  to try and 
recover the funds  once it was notified  of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2096120