K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  about a number of loans he took out through  a company  called  Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading as Sunny. Mr W says he was lent to irresponsibly and 
the loans caused him financial problems.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2020,  comprehensively 
setting out why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And  I asked both parties to 
provide any further  submissions or information  to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint or direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited to pay Mr W any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27443882copy  provisional  decision
Ive looked at all the relevant  information about  this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering departing substantially from the view of our adjudicator. Because of this, Im going  to 
issue a provisional  decision.  
Ill look at any more  comments or evidence  I get about this complaint by 24 February 2020. But unless 
these change  my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.  So the consumer 
cant be identified, Ill call him Mr W.
complaint
Mr W complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Elevate  Credit 
International Limited, trading  as Sunny. Mr W says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans  
caused him financial  problems.
background
We now know  that Mr W took out 4 loans from Sunny  between December 2017  and February 2018. 
Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ws borrowing  with Sunny, based on the information  it provided  to us. 
It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision.  
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should  be partially upheld; 
for loan number  4 only. Sunny doesnt agree so the complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  Ive 
followed this approach when  thinking about Mr Ws complaint.
Having done this Im afraid I dont currently think we should  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr W could repay  the 
loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have  taken into account  a range  
of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However,  certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should have 
fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
Ref: DRN27443883the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  Ive carefully considered all of these things and 
what they mean for Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks  before agreeing  to lend to Mr W. Ive 
thought about this and Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of lending history to him with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which  Sunny  should reasonably have  seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. Ive considered  whether, at some point,  Sunny should  have 
realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans.
With this information, and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending  
relationship, I think the particular checks which Sunny most likely carried  out appear to have been 
proportionate for loan numbers  1, 2 and 3. I think the levels of likely  checks, together with the income 
and expenditure details provided by Mr W himself, would  have made these 3 loans appear affordable 
for him. 
I have taken a careful note that the pattern  of Mr Ws borrowing was such  that he took these 3 loans  
out in relatively quick succession and that for loans  2 and 3, these were taken out whilst  still having 
the existing loans outstanding. Nevertheless, all 3 loans were for moderate amounts and they 
decreased in value sequentially each time.  And as they were 6 month instalment loans, the 
repayments for each were relatively  low and spread out over that period. All appear to have been  well 
within Mr Ws declared ability to repay.
For loan number 4, our adjudicator thought Sunny ought not to have  lent Mr W this money. But I dont 
really see any difference in the lending  pattern  at this point. The lending  relationship was still in the 
early stages and this 4th loan reduced in size again, to only £50 payable over 6 months.  Mr W 
declared his take-home pay as £1,400 per month and given his declared outgoings, loan 4 also 
seems to me to be well within his capabilities. It didnt add substantially to his overall Sunny 
repayments.
I think  if Mr W had sought another loan after this point, this would have changed  the approach Sunny 
ought to have  taken as regards to more  thoroughly investigating his financial affairs. But at the loan 4 
stage, Mr W was still repaying all his Sunny  borrowing  correctly and as agreed. We know later that 
this changed, but at that particular point,  I dont think Sunny would have seen anything that would 
have prevented it from lending the £50 for loan 4.
In short, I dont think  the point had yet arrived  where I would have expected Sunny  to carry  out much 
more substantial financial checking such as fully reviewing his bank statements or more detailed 
credit checks.  I think  it was reasonable in this case for Sunny to have relied on the information  it most  
likely had at the time to decide whether to lend to Mr W on all 4 occasions. Im afraid that means Im 
not intending to uphold his complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend uphold this complaint or direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr W any compensation.
Ill look at any further information either party wants to send in before making my final decision after 
24 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27443884Appendix
Loan Taken  Out Repaid Instalments Amount Monthly Repayment Amount
1 22/12/2017 05/10/2018 6 £200.00 £51.21
2 06/01/2018 05/10/2018 6 £150.00 £100.58
3 19/01/2018 05/10/2018 6 £100.00 £130.73
4 06/02/2018 05/10/2018 6 £50.00 £147.04
Ref: DRN2744388