K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with his home contents insurer Tesco Underwriting Limited. It accepted 
his claim made for items  stolen during a burglary and offered to make settlement for most 
of them  with the exception of a Rolex watch. It then withdrew that offer.
background
Mr H was burgled. His desk was stolen along  with all of its contents. Tesco appointed a 
loss adjuster to assess  and handle the claim.  The loss adjuster visited  Mr H, interviewed 
him and carried out various enquiries.  The loss adjuster reported  that there had been  a 
genuine loss but noted that there was little, if any, substantiation for the items claimed for. It 
had particular concerns regarding  a Rolex watch. The watch was specified  on the policy  as 
being worth  £5,700.
Around four months after the claim was made,  having considered  the matter, the loss 
adjuster said to Tesco that it felt the claim, barring the Rolex, should  be progressed. Tesco 
agreed. The loss adjuster wrote to Mr H and offered to settle  for all of the claimed for items 
with the exception of the watch. The total offer, if Mr H wanted to take cash,  after the £350  
policy excess was deducted, was £2,701.38. But Tesco also said that, for some items, Mr 
H had the option of it providing  replacements  or vouchers.
The next day Tesco reconsidered and told Mr H that it was withdrawing the offer.  It noted 
that as none of the claim had been  substantiated it didnt think it could fairly offer settlement  
for any of it, not whilst using that very reason to refuse to make  any settlement for the 
Rolex. Mr H complained to us.
Our investigator considered the matter  and his view on what should happen did change  
over time. But his final position, having  seen evidence that Mr H had recently provided that 
showed he owned a Rolex box, was that Tesco should pay the part of the claim for the
watch and reassess the rest of it for the other items.  He also felt it should pay 
£400 compensation.
Tesco didnt  agree this was fair. Particularly in respect of the watch it wasnt  satisfied 
that Mr H had shown  sufficient evidence to satisfy it that hed owned it. It also felt £400 
compensation was unreasonable. 
I considered the complaint and felt Tesco should  settle for items  other  than the watch 
and pay £250  compensation.  Both parties replied. My provisional findings, the parties 
responses and my final findings  are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Provisionally I said:
It is quite  often the case that policyholders cant evidence everything owned.  And most 
insurers accept, to an extent, that every day, low cost items may well be owned  but with 
little proof  to show for them.  And where a genuine loss is accepted  to have occurred, which 
involves the loss of supporting evidence,  Id expect an insurer to take a common  sense 
Ref: DRN26035762approach when looking to settle  the claim.  What  that means in reality may differ  in every 
case depending  on the circumstances.
Here I can see that the loss adjusters  spent  a lot of time considering the claim. They  
accepted that a genuine  loss had occurred but were aware of a general lack of proof to 
show any of the items  were owned.  But the only item they were concerned about was the 
Rolex and extensive  investigations into this item were undertaken. They  didnt at any stage 
raise any question or issue with the lack of substantiation for the other items. Nor did Tesco.  
And when  the loss adjuster recommended progressing the claim for everything but the 
Rolex, Tesco agreed.
Tesco says it only revoked the offer having received technical advice about  the claim.  
I appreciate that but the advice that I understand Tesco was given was based on a verbal  
discussion about the claim. As Tesco is aware,  given  the caveats that advice comes with, 
opinions can differ when the full picture (from both sides) and all the available  evidence  is 
fully considered.
But Tesco also now says it does have general  concerns about the claim as whole. Not least 
because it is aware  of another theft claim Mr H has made to another  insurer for the same 
amount of money.  Whilst I understand why Tesco may now have concerns, its adjuster had 
plenty of time to investigate all of that before it decided the claim could be progressed and 
Tesco agreed to that. And Tescos concerns about the other claim, whilst understandable, 
dont show Mr Hs claim to it was anything other  than genuine. 
My provisional findings continued:
So I think Tescos intention was to offer reasonable settlement for what  it had accepted was
a genuine loss, and that Mr H, through no fault of his own couldnt properly substantiate. 
And had the complaint  been made,  at that stage, just in respect of Tesco refusing to settle  
for the watch,  I think Id likely  have  said it had acted fairly and reasonably.
I think it was always fair for Tesco to refuse  settlement for the Rolex. This item was 
different to the rest, not least because it was worth  far more.  But also because  it was an 
item that Id expect a policyholder to be able to show they owned. I accept what  Tescos 
expert says about  the photo  Mr H provided  the watch in shot isnt clear  enough  to 
validate what it is and it isnt possible to date the photo. I know Mr H has since  provided a 
Rolex box  but I again accept Tescos concerns in this respect. Mr H has owned more 
than one Rolex so this box doesnt support the position that he owned the watch currently 
claimed for.
Mr H said he could accept my reasoning  regarding the box. But he said the picture does 
clearly show a Rolex. Hes shown the pictures to others and they agree. I appreciate 
Mr Hs opinion, but Tescos experts didnt  feel they could be sure the watch  was a Rolex. 
And from my own experience Im aware that there are some very good  look-a-like  
watches out there. So I can understand why Tescos expert didnt feel able to validate  the 
watch from the photo. And Mr H hasnt  provided any expert opinion  to counter that.
Mr H also said that the photo can be dated  as the birth date of the baby is known and her 
age (in the photo) can then be gauged.  I appreciate that Mr H feels  strongly about this but 
Im not convinced that being told a babys  date of birth and then gauging their age in a 
photo is a valid method  of determining the date the photo was taken. 
Ref: DRN26035763I know Mr H says all his proof of ownership  for the watch  was in the desk. But for an 
expensive item like a Rolex Id expect some  proof  other than receipts or one printed photo  
to be available. For example, other photos,  maybe taken by friends and family. From the 
photo he did provide Mr H seems to have worn the watch quite regularly, which  suggests  
its likely  that others  would have photos  with him in wearing the watch. And these  wouldnt  
have been in the desk and might provide better  evidential quality than the photo Mr H 
provided. So evidence  Id reasonably expect to be available  isnt. 
Taking all this together I remain satisfied that Tescos concerns about the watch were fair 
and reasonable.  It follows  that I find the same  regarding it refusal to offer settlement for it.
My provisional findings concluded:
Having looked at everything I think Tesco should pay Mr H £2,701.38 being  the initial 
settlement offer,  plus interest* from the date of the offer, 5 February 2018 until settlement 
is made. Or, if Mr H wants it to, provide replacement items  and/or vouchers as also 
previously offered. Im not going  to require Tesco to do anything regarding  the Rolex.
I think this has been stressful for Mr H. It was clearly  frustrating for him when Tesco 
unreasonably withdrew  its offer of settlement. I think it should pay him £250 
compensation.
Whilst Ive considered the responses made by both parties, Im still of the view that the fair 
and reasonable settlement for this claim and complaint  is that which I set out provisionally 
and above. Tesco has raised an issue regarding payment  of any award I make, specifically  
regarding who should benefit from that payment.  That will be up to Tesco to decide and it 
may need to take legal advice in that respect as to what  its liabilities are. All I can say is that 
if Mr H accepts my decision  within the deadline  set then Tesco  will be bound to comply  with 
my award. 
my final decision
Im minded  to uphold this complaint. I intend  to require  Tesco  Underwriting Limited to:
 Pay £2,701.38  in settlement of the claim, plus interest*  from 5 February 2018 until 
settlement is made; or
 Pay the sums offered for the items  Mr H wants to be settled in cash and provide 
replacement items  or vouchers for the remaining items, as per the previous offer and as 
requested by Mr H. For any cash amount paid add interest* as above.
 Pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Tesco  
Underwriting Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest  due, it 
Ref: DRN26035764should state how much its taken off. It should also provide a certificate  showing this if one is asked for, so any tax can be 
reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2603576