K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) 
has used the compensation it offered to settle  a complaint about mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr W took out two loans with Canada Square. With each loan he took out a PPI policy. The 
premium for each policy was added  to the amount of Mr Ws loans, so he paid interest on 
the premiums charged.
In November 2006 Mr W stopped making payments to his second loan and Canada Square  
froze the account. In October  2009 Canada Square  sold the debt that remained outstanding  
of £10,334.94 to a third party. 
In 2019 Mr W complained to Canada Square  that he was mis-sold PPI and it upheld his 
complaint. It calculated the compensation due for both policies was £6,181.23  (before  tax). 
Canada Square  sent Mr W a cheque for £3,644.55  (after tax) but said it would  pay £2,117.42 
to the third party that owned the debt. It said it needed to do this because  there  was still an 
element of PPI left in the debt that was sold and the third party  had confirmed the debt 
remained unpaid.
Mr W hasnt said that the figures Canada  Square  worked out are wrong but he thinks  the 
debt to the third party should be statute barred and he should be paid the full compensation 
directly.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that the way Mr W had been 
paid was fair. Mr W disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Canada  Square  agreed PPI had been  mis-sold  to Mr W, I dont need to look into the sale.  
What I do need  to consider is whether what Canada Square has done  with the 
compensation is fair.
When we think a business has mis-sold PPI we normally tell it to put the consumer as far as 
possible in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt been sold PPI. We say a business 
should pay back to the consumer what they paid for PPI (the premium cost and extra interest  
paid), plus a further  8% per year simple  interest  on everything the consumer paid from when 
they paid it until they get it back.
Mr W took out his first loan with PPI in October  2003 and the second  loan and PPI policy  in 
September 2004. The second loan refinanced the first loan.  The premium for each  policy 
was added to the amounts Mr W borrowed,  so he paid interest on the premiums  charged 
whilst making  his repayments. .
In November 2006 Mr W stopped making payments to his second loan and a default  notice  
was issued in January  2007. In March  2007 Mr W contacted Canada Square  and said he 
Ref: DRN24971632had relocated and could not receive  post. Canada Square suspended the account, meaning 
the interest being  charged was frozen so the debt owing no longer increased.  Also the PPI 
was cancelled and a partial rebate of the PPI premium was removed from the unpaid 
balance. In October 2009 Canada Square  sold the outstanding debt of £10,334.94  to a third 
party. But as with loan one some of the PPI still remained  in the outstanding balance.
Mr W borrowed more  for his loan because he took out a PPI policy.  But when he fell behind 
on his repayments,  he stopped paying  back the money he borrowed for the PPI policy as 
well as his loan. And he also didnt pay back the monthly interest he was being  charged on 
the PPI, up until the interest was frozen.  So when the debt was sold to the third party, some 
of this debt was made up of the upfront cost he was charged for his PPI policy  and PPI 
interest he didnt pay back.
The £2,117.42 that Canada Square paid to the third party was the cost of PPI that remained 
part of the loan debt when  it was sold on in October 2009. So thats  money Mr W borrowed 
for PPI, but never paid back. So I think its fair for Canada Square  to use the compensation 
in this way, otherwise Mr W would be getting a refund for the cost of PPI that he didnt 
actually pay.
Mr W hasnt disputed he defaulted on payment to the loan or provided any evidence  to show 
he ever repaid the debt in full after it was sold to the third party. Mr W says the debt that was 
sold to the third party is statute barred as it is more than six years since any 
acknowledgement at all was made about  the debt. So he thinks  the PPI compensation 
should not be paid to reduce that debt with the third party.  
It may well be the case that the third party can no longer legally  chase Mr W for the debt. But 
the debt still remains  unpaid and as part of it was for the PPI costs  it would not be fair to pay 
Mr W the cost of the PPI that remains in the debt as he never paid it. So the right thing to do 
is adjust the debt that was unpaid by the amount that was for PPI, leaving the debt only the 
amount being  what Mr W borrowed for his own use and didnt repay.
Ive also thought about the position Mr W was likely to have been in if hed taken his loan 
without PPI. When he fell into arrears and his debt was sold on in 2009  he owed £10,334.94, 
£2,117.42 of this was due to PPI. So, around  £8,000 remained of the loan debt, after the PPI 
was fully removed.  As Mr W still had a large amount unpaid  that hed borrowed for his own 
use, its likely hed have  still fallen into arrears if hed never bought the PPI. So his debt 
would have still been sold on, but it would have been for a lower amount. This is the position 
Canada Square  has put Mr W in now by reducing  the debt he never paid to the amount  
without PPI and I think  thats  fair.
Taking all of this into account,  I think Canada Square has worked out the amount of 
compensation in the way Id expect  it to. And Mr W isnt saying the amount is wrong  hes 
saying he shouldve been paid all of the compensation. I dont agree as I think adjusting 
Mr Ws debt to what it would have been without the PPI is the fair approach. The remainder 
of the PPI compensation has been paid to Mr W directly, which is also fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think what Canada  Square Operations Limited has 
calculated as compensation for the mis-sold  PPI policies, and how it has paid that 
compensation is fair. So I am not telling it to do anything different.
Ref: DRN24971633Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2497163