K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  by Lloyds Bank PLC.
background
Mr M took out a mortgage in November 1992 and at the same time he purchased a PPI 
policy. The policy  covered  him in the event that he wasnt working  because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £6.60 each month and in the event of a 
successful claim, it wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagrees,  so his 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr Ms 
case. And, having  done so, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The mortgage and the PPI were  taken out more than 26 years ago and the mortgage  was 
redeemed in March  2008. So unsurprisingly neither party has been able to provide much  
information about the sale and how it took place. And in these situations, I have to look at 
what I think is more likely  to have happened. 
I dont doubt that Mr M has given  his honest  recollections of the sale  he told us the PPI 
was compulsory  but I have  to accept that over a quarter of a century  memories  can and do 
fade. And I just dont  have  any evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policy  wasnt 
optional  that Mr M didnt  have  a choice in taking it out. So with the very limited information I 
have I cant fairly say that Mr M wasnt aware  of the optional nature of the PPI or that he 
didnt have a choice about taking  it.
Its unclear whether or not Mr M was advised to purchase the policy. But ultimately  I dont 
think this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because Im 
satisfied that the policy  was suitable  for Mr M taking into account the policy  benefits, cost of 
cover and his broader financial circumstances at that time. And I dont think its likely that he 
wouldve acted differently; and not taken out the policy, if hed been  better  advised  and 
informed.
I say this because:
The policy covered  Mr M and given his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and 
taking account  of the policy conditions),  I am satisfied  he was eligible for the cover.
His circumstances do not suggest that he wouldve been  affected by any of the 
significant limitations  or exclusions  of the cover, such  as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements. He told us he was employed and in 
good health. So he could expect to benefit  from the full extent of the cover provided  by 
this policy.
Ref: DRN26313722Whilst Mr H received  some occupational  benefits; three months  full sick pay, this does 
not automatically mean  that the policy was unsuitable.  This is because if he were 
unable to work,  the PPI was intended  to remove the additional pressure of maintaining 
mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time. The mortgage was 
secured against his property  and so the consequences  of him not being able to keep 
up payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover he 
bought was payable for up to 12 months and this wouldve been in addition to any other 
means he may have had in place at the time. 
So although  I cant say why Mr M decided to buy this policy, I dont think  if a 
recommendation were  given that it was unreasonable. I think  the policy was suitable.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the Lloyds sales adviser. The policy provided  a monthly benefit at a cost of around  £7 
per month. And it seems to me that someone  in his circumstances  might  have  concluded 
that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And in the event that he 
no longer wanted  to have the benefit of the cover,  Mr M couldve cancelled  the policy at any 
time without  penalty.
Summary
So, having  considered all the evidence  carefully,  although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont  think  he would have decided against  taking 
it out if he had been  better  informed. It seems more  likely to me that he had some  interest in 
protecting his mortgage repayments  and chose to go ahead with the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2631372