K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has cancelled  his business
overdraft facility.
Background
Mr O says hes had an overdraft on his business bank account for a number of years.  Hes
unhappy that RBS told him in February  2019 that it wont be extending  this overdraft. He
said he was told at the end of 2018  that RBS would contact him to discuss the renewal of the
facility, but he says this didnt  happen.
He said he was surprised  the overdraft facility  was withdrawn this year, because hed been
given similar messages  by RBS in previous years, but the overdraft had always  continued.
He said that the withdrawal of the facility  will cause severe financial hardship for his
business.
RBS said that it had contacted Mr O in November 2018 as it was concerned that he would
be unable to repay the overdraft. It followed this up in February 2019  it says that it
removed the overdraft in February  2019 because Mr O didnt reply. It says it also transferred
the account to its specialised business management team.
One of our investigators  looked into his complaint. She felt that RBS had communicated
appropriately with Mr O before withdrawing his overdraft. But she felt that RBS should've
made a clear  decision whether or not the overdraft was a suitable facility for Mr O, and
whether or not it was prepared  to continue to offer him an overdraft.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators findings. He says that his financial situation is no
different to what it was when he first took out the overdraft.  He says that RBS shouldnt  be
able to demand immediate repayment  of a debt. And he says it didnt tell him it had concerns
about his ability to repay the overdraft.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020.  My findings were  as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im currently  minded not to uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr O feels that RBS should either admit it should never  have given him an overdraft, and 
write off the debt:  or if it didnt make a mistake, he thinks he should be allowed to keep the 
overdraft.
Ive considered whether or not RBS acted  fairly  when it cancelled  Mr Os business  
overdraft. The terms of the overdraft explain that the facility has an expiry  date and there is 
an annual renewal process. The overdraft terms say:
Renewal of Facility
At any time during the 30 days  prior to the Expiry Date you may request (or we may 
offer) to renew the Facility  for a further  period of up to 365 days, subject  to us 
undertaking a full credit assessment, provision by us of further documentation and, 
where required by us, payment by you of a further arrangement fee. If the Facility is 
Ref: DRN21882642not renewed before the Expiry Date any borrowing outstanding under the Facility 
will become  repayable on demand and the Facility may be unconditionally 
cancelled by us at any time.
Im satisfied that the terms are clear, and that the overdraft was always subject to review.  
And its clear  that, like most overdrafts, the amount  owed is repayable  on demand.  The 
decision whether  or not to continue to lend is a commercial decision  I cant review that 
decision, but I can consider if RBS reached its decision properly.
I can see that it attempted to contact Mr O on several occasions  by phone and by email. 
On 9 November  2018 it wrote  to Mr O at his home address, advising him that it wanted to 
speak to him about the overdraft. It also told him that it may need  to refer the matter  to its 
Specialised Business Management  Team if he failed to respond. So its no surprise that it 
did so when he failed  to contact RBS.
I can see that RBS told Mr O that it was considering withdrawing his overdraft  facility  on 
several occasions over a number of years. And I can understand why he may have 
thought that it would never happen.  But I take a different  view from our investigator. I think  
RBS comments shouldve alerted him that he was at risk of losing his overdraft. Hes 
explained what a catastrophic impact that would have on his business. So I think  he 
shouldve taken this up with the bank.  And given the serious  consequences,  he couldve 
investigated other sources of funding.
So I dont  think that it was unreasonable for RBS to withdraw the overdraft facility. And its 
entitled to recover  the funds immediately.  But it has confirmed  to me that it is willing
discuss a payment plan with Mr O, and Id encourage him to take this up with RBS.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr O or RBS responded to my provisional  decision. As I havent been provided with 
any new evidence for me to consider,  Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive 
set out before.
I encourage Mr O, if he hasnt already done  so, to contact RBS to arrange a payment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2188264