K821x#15Complaint
G, a partnership now in dissolution, complains  in summary  that Clydesdale  Bank PLC 
added a hidden  margin to the interest  rate on its Tailored Business  Loan.  Mr  L primarily 
represents the dissolved partnership in bringing this complaint, together  with their 
independent representative, Mr M.
Preliminary matters
I have so far issued two provisional decisions on this complaint  one on 8 March 2019,  and 
a second on 7 August 2019.  Although the proposed  outcome was similar in both instances,  
because both parties provided me with a significant  amount of additional material in 
response to my first provisional decision I considered it appropriate to set out my further 
conclusions again  on a provisional basis  to allow the parties an additional  opportunity to 
provide any further  submissions prior to my finally determining the complaint.
In addition, G had previously brought a complaint about its Tailored Business loan to us.  
Following our adjudicators initial assessment in 2014, most of the issues the partnership 
had raised were settled  between the parties   but not the question  of the alleged hidden  
margin in the interest  rate.  Another ombudsman issued a final decision about  that in April 
2015, when she did not uphold the complaint about  the interest rate.  Whilst that would 
normally have been the end of our involvement, G came  back  to us in 2018 asking us to look 
again at the interest rate.  Collectively, the partnership  and the bank presented enough 
potentially relevant new evidence for us to determine that we could do so.  Moreover, the 
question of the 2014 settlement is something which G considers should form part of my 
analysis and conclusions  here  I will return to that later. 
To make it easier to follow the background, my analysis  of the evidence, and my conclusions 
I consider it most appropriate to set everything out in this single narrative document  rather  
than attaching my earlier provisional decisions to this final decision.
Introductory background
Mr L had two business  F, a building company, and G, a property-owning partnership.  In  
2004, G bought a mixed-use property which F refurbished.  Both  businesses  then banked 
with another bank, which had lent to G on a variable  rate loan to help it buy the property.
Mr L subsequently entered  into discussions with Clydesdale about transferring Fs and Gs 
business accounts to it, including  Gs loan.   Early in 2008, G put together a business plan for 
a new loan and, in March 2008,  the partnership signed and returned a facility acceptance 
letter for a 15-year Clydesdale Tailored Business loan for £506,000,  with the rate of interest  
fixed for the first 10 years.
After an exchange  of emails between G, Mr C (at the time, a Clydesdale Partner  Business 
Banking) and a manager from the banks  Treasury Solutions team,  an initial  10-year fixed 
interest rate of 7.19%  was agreed  for the new loan.  This comprised an underlying 
reference, or fixed, rate of 5.67%, a lending margin of 1.5%,  and an additional funding cost 
charge of 0.02%.  This agreement was made during  a phone call between  Mr L and the 
Treasury Solutions manager on 2 May 2008.  (In  its later submissions, G questioned my use 
in both provisional decisions of the term reference rate for the underlying fixed rate.  
However, I consider  that it is a suitable term to use to identify the rate to which  the 1.5% 
margin and 0.02% funding cost were  added, not least to avoid any possible confusion  with 
Ref: DRN21583862any other use of the term fixed  rate.  I will nevertheless refer back  to this point later in this 
final decision.)
G subsequently complained to Clydesdale about its loan.  The  partnership  said,  in summary, 
that Clydesdale had sold an inappropriate and sophisticated product to an unsophisticated 
client.  But the bank  did not uphold the complaint, and in early  2014 G brought it to us.  As it 
related to the interest rate, Gs position  was that  at the outset  it had understood the rate 
would be LIBOR, plus a margin  of 1.5%,  plus the additional funding  costs of 0.02%.  
However, the partnership  had since been  led to believe  that the bank had incorporated a 
hidden margin of around 0.5% in the reference  rate.  In  other  words,  the reference  rate of 
5.67% agreed  on the phone had, in Gs view, been improperly inflated  and it was as a 
result paying, in practice, a margin of around 2% above LIBOR,  rather than 1.5%.   This  was 
because its own enquiries suggested that 1 month LIBOR, which it considered  was the 
relevant benchmark,  was around 5.20% in May 2008.
The previous  ombudsman had said that G hadnt  needed to accept  the interest rate, and that 
if it hadnt been happy it could have approached another lender.  She added that banks are 
entitled to make a profit  when  lending  money and, because the partnership had considered 
and accepted the rate, she didnt  uphold the complaint.
G did not accept  that decision and, in early 2018, Mr L came back to us asking us to look at 
the issue again.  He said he had since amassed a range of new evidence  some of which 
had come from other Clydesdale borrowers  and he felt that if this evidence  had been 
available at the time of the earlier complaint we would have come to a different conclusion.
After a lengthy exchange of correspondence,  which included the bank providing us with 
further information about the interest  rate, I accepted that there  was enough  to say it would 
be right for us to look again at that issue.  Whilst the bank expressed disappointment at that 
decision  on the basis that it did not consider  Gs complaint had any fresh  merit  it agreed 
to co-operate with a further  investigation.  The parties also accepted  that, given my 
involvement so far during  2018, it would make practical sense for me to consider and review 
the merits of the issue.
My first provisional decision
I started  by setting out that Gs central contention was that Clydesdale had misrepresented  
how the interest rate on its Tailored Business Loan  would be calculated and that, in the 
process, the bank had hidden  an extra margin of around 0.5% in the reference rate.   The 
partnership was also saying, in summary, that  in discussions before the loan was taken out 
 the banks Mr C had told Mr L that, instead of it being linked to Bank of England base  rate, 
the new loan would  be based on LIBOR.  Mr L explained he took from this that the interest  
rate on the loan would  be the relevant LIBOR rate plus the agreed  margin.
So the first key question  I believed  I needed to address  was this: had Clydesdale  
misrepresented to G (prior to it accepting  the interest rate on its Tailored Business Loan) the 
way the reference rate was calculated, such that G was improperly induced into entering 
into the contract  and, in doing so, it had relied on any misrepresentation to its detriment?  
Gs position was that it was the banks Mr C who had first talked about LIBOR  (indeed, Mr L 
said he had never  heard  of it before), and that Mr C confirmed to him  many times   that 
the fixed  rate Tailored Business Loan was LIBOR  on the day plus a pre-agreed margin  on 
top.  But Clydesdales position was that Mr C did not give Mr L any such indication,  and that 
all discussions about the interest rate were with its Treasury Solutions  manager.
Ref: DRN21583863However, prior to reaching a view on this I felt I needed to address the linked issues  about 
Mr Cs job at the time, and who was Gs relationship  manager (primarily, Mr C, or a Mr R, 
before Ms M took over).   This was because Mr L saw what  he considered to be the banks 
inaccurate explanations about  this as indicative of it seeking to misrepresent  things  more  
generally.  But on looking into this I concluded that G and the bank were  arguably more 
aligned than they might  have  thought.  I felt they were describing  the same  broad set of 
circumstances (with  Mr C retaining an involvement  with G after the Tailored Business Loan  
had been set up, and with Mr R being   in the banks systems, at least   Gs relationship 
manager, albeit  for a relatively short period).  So, on this point I did not conclude  that 
Clydesdale had sought to mislead  in the way Mr L had suggested.
Returning to the question  of how Clydesdale had represented to G the way the reference 
rate would be calculated,  I identified the conflicting  positions of both parties  which were, in 
summary:
Clydesdale
-It was only for the Treasury Solutions  manager  to discuss and agree a fixed  rate.
-LIBOR was in the news at the time, so it may well have come  up in discussions around  
variable rate facilities.
-Its facility letter  was clear  it only showed variable rate borrowing as being directly 
linked to LIBOR.
-It found it difficult to accept that Mr L was so clear about discussions that had taken 
place so long ago.
G
-Clydesdale had presented the rate (through  Mr C) as LIBOR  plus a margin.   
-Mr C had a closer  involvement in setting  the rate  including  the margin  than the bank 
was saying, and Mr L provided several messages to support that view.
My initial thought was that it would be helpful if Clydesdale could explain how the reference  
rate for Gs Tailored Business Loan had been calculated  because further clarity about that 
might quickly  clear  up any possible  misunderstanding.  But,  in response  to my request, the 
bank was reluctant  to do so  saying (amongst  other  things) that it had nothing further to add 
and that it was not prepared to disclose anything more about its commercial  discretion used 
in the setting of the rate.
However, after pursuing the point with Clydesdale it did provide  me with an explanation  
which it subsequently agreed could be treated as open evidence.  In  summary, the bank 
said it took a number of factors  into account in determining the reference rate  which  
included the amount of the loan,  its maturity term, its repayment profile, and market  
conditions.  But Clydesdale also said that its Treasury Solutions  team  usually added  around 
50 basis points (i.e., 0.5%) to what it would in later submissions explain was a 10-year 
market-based fixed rate in order to arrive at the reference rate for Tailored  Business  Loans.  
The bank added  that, in Gs case the number of basis points added was in line with the 
Ref: DRN21583864above and the cumulative effect  of these elements resulted in the Bank offering a fixed  rate 
of 5.67%...
It was, therefore, apparent that G was right to have said that Clydesdale had  after applying  
all other factors to reach a market-based fixed rate  added  around 0.5% by way of what the 
bank described  as an additional income  element (and what  G described as a hidden 
margin) when it determined the reference  rate of 5.67%  for Gs Tailored Business  Loan.
However, I also concluded that G was not right to say that the rate was in fact LIBOR plus a 
margin of 1.5%. Indeed  Gs complaint,  in part, is that Clydesdale  misrepresented the 
reference rate as reflecting a LIBOR benchmark.  I noted that not only does a 10 year 
LIBOR rate not exist,  but in setting  a fixed rate over a term such as 10 years it would be 
unusual for a lender to base the fixed repayments a borrower would make just on one single 
(and much shorter-dated) variable benchmark  such as, for example, 1 month LIBOR.   So 
I was prepared to accept that Clydesdale had calculated reference  rates in the way it had 
described.  
But I then went on to consider what the bank had actually represented to Mr L about this, 
and what he might have  understood from what it had said and provided to him.  This was 
because I needed  to reach a view about whether or not Clydesdale  had misled  Mr L, such  
that the bank might  have induced G into taking out the loan on the terms it did when it would 
not otherwise  have  done so.
Having carefully considered the extensive evidence Mr L had provided  some of which  
related to other Clydesdale  Tailored Business Loan borrowers as well as Gs own dealings 
with the bank  I concluded, in summary,  that I considered it likely that Mr L had come away 
from his discussions with Mr C thinking  that the reference rate was to have had a closer, 
and more direct, correlation with a LIBOR benchmark than it actually did.  I reached this view 
based, in part, on what I considered it likely the banks  Mr C might  have  said, and also 
because I found  that some  of the documents Mr L had provided to us could have been 
misinterpreted to that effect (not just by borrowers but also by the banks own staff).
Having reached  that conclusion  I then considered  two further issues:
-what would G otherwise have done?; and
-the impact all this had had on Mr L and Mrs L since they first started  to investigate the 
constituent elements  of the interest  rate, including during our own enquiries.
On the first issue, I outlined that the appropriate remedy  was not to treat any 
misrepresentation (and any consequent  misunderstanding)  as if the representation had been 
correct, but instead  to consider what would  have happened if G had known the true position.   
I found, in summary:
-Gs business plan from January 2008  had said that the partnership  was looking for a 
fixed rate loan;
-Gs new Tailored Business Loan was for more  than it owed  on its existing loan to its then 
bank, because it wanted to settle  Fs outstanding account of about £66,000;
 
Ref: DRN21583865-by the time G had accepted its fixed rate Tailored Business Loan, the Bank of England  
base rate had started to reduce such that the overall fixed  rate G agreed to pay to 
Clydesdale was more  than it was already paying on its variable rate loan with the other  
bank.  Mr L would  have  known  that; and
-I could see why fixing the interest  rate, so giving G certainty  over repayments, was likely 
to have been a relevant factor for G  given that the rental  income available  to meet  the 
annual loan payments of around £55,000 only provided a margin of about £5,000.
So although  I acknowledged what Mr L had said about the reduction in margin on the loan 
(from 2% with Gs former bank to 1.5% with Clydesdale) being  probably  the single most 
attractive aspect of the Clydesdale pitch, and what he had also said about  Clydesdale 
having told him rates were likely to rise rather than fall, on balance I concluded that G would 
still have moved its banking to Clydesdale  and would still have taken out a fixed  rate loan.  
In coming to this view I noted that, notwithstanding Gs business plan, Mr L was still actively 
considering a variable  rate loan as well as a fixed rate loan until very soon before the fixed  
rate facility  acceptance  letter was signed.  I also said that, even if I had not concluded that 
Clydesdale had led Mr L to think that Gs fixed rate would be more directly  linked to a LIBOR  
benchmark than it actually was, I did not believe the bank would have given him a quote 
which identified the additional income element.   
Not only do lenders not, as a matter of course,  break these underlying rates  down into their 
constituent elements, but Mr L knew what overall rate G was accepting.  So  even though he 
had subsequently said that, if hed known about  the 0.5% additional income  element which 
the bank had added to the reference  rate he should  also have been offered (and would 
have taken)  a variable  rate loan with a cap, in all the circumstances I did not believe I could 
fairly conclude that that would have been the most likely outcome.
I then considered one final point  which stemmed from the fact that this matter  had been 
outstanding for some  considerable  time.   In my view, Clydesdale  had had the opportunity 
over the years to have  clarified to Mr L and Mrs L how it had calculated the reference rate 
for Gs Tailored Business  Loan  maybe  even as long ago as 2014, when all other aspects 
of the original complaint had been settled but the hidden margin  aspect  was carved  out.  In  
other words, I considered that Clydesdale had always known that the reference rate was 
not an identifiable LIBOR benchmark and that it had indeed incorporated around 0.5%  into 
that rate as an additional income  element.   Yet it had not said anything  about any of this to 
Mr L and Mrs L, leading  them to continue to pursue their concerns as they did.  Had  the 
bank explained  the true position  sooner  I considered the complaint could have been settled 
some time ago  but instead, Mr and Mrs L had pursued their concerns with tenacity. 
I therefore felt they should receive,  as the partners in G, compensation of £3,000 to reflect 
the significant inconvenience,  and very likely distress from time to time,  for having doing so.
Responses to my first provisional  decision  
Neither party accepted my provisional decision, and both made further  submissions (Gs, in 
particular, were extensive).  On  the central issues Clydesdale initially said, in summary:
-there was no proper evidential basis for a number of my findings.  The provisional
Ref: DRN21583866decision failed to consider critical material, did not address key inconsistencies,  and took 
irrelevant evidence into consideration.  Moreover,  the bank had not been provided with  
and had not therefore had an opportunity  to comment  on  all the material evidence on
which I had relied;
-significant  and undisputed  information  was provided to G at the relevant time (in 
particular, the loan facility letter and during the later trade call) which made  clear  the 
agreed rate and that it was not linked to any benchmark. The provisional decision 
wrongly placed reliance on documents which were  not seen by the parties at the time or 
which post-dated G taking out its loan, and the bank does not accept that any concerns 
or criticisms  around  possible wider misunderstandings within  the bank are borne out by 
the evidence;
-no margin was hidden from G, and there  is no credible  basis  for asserting that there 
was a relevant  misrepresentation or misunderstanding on the part of the Complainant as 
to the interest  rate being charged.;
-it is unfair and unjustified to criticise the Bank now for not having clarified  maybe 
even as long ago as 2014  why [Gs] understanding about the interest  rate calculation 
methodology was incorrect.   The way the bank  calculates  reference  rates is 
confidential, proprietary  and commercially sensitive information, and it is in any event 
irrelevant to determining  this complaint; but
-whilst  the bank  disagreed with the principal findings of the provisional decision, it 
recognised the amount of time the matter has been outstanding and the likely impact of 
this on Mr L and Mrs L.  So it said it was prepared to pay them £3,000, as contemplated 
by my provisional decision  without  any acceptance of liability.
On the central  issues, G initially said  in summary:
-it appreciated the finding in the provisional  decision  about  the confusing  and indeed  
misleading documents that [Clydesdale] sent out and the consequences thereof;
-but it was disappointed, and indeed confused, that [I] still feel that [G] would have taken 
out a fixed rate loan even if [it was] aware that there  was an additional hidden  margin  
within the fixed rate.   It was the reduced  margin of 1.5%  which attracted G to transfer its 
business to Clydesdale; if there  had been no misrepresentation G would not have taken 
out a fixed rate loan;
-the undisclosed additional income element in the reference  rate was a serious  case  of 
misrepresentation, which G cannot believe  this Service  could condone;
-the bank knew  that interest rates were on their way down yet it nevertheless encouraged 
G to take out its Tailored  Business Loan on a fixed rate;
-the regulators review  into the mis-selling of Interest Rate  Hedging Products (IRHPs) 
found that over 90% were  mis-sold.  Tailored Business  Loans  incorporated an interest 
rate swap  so, on the balance of probabilities, Gs loan was mis-sold, both because of 
that and also the now admitted  systemic  hiding of margin  in these fixed rate products. 
So the only compliant product at the time would have been a variable rate loan; and
Ref: DRN21583867-because of this, the remedy  should  be to tear up the fixed rate loan contract and 
replace it with a variable  rate facility from the outset.  Thereafter, G should  be invited to 
present any consequential loss claim  that may arise if it is greater than the 8% 
compensatory interest  that will be applicable to the costs identified. 
During subsequent engagement with both Clydesdale and G, they either  added  or re-
emphasised a number of points. In particular:
Clydesdale said, in summary:
-basing  customer medium to long term fixed rates  on 1M LIBOR  plus a margin  would not 
be a financially credible position for a bank to take.  By way of illustration,  in May 2008, 
at the time the customer took out the fixed  rate loan, 1M LIBOR  was at 5.45% (unusually 
just above the 10-year  point on the interest rate yield curve).   Had the bank been basing 
the customers fixed rate on 1M LIBOR plus a margin therefore, the customer would 
have received a higher fixed rate than 5.67%.
G said, in summary:
-at the time, banks  mostly lent to small businesses  using the Bank of England base rate 
as the foundation of any lending rate.  There was no lending  on cost of funds plus 
margin.   Moreover,  a fixed rate should  not have constituent parts; it should be bank 
base rate (or LIBOR);
-whilst  there is irrefutable evidence that the Fixed Rate = LIBOR  which is confirmed in 
the deal ticket as 1-month LIBOR, the rate G was actually given was the 10 years  fixed  
rate for that date  to which the additional income  element of c0.5% was added  to 
produce the reference rate.   So the bank did not use a standard  LIBOR reference point 
but determined  the fixed rate based on the market outlook on rates  (swap  curves)  over 
the term of the loan (10 years).;  and
-Clydesdale should not be allowed to benefit  from two misrepresentations  i.e., the 
additional income element in the reference rate, and indicating  that interest  rates were 
generally on their way up when they were actually heading downwards.  
Clydesdale then contacted me to say it was considering making an offer to settle Gs 
complaint.  It  subsequently met G and Mr M and set out its offer in writing.  In summary, that 
offer  which the bank said was a commercial  offer, made not on the basis of any liability  but 
to help both it and Mr L and Mrs L to move forward  comprised:
-writing off Gs debt together with Mr L and Mrs Ls personal  guarantee obligations in 
respect of F  in total, £178,783.20 (which it noted  exceeded  our relevant award  limit of 
£150,000); and
-releasing any security provided  by Mr L and Mrs L in support of those facilities/
guarantee liabilities.
However, G felt unable to accept that offer.  Mr L considered that it fell considerably  short of
the losses he believed  G had suffered arising from taking out the Tailored Business Loan.
My second provisional decision
Ref: DRN21583868Before I addressed the central issues I noted  Gs continuing concern  about what it 
considered to have  been  Clydesdales attempts to mislead me over the extent and nature of 
Mr Cs, and especially Mrs Rs, direct involvement with the partnership as relationship  
managers.  Gs main point here was that it saw this as symptomatic of what it considered  to 
be Clydesdales wider  deception towards this Service.
I acknowledged what both parties  had said about this, but I nevertheless concluded that  
given the scrutiny I had applied  to the central questions  I was satisfied I was able to reach  
a fair conclusion on them without risking being  diverted into delving further into the status of 
Mr C and/or Mr R.  
I also made the following preliminary  observations:
-Clydesdale had seen  all relevant evidence on which I had relied,  and upon  which  
I continued to rely;
-Gs loan was not covered by the monetary limit of the Consumer Credit Acts, because  
loans to partnerships  are subject to a limit of £25,000.  But  G was right to say that 
Clydesdale was under  a regulatory  obligation  to treat it fairly; and
-I had considered whether, in light of the banks offer (which exceeded our relevant  award  
limit of £150,000)  it was appropriate  for me to continue to consider the complaint, but 
I concluded that I should.
I then came,  in summary, to the following conclusions:
-On the question of whether or not I considered that Clydesdale  had misled Mr L into 
thinking that the interest rate on Gs Tailored Business  Loan  would have a direct 
correlation to a LIBOR benchmark,  and taking account of the broad evidence provided, 
amongst other things  I noted that  if senior  bank employees dealing with fixed  rate 
Tailored Business Loans had over time described them  as LIBOR  plus margin  I felt it 
was not unreasonable to form an on balance view that that might have been  how Mr C 
had presented Gs loan to Mr L.  I accepted  this was not conclusive and that it was 
possible to draw  a different conclusion but, either way, I considered that the broader  
documentation was  reasonably  all part of the wider picture.
-G had since provided a loan repayment profile which  appeared to suggest that the 
reference rate would indeed be directly linked  to LIBOR.   But the bank could not find 
a copy of that profile, and it could not explain how it had come into Gs possession.   
I nevertheless concluded  that, even without that repayment profile, there  was enough  
other documentation specific to Gs loan to indicate  on balance   that G took out its 
Tailored Business Loan with Mr L reasonably thinking  that the interest rate would have a 
closer, and more direct, link to a LIBOR benchmark than it did.  This included  the 
Indicative Terms Paper, the loan facility letter, the nature of the trade call when the deal 
was finalised,  together  with my earlier conclusion about how the relationship  manager  
could well have described Tailored Business Loan facilities  from the outset.
-There was no dispute that Mr L knew that the overall rate for Gs Tailored Business Loan 
was 7.19%.  But the point I had made in my provisional decision was that Mr L had 
maintained he was led to believe the reference  rate of 5.67% (which  he clearly also 
knew about) had been represented  as a LIBOR benchmark, without anything added  on 
top.  However, the bank had since acknowledged that  as part of the reference rate 
Ref: DRN21583869calculation it had incorporated what it described as an additional income  element of 
around 0.5%.  At  the time, Mr L had no way of knowing that the bank had done  this.
-Whilst there was a continuing difference of view between  the parties as to how 
Clydesdale came to take over Gs banking and provide the Tailored Business Loan,  and 
noting that its business plan said G was looking for a fixed-rate loan,  I didnt accept the 
banks view that that meant the partnership had already decided  against a variable rate 
loan.  In my opinion it was clear  that a range of options were still being  considered,  more  
or less right up until the time the deal was finalised  not least because,  whilst some  of 
the repayment profiles it issued  were for fixed rate loans, others were for variable rates.  
However, I was persuaded overall that G had wanted to find a new bank, because  G had 
made the change  and had accepted  the new loan at a fixed  rate which was slightly  
higher than the rate it had been  paying  on its variable rate loan to the other  bank. 
-G also knew that interest rates generally were dropping; indeed,  it had seen the effect of 
this on its existing  variable rate facility.  Whilst I acknowledged the point  Mr L had made 
about his recollection  that Clydesdale told him rates  were  going to rise again,  other  
indicators pointed in the opposite direction.  Arguably more  importantly, though,  the 
significant  and as we now know, long term  collapse in interest rates  was not then 
generally expected.   I considered it was a not unreasonable approach for G still to have  
wanted to protect itself against potential interest rate rises over the coming 10 years.  
So, overall, I concluded that  at the time  Mr L was more  attracted to fixed  rate facilities 
than variable.  In  saying this I noted that when all other  aspects of Gs complaint were 
settled in 2014 it was on the basis that the partnership  would  have taken out a 5-year 
fixed rate, not a variable rate.  Although it was clear that G was seeking to persuade  me 
that that settlement should be set aside, I felt unable to accept  notwithstanding all that 
had since come to light  there was a proper basis for doing so.
-Both the bank and G had, however, since found some common ground about how the 
reference rate had been calculated   in that they were both now saying it was not 
founded on a LIBOR benchmark, but instead  on a 10-year  market  rate.  I found this 
helpful, because  in assessing  what G might  otherwise have done it was clear that the 
reference rate of 5.67% was a 10-year  market-based fixed rate plus the additional 
income element  of c0.5% (which  the bank accepted  it had not told Mr L about).
-I had previously said that, when Clydesdale had provided the reference rate quote it 
would not have been under a duty to have  identified  the additional income element as a 
constituent part of the 5.67% rate.  G disputed that, because it contended  that it 
overlooked the banks  broader  regulatory obligation  to treat its customers fairly.  But 
I remained of the view that, in quoting the basis of fixed rate, I would not generally have 
expected a lender to break such a rate down into its constituent elements.  Furthermore,  
I didnt accept Gs contention that the regulators earlier conclusion that over 90% of 
IRHPs were mis-sold  was directly relevant to the specifics  of the circumstances under 
which G took out its loan.  Not  only did Tailored  Business Loans  operate differently from 
swap-based loans provided  by many other lenders but, in this case,  the point I was 
considering was simply the hidden margin allegation.
-In assessing  what I considered  G would have done if the bank  had acted as I would  have 
expected it to have done (i.e., not what Mr L would  have done  if it had known about  the 
additional income element), I concluded that he was likely to have felt that an overall 
fixed rate of 7.19% was equitable   not least because, if he hadnt  thought  it represented 
a reasonable deal it seems unlikely he would have accepted  it when he did.
Ref: DRN215838610-I remained of the opinion that, despite  the banks  view that my comments  about  its co-
operation represented  unjustified criticism, it could  have clarified the true position about  
how it had calculated  the reference rate and the additional income  element earlier.  So,  
for the same reasons,  I maintained  the view that it should  pay £3,000 compensation  
albeit taking account of the partnerships dissolution and Mr Ls sequestration.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Clydesdale responded relatively briefly, saying  in summary:
-Even though  the parties remained some  way apart it had no further  submissions to 
make.  It did, however, note that (despite  my assurance that it had seen at least one 
example of all relevant  evidence  I had relied  on) the range and complexities of Tailored 
Business Loans meant that some  of evidence I had seen might not have related to a 
fixed rate loan such as Gs.
-The bank  also noted that I had referred  to the reference rate as being based on a 10-
year market  rate, but it wanted to make it clear that the rate used is not a market rate 
as such but instead  a bank rate curve.
-Because of the dissolution of the partnership and Mr Ls sequestration, any payment 
made by the Bank can only be made to Mr and Mrs L (recognising the sequestration of 
Mr L and the relevant  interest of the trustee in bankruptcy).  Furthermore,  it believed  its 
offer to settle the case was more than reasonable  particularly because it would have 
allowed Mr and Mrs L to have moved  on.
-It sought confirmation that, once the complaint had been finalised, only this Final  
Decision will be published  not either  earlier provisional decision (although  it was 
agreeable for the final decision  to replicate the second provisional decision.)
Subsequently, and in response to my specific query about the repayment schedule  which  
the bank could not locate  but which appeared to show that the fixed  rate was directly  linked  
to a LIBOR benchmark, Clydesdale added:
-Although G had said the repayment profile  had been received along with the facility  
letter, these documents are not normally issued together (they  are produced  by different 
departments whose processes tended to run at different speeds.)  
-In general, a facility  letter is issued first  when the wider  terms of the lending would be 
agreed with the customer.  Repayment profiles are typically issued later,  and for loans 
such as Gs it was not unusual for the bank  to have issued  multiple versions to reflect 
(for example) different interest  rates and/or  loan periods.  Only  when the loan is drawn 
are the terms finalised  meaning  that any repayment profile issued to the customer  
ahead of drawdown is indicative. 
-Between issuing  the facility letter and the loan being drawn its records  show  that eleven  
repayment profiles were  issued in April and May 2008.  Having reviewed all of our 
records and the 11 repayment schedules that were  issued to the customer  the term 
LIBOR Rate is not one we recognise  in respect  of the documents  issued.
Ref: DRN215838611Gs response was much  more extensive  than the banks.  Through its representative it 
provided an initial further submission, along  with making  a data subject access  request.  We 
complied with that request, but to begin  with Mr L had difficulty gaining  access to the 
material.  Once he had done so, it took him some time to review it all  not least because  a 
significant amount  of material had been  provided.   I received Gs final representations in 
early April 2020 (partly  from Mr L and Mrs L, and partly from Mr M their representative), after 
which I sought some additional clarification  which was received a couple  of weeks later.
I summarise the totality of these representations:
-Given the banks  inaccurate statements about  who had introduced G to Clydesdale  (in 
particular, Mr L had been approached over a period of time by the banks  Mr B), and also 
who its relationship  managers were,  it was hard to see where there is likely to be 
common ground.  However, G was reassured   [that]  the Ombudsman  is able to 
focus on the other separate issues  [but these two]  are important indicators of the 
culture and lack of integrity within the bank  that is pertinent to the wider  arguments ...
-My use of the terms reference  rate and additional income  element  (rather than fixed 
rate and hidden  margin) may have influenced my thinking in favour of the bank.  The  
term hidden margin better and more clearly describes the fact that there is an 
undisclosed profit element in the fixed rate that should in an honest  environment have 
been included  in the margin  that was openly  agreed after negotiation. 
-G had no need to change banks; it had a variable rate loan against base rate with a 2% 
margin which still had over 8 years to run.   To win the business [Clydesdale] would 
[have needed]  to demonstrate a materially more competitive product.  Mr L was not 
discussing this with any other  bank, and the decision  to move was driven only by the 
lure of the lower  margin (declared) compared  to RBS (1.5%  vs 2.0%). 
-G was not determined to take out a fixed rate loan; that had actually been Clydesdales 
suggestion.  Moreover, the evidence shows that variable rate facilities were still being 
considered until very shortly before the loan was finalised   and that, previously, Mr L 
had taken out variable rate borrowing when rates  were rising.  In addition,  when 
Clydesdale told Mr L it expected interest  rates to rise, the bank actually expected them  to 
fall. This  is the further misrepresentation that occurred and was the driver  the bank used 
for pushing the Fixed  Rate [Loan].  Added to everything else,  if Clydesdale had told the 
truth  it would have  pushed the decision back to remaining on the variable rate that the 
customer was on prior to involvement with [Clydesdale].
-G does not make  the argument that its loan was mis-sold arising from the outcome of the 
regulators wider review.  Rather,  the banks failings relate to the misrepresentations 
made [to it] and are distinct from the other breaches  of regulatory obligations
-Clydesdales action  in not disclosing the hidden margin failed the then FSAs treating 
customers fairly/provide clear, fair, and not misleading information tests.  The bank is 
under an obligation  to meet all regulatory  conduct of business rules   which means  it 
should have disclosed  the hidden margin.  Moreover, consumer  credit  legislation should  
also be considered  in assessing  whether or not the bank acted appropriately.  Overall, if 
the bank had acted correctly it could not have included  margin  in the fixed rate, it would 
have to have been included in the Margin figure in order  to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN215838612-Commentary in the second provisional  decision about Mr Ls recollection of how he 
received the repayment profile which referred directly to LIBOR  creates the unwarranted  
impression that this evidence has in some  way been fabricated.  [By the bank] doing  this 
the customer would have been  able to consider this proposal alongside his existing 
arrangement on a variable rate as well as other competitive market offerings.  G rejects 
Clydesdales explanation about which part of the bank issued repayment profiles  and 
adds that the partnership  did not receive  the deal confirmation  at the time.  It took the 
bank 11 years to provide, through this Service, the deal ticket.
-The central issue is less that the bank represented  that the fixed rate would be 
LIBOR + margin [but] that the Fixed Rate was not LIBOR  only but contained a hidden 
margin as well.  The point of the complaint was the hidden margin component  and not 
the LIBOR rate itself.   In addition,  G now considers  that the actual hidden margin was 
nearer to 0.6%, rather than 0.5%.
-Clydesdales fundamental failure was to represent the reference rate, or fixed  rate, as 
a cost of funds  i.e., a market rate beyond  the banks control as was [Gs] existing 
arrangement with the variable rate.  The only area for negotiation was the margin.   For 
this reason, the [Clydesdale] option looked attractive as it was 0.5%  less than [Gs] 
previous RBS loan.   The bank were  able to succeed with hiding the margin  in the fixed 
rate that the customer believed to be an independent market rate because unlike bank 
base rate it is not easily referenced  by an unsophisticated individual  and secondly the 
rate is volatile  The fact that the bank  did not actually use LIBOR makes no difference.   
It was a rate that could not be checked  by the customer to enable  the deceit  to be 
revealed.
-On the question of what  G would have  done  had it known the true position,  I was wrong 
to have talked  in terms of the extent to which I might or might not have expected  
Clydesdale to have  explained the make up of the 5.67% rate.  I should instead have 
viewed it as a revised state of knowledge  that the customer  would be aware that 
Clydesdale had fraudulently misrepresented a number  of matters  [such] that the 
customers counterfactual actions must be considered.   Moreover, if the break costs 
had been properly disclosed G would have re-evaluated the perceived benefit  of a fixed  
rate loan against a variable rate one.  with this new deceit regarding the 0.5%  hidden  
margin  this disbars  [Clydesdale] from providing any counterfactual fixed rate alternate 
product even if one were appropriate which it is not.
-It is right to set aside the agreement reached  in 2014 (which was reached following our 
adjudicators assessment  of Gs earlier complaint, and following considerable delays  and 
prevarication by Clydesdale).  This is not only because of the banks fraudulent  
misrepresentations to its customer   [but]  the banks culpability is now established to 
have been on a much larger scale such that it is inconceivable to suggest that with this 
knowledge the customer would enter into any agreement with such  an organisation.  It 
is reasonable to suppose  that the customer expected that once the hidden margin was 
proven, then the whole agreement would fall away   Moreover,  taking account of the 
FCA review there would  not have been  a compliant [alternative]  product available such  
that there is an overwhelming probability  that redress  would subsequently have been 
provided in the FCA review by way of a tear up and comparison against a variable rate 
loan  possibly with the addition of a cap ...  [This  is]  the methodology we are 
proposing   If the facts  that have now been determined require the whole agreement to 
be set aside then it is the Ombudsmans  obligation  to do this in this name of fairness.
Ref: DRN215838613-Part of its reason  for rejecting Clydesdales settlement offer was because  a 
considerable amount of the debt was as a direct result of the banks wrongdoing  in 
effect offering  little real compensation to the customer.  G assesses its direct losses 
(comparing the actual loan in took out with a variable rate loan linked to base  rate and 
with a margin of 1.5%) to be around £217,000   excluding costs,  interest,  and 
consequential losses.  Furthermore,  Mr L suggests that  by outlining  the proposed basis  
of its offer to this Service before discussing  it with him  Clydesdale was inappropriately 
attempting to coach [me] through  the process. 
On the question of our response to Gs data subject access request, Mr L asked why there 
appeared to be redactions beyond the removal  of personal details.  I explained that these 
were passages which contained material the bank  had provided to us in confidence  
although some of it had since been made  open.  However, I also confirmed that none of the 
redacted material which the partnership had not seen had had a bearing  on my provisional 
conclusions.  Mr L indicated he was content to accept my assurance about this.
However, Mr L separately expressed some criticism of my approach to considering Gs 
complaint  specifically,  that I did not speak  directly to the banks Mr C other than by way of 
a conference call with two of his head office  colleagues.  He  added that the fact that you did 
not get both original parties together to clarify  the position absolutely, once and for all, to be 
a missed opportunity  and a failure  by you to grasp the situation firmly and decisively.
More recently, G provided a copy of a QCs opinion which in part related to his complaint 
and which  set out an analysis of potential  misrepresentations  as to the hidden  margin/
additional income element.  In addition, the opinion summarised the law on 
misrepresentation and other potential claims that could  be made in relation to this matter.  
This opinion  was submitted to us in confidence, as is provided  for under our rules.
G subsequently submitted  an Advocates opinion  again, in confidence   which  presented a 
view as to why the non-disclosure of the hidden margin/additional income  element within 
the reference rate, as opposed  to disclosure as part of the agreed margin of 1.5%, was a 
fraudulent misrepresentation, and why this gave rise to the option  of reducing both the loan 
contract and the 2014 settlement agreement.   It also presented  a view about why the 
settlement agreement did not act as an impediment to determining  a complaint about  the 
alleged misrepresentations, along  with providing  an opinion on what settlement I ought  to 
reach in determining the complaint.  The settlement, in the Advocates  view,  should be 
based  upon the difference in cost of the fixed term loan with the Bank and the variable loan 
with RBS with its 2% margin, taking into account  any benefit received under  the 2014  
Agreement. 
I received this last opinion  towards the end of June 2020, after a discussion with Gs 
representative.  I consider  that it sets out Gs arguments in relation to its complaint clearly, 
and it has assisted me in my own independent consideration of the misrepresentation 
complaint and the impact, if any, that the 2014  settlement agreement ought to have on my 
decision. 
My findings
I have considered (and, where previously provided, re-considered) the available evidence 
and arguments  from the outset, in order to decide  what is  in my opinion   fair and 
Ref: DRN215838614reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence  is 
incomplete, inconclusive,  or contradictory (as some  of it is here), I need  to reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Furthermore, in reaching that fair and reasonable determination I have  where applicable  
taken into account  (as set out in DISP  3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook):
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Specifically, I have taken  into account  the law as it relates to misrepresentation where 
relevant.  But,  ultimately, my determination is based on what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the specific and individual circumstances of this complaint.  It should not be 
taken as a decision  on the law, nor  whilst considered in alignment with the law  should it 
be viewed as being decided as if it were  a civil court claim for misrepresentation.  The 
complaint is being  decided,  appropriately,  by reference to the investigatory  and decision-
making powers, and statutory duties, of the Financial Ombudsman Service.  In other words, 
this decision is not the same  as a court judgment. 
Preliminary observations
I make  a handful of preliminary observations.   Firstly,  I have substantially  condensed the 
lengthy submissions  I have received  most particularly  those  from G  distilling  their main 
themes, and illustrating several points with direct quotations.   I intend  no discourtesy by 
condensing things as I have; rather, it is more a reflection of our practical  and purposive 
approach to reviewing  complaints, in line with our remit  to do so with the minimum of 
formality  acting,  as we do, as an informal alternative to the civil courts.  But, for the 
avoidance of any doubt, I confirm that I have read, considered, and taken account of all the 
representations I have received, even if they are not expressly referenced in this decision.  
Gs further submissions incorporated  a certain  amount of material  relating  to other 
Clydesdale borrowers   including the outcome  of others complaints about, and claims 
arising from, Tailored Business Loans.  I recognise why this material was provided, and 
I have taken note of it.  But, in doing so, I consider that my principal focus has to be on the 
circumstances of Gs own dealings  with the bank   in order that I may reach my overall 
conclusions on this individual complaint  fairly and reasonably.  Furthermore,  it is for this 
Service to determine  its approach to reviewing complaints.  So, whilst I acknowledge what 
Mr L has said about the circumstances of my speaking  to the banks  Mr C, it was for me to 
decide whether  (and if so how and when)  it was appropriate to do so.  Im satisfied that 
I have an appropriate  understanding  of his involvement.
My final preliminary point relates  to the need to avoid assessing  any aspect of the overall 
matter with the benefit of hindsight.  I say this because  a certain amount of after the event 
material has been provided, and new (and later) information has come to light during the 
Ref: DRN215838615course of our enquiries.  However,  in reaching my overall conclusion  I can only consider the 
position as it was at the relevant time(s)  that is, what  the parties either knew or reasonably 
should have known, including any applicable duties  and obligations  on them.  
Allegations of misrepresentation
There are several allegations  of misrepresentation which G has made  over the course of this 
complaint which, to the extent they are central  and relevant to it, I need to address.  The 
allegations I have  identified are:
1.An alleged misrepresentation (or misrepresentations) as to the underlying nature of the 
reference rate being  an identifiable LIBOR benchmark.
2.An alleged misrepresentation (or misrepresentations) by way of the non-disclosure  of the 
hidden margin/additional  income  element within the reference rate.
3.An alleged misrepresentation (or misrepresentations) as to the negotiability of the margin  
being limited to the disclosed margin of 1.5%.
4.An alleged misrepresentation (or misrepresentations) as to likely  movements in interest 
rates at around  the time G took out its Tailored Business  Loan.  
I recognise that G considers at least some  of these representations (or misrepresentations, 
as it alleges) were made fraudulently.  I have  considered this by reference to relevant law on 
fraudulent misrepresentation, but without  disregarding other forms of misrepresentation 
which may be found to have taken place in law  should I not be persuaded there is the 
necessary evidence to demonstrate fraud. 
I also re-emphasise that, while I take into account  the law for the purposes  of my decision on 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint, this 
Service is not the same as a court.  The nature of our remit means that, while the law is 
relevant, I am deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  In other words, I am not 
deciding a claim for misrepresentation as may be presented before a court (nor other legal 
claims such as for negligent misstatement  or breach of contract). 
The approach I have adopted to consider  the alleged misrepresentations, taking into account 
relevant law, is as follows:
1.to consider whether a false statement of fact was made  to G by Clydesdale.  In  other  
words, whether some express representation  was made which  gave rise to a false 
statement of the facts, or Clydesdale  impliedly gave an impression of the facts  to G 
which was false (and the impression G formed as a result was reasonable).  I have also 
considered that any such statements  need  be more than mere  opinion;
2.if there was a false statement of fact, what Clydesdale  ought to have done differently in 
the circumstances.  This is relevant to the question  of inducement,  but also to what  
I consider would have  been fair and reasonable for Clydesdale  to have done in the 
circumstances of this complaint;
3.in relation to the allegation  that the misrepresentation(s) amount  to fraud, if a false  
statement of fact is established whether that false statement was made in the knowledge 
of its falsity or whether it was recklessly  made  such that it should be treated as 
Ref: DRN215838616fraud/deceit by Clydesdale.  Or,  alternatively,  whether  that misrepresentation was 
careless so as to be negligent or innocently  made  in the false knowledge of its truth; and
4.whether in making the false statement of fact, if so found, Clydesdale induced  G to enter 
into the transaction for its Tailored Business Loan, taking into account the nuances  in the 
law which apply depending on whether or not I have  found  fraud  and the appropriate 
remedy in all the circumstances  of the complaint.  In particular, if the appropriate remedy  
at law would be rescission/reduction, where fraud  is established  the test on inducement 
differs from the usual  but for causation test which would apply.  So I would need  to take 
this into account  were I to make  an award/direction tantamount  to rescission/reduction, 
bearing in mind that my fair and reasonable remit requires  consideration of the law.  
I add, for the sake of completeness  and clarity,  that where I conclude there is no false 
statement of fact it is not necessary for me to consider  the other stages of this approach. 
However, before I consider the detail of the misrepresentation  allegations  there are some  
other points  I should address which relate to what Mr L, in particular, sees  as a wider 
culture/lack of integrity within  the bank.  These include the related questions of how the 
partnership was introduced to Clydesdale  in the first place, and who acted as its relationship  
manager at various  times.  
I have received extensive representations on both these issues, and I do recognise the point  
G is seeking to make.   But I dont believe that these  are the issues on which the fundamental 
questions in this complaint  turn.  In my opinion, whether or not the current differences  of 
view over any of this are illustrative of any particular culture at Clydesdale is not relevant to 
my determination of a complaint about  the alleged misrepresentations, except where  
I consider that would be relevant to my findings  on whether the misrepresentations, if any, 
had an element of fraud.  And even then, evidence as to a wider  culture or a lack of integrity 
at Clydesdale  would not be directly relevant to whether misrepresentations made  by the 
bank, if any, were made with conscious  knowledge as to their falsity  and/or recklessness 
such that Clydesdale would be taken to have  acted fraudulently in the specific circumstances 
surrounding the provision of the Tailored Business Loan to G without evidence which goes to 
the required level of knowledge or recklessness  by Clydesdale in relation to that transaction.  
1.Alleged misrepresentation as to the underlying  nature  of the reference  rate being an 
identifiable LIBOR benchmark 
I start by considering  whether  Clydesdale made  a false statement of fact in relation to the 
underlying nature of the reference rate to the extent of its description of its relationship with 
an identifiable LIBOR benchmark.  This  may be drawn from explicit  statements made by the 
bank around the time G took out its Tailored Business  Loan,  or impliedly by reference to 
other information Clydesdale provided  to G that would  have reasonably given Mr L a false  
impression of the facts.  
In both my first and second provisional  decisions  I set out, as summarised  above,  why 
I considered it likely that Mr L accepted Gs Tailored Business Loan reasonably thinking that 
the reference rate would have a rather more direct  correlation  with a LIBOR  benchmark 
than it actually did.  In  my view, the blend of evidence  suggested  that  on the balance of 
probabilities  it was likely that, partly through his direct dealings with Mr C and partly as a 
result of the banks own documentation, Mr L reasonably would have come away  from the 
negotiations under that impression.  
Ref: DRN215838617I have noted the banks  continuing concern that, because of the different types of fixed rate 
Tailored Business Loans it offered  at the time, I might have misinterpreted some of the wider  
documentation G had provided.  I understand what Clydesdale says,  but I believe this risks 
overlooking the specific  point  I was making as it related to the banks dealings  with Mr L and 
the terms of Gs loan  which was that, in all the circumstances and on balance, I felt able to 
accept it was possible, maybe even probable, that Mr C had generally expressed the loan 
not as being base rate plus margin but simply as LIBOR  plus margin.   
I further felt that the banks Indicative  Terms Paper, when it said Fixed and/or Variable 
together with 1.5%  above libor  fixed rate to be confirmed was capable  (albeit  wrongly) of 
being reasonably interpreted as meaning that a fixed rate loan would be linked to a LIBOR  
benchmark.  In addition, I felt that the loan facility letter  while not mentioning LIBOR  but 
following on from the Indicative Terms Paper  could  as a result, albeit also wrongly, have 
been reasonably interpreted  as the fixed rate being  set by reference  to LIBOR  on the day.
The bank had previously  said there  wasnt any contemporaneous evidence  to support Gs 
contention  after which Mr L produced  a further repayment profile which  the bank said it did 
not recognise.  In my second  provisional  decision I acknowledged this difference of view,  but 
I also said I felt able to reach  my conclusions without taking that evidence into account.  
However, in noting  that that schedule  differed  from all others issued by the bank over a 
period of several months  in its material  reference to LIBOR, and that G describes it as 
having been received  in parallel with the facility letter  which from other relevant  evidence 
I have seen I consider,  on balance, is unlikely to have happened  I am of the view that 
I should place  limited reliance on it as contemporaneous evidence in support of Gs case. 
 
However, notwithstanding that and overall,  I continue to find that G accepted its Tailored 
Business Loan  under  the reasonable impression that the reference rate was to have a 
rather more direct correlation  with an identifiable LIBOR benchmark  than it actually did  but 
that it was no more than that.  I am therefore persuaded that the accumulation  of evidence  to 
which I have referred  arguably  amounted to a false statement of the facts  by Clydesdale 
about the underlying nature of the reference rate, but only to the extent that the impression 
given was of a greater correlation between LIBOR and the reference rate than there 
actually was.  I do not consider the evidence  supports a clear  representation having been 
made that the reference rate was, in its totality, to have been  an identifiable LIBOR  
benchmark.  
But before I assess the impact of this on G I need  to look at how the reference rate was 
actually calculated.  Clydesdale  has said that although I had referred to it as being based on 
a 10-year market  rate, it is not a market rate as such but instead  a bank rate curve.  
However, notwithstanding this its clear  it is not simply  a direct LIBOR benchmark either, 
even though the monthly repayment cycle means  it has a relationship to short-term  LIBOR  
(as referenced on the deal ticket).   That is just one element of the curve which produces the 
final rate.  Moreover, Im satisfied that the deal ticket  was an internal bank document,  and 
was not the same as a deal confirmation  which goes to explain why the bank did not 
initially provide  the deal ticket to G.  I acknowledge that Mr L says he did not receive  the deal 
confirmation either, but that is a separate matter.  However, neither document (and any 
delay in Mr L having sight of them) fundamentally affects  my overall conclusion about  how 
the reference rate was calculated, or the impact that methodology had on G.
Because I have concluded that there was arguably a false statement of fact as to the 
relationship between LIBOR and the reference  rate, its necessary for me to consider 
whether any such statement by Clydesdale may have been fraudulent in nature.  That is, did 
Ref: DRN215838618the bank make any such statement either knowing  it was false, or was it reckless  as to 
whether it was true or false?
The conclusion I have  so far reached  is that G accepted its Tailored Business Loan under 
the impression  that the reference  rate was to have a more direct correlation with an 
identifiable LIBOR benchmark than it actually did.  I have used this careful form of words 
consistently; to be clear, it is not the same as saying that G accepted its Tailored Business 
loan on the basis  that the reference rate was simply an identifiable LIBOR  benchmark.  That 
is not my finding, and I do not accept that was the case.  Correlated with  yes, but directly-
benchmarked  no.  
Whilst I can see how some of the banks documentation could have been open  to 
misinterpretation I do not consider that its cumulative effect  and anything  Mr C (or others in 
the bank) might have  said is, on balance, likely  to have  amounted to a clear indication  that 
the reference rate was as simple as that.  Indeed, it never could have been, and  again, on 
balance  I find it unlikely  the bank would  have said it was.  If it had done  so, it may have 
been more likely that I would have found  fraud  on the part of Clydesdale.  
Gs Advocates opinion  sets the position out as It was represented  by the Bank that [the 
fixed rate] came  to a total interest rate of 7.19%.  This was a misrepresentation.  In  fact, at 
the beginning of May 2008 the Sterling 1 month LIBOR  rate was 5.116%.   The correct strike 
rate was therefore 5.116% + 1.5% margin + 0.02% mandatory costs = 6.636%.  The  Bank 
falsely misrepresented  that the rate was 7.19% which resulted in a secret increase  in their 
margin of 0.554%  or 37%.
I have some difficulty with how this is characterised.  Firstly, the overall  rate Clydesdale  
offered and G accepted/paid clearly was 7.19%.   There is no dispute  about that.  So, to that 
extent, the fixed rate was evidently  not misrepresented.   But again, the more  pertinent point 
is that  although I have  found that Mr L went ahead under the impression that the reference 
rate had a rather more  direct correlation with an identifiable LIBOR  benchmark  than it 
actually did  I have  not found  that Clydesdale expressly represented  the reference rate as 
an identifiable LIBOR benchmark.  My conclusion, as set out earlier, is that  whilst  some of 
the documentation could have been open  to interpretation  this was not, in my view, the 
way the reference rate was in its totality  represented by Clydesdale.  I find that the reference 
rate was expressed  as being linked  to, or associated with, LIBOR, but not as an identifiable 
LIBOR benchmark in its entirety. 
I do not consider  that any representation  made  by Clydesdale  as to any relationship between 
the reference rate and LIBOR was made  with conscious  knowledge or recklessness.   As 
I have said, I find that a correlation was implied by an accumulation  of documentation and 
what the bank  had told Mr L taken together.  There was, in my view, no calculation by the 
bank to deceive in those  representations, and more  importantly no conscious knowledge or 
recklessness as to the falsity of the impressions it reasonably gave  G about  the relationship 
between LIBOR and the reference rate.  
However, I do consider  there was a degree of carelessness resulting in a lack of overall 
clarity in the way some of the documents were expressed and how they might  as a result  be 
interpreted.  So it is therefore relevant for me to consider what  would have happened but for 
them (in other words,  would G have otherwise been induced to enter  the contract?). 
This is an important point because, even if I had come to a different view on how Clydesdale 
represented the underlying nature of the reference  rate to G, and whether or not the 
reference rate was represented as being  correlated  to or otherwise directly  linked to a 
Ref: DRN215838619LIBOR benchmark, I do not consider that this materially  influenced Gs decision to take out 
the Tailored Business Loan on the terms that it did.  
I say this because,  whilst taking careful note of all the submissions I have received from G, 
I consider the partnership  was drawn  to a combination of factors  relating both to its dealings 
with its existing bank  and its financial requirements,  and its view of the future which led it 
firstly to change banks and then to accept the fixed-rate Tailored Business Loan at an initial 
fixed rate of 7.19%.  The way the reference  rate was represented and calculated did not, in 
my view, have an over-riding influence at the time on whether G would enter  into the 
transaction.  Rather,  the key point was the known overall fixed rate of 7.19%.  Indeed, and 
as G makes clear, the partnership was still actively considering a variable rate loan until 
close to the time it decided to take out a fixed-rate loan  no doubt comparing costs  and 
relative advantages  of both options,  but ultimately settling on the fixed rate of 7.19%. 
In my opinion, G most likely decided to take out its loan because the known fixed rate of 
7.19% seemed like a good deal (not just in terms of the actual rate but also  and, in my 
view, importantly  because of the security it would bring G in respect of certainty of 
repayments).  The relationship between LIBOR and the reference rate  however described 
 was not, in my opinion, likely to have induced G to enter into the contract above all other 
relevant factors.  I am on balance persuaded, therefore, that G would have  made the same 
decision to take the loan on the terms it did had the nature of the reference  rate and its 
actual association with LIBOR been  described  more clearly and/or  more consistently.  
2.Alleged misrepresentation by way of the non-disclosure of the hidden margin/additional  
income element  within  the reference  rate
As I have previously said, Clydesdale has accepted that it did, as a matter of routine, add 
what it describes as an additional income element to the rate produced  by the bank rate 
curve for the relevant  amount and period in order to arrive at the reference rate, or 
underlying fixed  rate for a fixed rate Tailored Business Loan.
  
Here, Mr L is keen  to emphasise his view that we should always use his preferred terms of 
hidden margin and fixed  rate, rather than the banks terms of additional income element 
and reference  rate.  I understand  why he takes  this view, but I am nevertheless satisfied  
that, in reaching  my conclusions on the overall  complaint no bias arises in favour of either 
party from the use of one or other  set of descriptors. 
Typically, a non-disclosure will not amount to a false statement of fact for the purposes of a 
misrepresentation claim in law.  Taking  that into account I would not find it fair or reasonable 
to make a finding of misrepresentation  by Clydesdale for the non-disclosure of the additional 
income element , unless  some exception to this applied.   
I understand that G considers there was a duty to disclose the additional margin  in line with 
a duty to treat customers fairly and provide clear, fair, and not misleading information.  But, 
as I have previously set out, beyond Clydesdale being clear  about the actual reference rate 
of 5.67% (about which there is no dispute)  I do not consider there  was a duty to break the 
reference rate down  such that it revealed the constituent elements of how that rate was 
constructed (including disclosing the hidden margin/additional income element).  
Because I find there was no such duty, I am not persuaded  this is an exceptional  case where 
the pure non-disclosure of that element of the reference rate should be taken as a false 
statement of fact.  Furthermore, I am not convinced that a general overarching  duty on 
Clydesdale to act in a clear,  fair, and not misleading  way extends so as to imply that the 
Ref: DRN215838620bank ought to have disclosed the additional income  element within  the reference rate.  
Neither do I consider  that the unfair relationship provisions of consumer credit  legislation, 
which I acknowledge do apply to the facts of this complaint, have the effect  of making that 
non-disclosure an act rendering the relationship between G and Clydesdale an unfair  one. 
However, I am conscious of there being  other exceptions  to the general rule where other 
representations may have  been  made by Clydesdale which gave  a false impression as to 
something which has not been  disclosed such that what is true is distorted.  I have 
considered whether there were  other  representations made  by Clydesdale  that would have 
reasonably distorted Gs impression of the nature  of the reference rate such that it was 
implied by Clydesdale that there was no hidden margin.  One point  I have thought about is 
whether Clydesdales disclosure of what  it described  as a margin, and which  was negotiated 
between the parties  (1.5%),  would likely have reasonably implied to G that the reference  
rate contained no further margin.
A key point raised  by G in its further  submissions is that, by describing the basis  of that rate 
in the way it did, Clydesdale represented it as a cost of funds  i.e., a market  rate beyond  
the banks control  as was [Gs] existing arrangement with the variable rate. G adds that, as 
a result and in its view,  the only area for negotiation was the margin .  This point also goes 
to my consideration of representations  as to the negotiability of the margin.  
I do not consider  it could  be reasonably  implied to G from the reference to a negotiated 
disclosed margin of 1.5% that there was no other element of profit within  the interest rate 
elsewhere (such as we now know was added within the reference  rate).  While Clydesdale  
explained that the 1.5% margin was the only element of the interest rate that was negotiable, 
in doing so I do not consider it reasonably implied  the non-existence of the additional 
income element.  
As far as the allegation of misrepresentation as to the non-disclosure/implied representations  
about the existence of an additional income  element are concerned, I do not find 
Clydesdale to have  made any false statement of fact.  It is therefore not necessary for me to 
consider the other elements of that allegation  of misrepresentation. 
3.Alleged misrepresentation (or misrepresentations) as to the negotiability of the margin  
being limited to the disclosed margin of 1.5%
As I have just explained, I do not consider that the reference rate was ever presented  as 
anything other than non-negotiable, and the declared margin  was the limit of what  was in 
fact negotiable between G and Clydesdale.   That  was the true position,  so I dont consider 
Clydesdale to have  made a false statement of fact as far as negotiability of the interest rate 
was concerned. 
In my view, I consider it reasonable that a borrower   especially one, like Mr L, who was 
previously only familiar with base-rate related  borrowing  where that rate is freely  available  
would have understood not only that the reference rate was not open to negotiation but that 
it was a rate related to the market (whether  or not that was a LIBOR  benchmark).  Again, 
I  have found there was no false statement  of fact as to the negotiability of the margin, and 
therefore no misrepresentation by Clydesdale to be considered in further detail.
4.Alleged misrepresentation (or misrepresentations) as to likely movements in interest 
rates at around  the time G took out its Tailored Business  Loan  
Ref: DRN215838621Mr Ls recollection is that the bank told him that interest rates  were  on the way up when he 
considers it knew (or should have known)  they were falling.  On  this, there is no doubt  that 
interest rates were falling at the time.   Mr L acknowledges he knew that; indeed,  he had 
seen the effect  of recent reductions  on Gs variable rate loan with its existing bank such that, 
by the time the partnership took out its fixed rate Tailored Business Loan it was paying 
7.00% on that loan (in contrast to the new total fixed rate of 7.19% from Clydesdale).  
I am happy to accept  that Mr L and Clydesdale  had a discussion about how interest  rates 
might move.  In  fact, I think thats very likely  not least because one of the primary reasons 
for taking  out a fixed rate loan is to provide protection against possible future interest rate 
rises, especially over a lengthy period  such as 10 years.  I further accept that it is possible 
for misrepresentation to be made out in this regard if I were to find that Clydesdale 
misrepresented its true opinion about the future  direction  of interest  rates (as opposed to 
providing a mere opinion).
But the question  of future interest rate movements is an inherently  uncertain matter, as 
I believe both the bank and Mr L would have  been  well aware.   So whether or not 
Clydesdale did wrongly suggest to Mr L that its view was that interest rates would  rise when,  
in reality, the bank  thought they were going  to fall, I consider it equally as likely that Mr L will 
have known that different commentators have different views on such  matters, none of which  
can necessarily be regarded as more authoritative than any other. 
So, in my view, this really  comes back to the choice  before Mr L at the time, which was to 
take a view about whether  over a 10-year period  a fixed  rate of 7.19% seemed like a 
good deal  (not just in terms of the actual rate but also  and, in my view, importantly  the 
security it would bring G in respect of certainty of repayments).   After  very careful 
consideration and on balance I find I am unable to accept that but for anything the bank 
might have said about likely near/medium-term movements in interest rates, whether 
upwards or downwards and after taking account of what he already  knew, is likely  of itself 
 to have been a determining factor when Mr L made the decision to commit G to a fixed  
rate rather  than continue  with a variable rate.
The 2014  Settlement Agreement
G considers that the settlement agreement reached in 2014 should be set aside.  The  other 
matters covered by it were concluded not on the basis  of a full tear-up of the loan 
agreement (that is, substituting it with a variable  rate alternative) but, instead, replacing the 
10-year fixed term with a 5-year  term.  G adds it was always in contemplation that if the 
remaining hidden margin aspect of the overall  complaint was upheld  the settlement would 
fall away.  That settlement was reached after the original complaint was referred to this 
Service, and it was in part facilitated by our adjudicator at the time.
When options were being  discussed  a full tear up was considered  alongside the alternative 
of a shorter fixed rate period.  The adjudicator noted that both achieved  the objective of no 
break costs , because  by then more than five years had passed  since G took out its Tailored 
Business Loan.   The  adjudicator ultimately recommended  the complaint be settled on the 
basis of a shorter fixed rate period, which the partnership  later accepted.   
 
By the time of that settlement Mr L clearly felt he was right about the hidden  margin; if he 
didnt, I consider it unlikely he would have  wanted  to continue the complaint about that one 
remaining issue.  But, nevertheless, Mr L accepted  a settlement of the remainder of Gs 
Ref: DRN215838622complaint not on the basis of substituting the 10-year fixed  rate with a variable rate but, 
instead, a shorter-term fixed rate  which, by implication, also entailed a hidden  margin. 
 
Having carefully considered all the evidence, in my view its likely Mr L did so because this 
achieved what appears to have been  his principal aim at the time  that is, for G to be 
released from any early repayment  charge arising from the break cost clause within  the 
agreement and so be free to refinance  its borrowing without that additional cost. 
In other  words, I dont  find the argument made now  about  the only compliant alternative to 
the fixed rate G accepted in 2008 being  a variable rate (with or without a cap)  to be strong 
enough to over-ride,  in these particular and individual circumstances, the decision Mr L 
made in 2014  to settle all other  aspects  in the way that he did.  He  did so not on the basis 
that the partnership would  have  kept its existing facilities with its former bank or that they 
would have been on variable rate terms, but that G transferred  them to Clydesdale and  in 
particular  that it would have taken  out a shorter-term fixed rate loan.
Putting this another way, the 2014  settlement  has not prevented  me from considering the 
complaint about  the hidden margin (this having  been carved  out of that earlier settlement).   
But because I have  not found there to have been a misrepresentation by Clydesdale  in 
respect of the underlying reference  rate, and have concluded that G made  the decision to 
take out its Tailored Business Loan  on the terms it did for a broader set of reasons, it is not 
necessary for me to consider the impact of that agreement on my determination, whether 
that would  involve disregarding the settlement agreement  or taking it into account for the 
purposes of any redress under this determination were I upholding the substantive  elements  
of the complaint. 
  
As I have already  noted, before I issued my second  provisional decision Clydesdale made a 
commercial and without  prejudice offer to settle the complaint by writing  off Gs debt 
together with Mr L and Mrs Ls personal guarantee obligations in respect of F  in total,  
£178,783.20  and releasing any security provided by Mr L and Mrs L in support of those 
facilities/guarantee liabilities. The banks action in sharing the likely  basis of its offer with me 
a short  while before it presented it to G had no effect  on my opinion of it.  I doubt the bank 
thought it might, or that it was attempting to coach me about  it.  
I also recognise that Mr L not only rejected  that offer but questioned some aspects of what it 
was actually worth.  Clydesdale has, however, since  said that the offer remains open  (on 
the same  principles as before, subject only to the figures being brought up-to-date).  
Moreover, the stated  value of the banks  offer when it was made exceeded our applicable 
award limit of £150,000, so it seems  likely  that any recalculation to bring the figures  up-to-
date will continue to do so.  
Clydesdales offer did not expressly incorporate a sum to reflect the inconvenience and 
distress I previously  identified arising  from the bank not clarifying  to Mr L and Mrs L over the 
years how the reference rate for Gs loan was actually  calculated.  I still consider they 
should be compensated for this, because  the bank knew G was pursuing its complaint  based 
on a misunderstanding  of how fixed rates were calculated yet it did not  until much  more 
recently  clarify the true position.  
Having regard to the general level of awards  we make I remain of the view that £3,000 is a 
fair sum  which the bank has, of course,  previously agreed to pay.  But  the banks offer was 
made without acceptance  of liability  on a commercial  basis,  and it exceeds our award  limit.  
So if Mr L and Mrs L decide  to accept the banks offer I would not add anything further to it.  
Ref: DRN215838623However, if they do not accept the banks  offer I consider that Clydesdale should 
nevertheless pay this £3,000 compensation.  
Furthermore, because of the dissolution of the partnership and Mr Ls sequestration I accept 
that any payment  can only be made to Mr L and Mrs L in a way that both recognises Mr Ls 
sequestration and any relevant interest of the trustee in bankruptcy.   It will be for the bank, 
Mr L, and Mrs L to liaise between themselves  (taking any advice, if appropriate) to ensure 
that the payment is made in a way that satisfies the current position and these interests.
Conclusions
I am not persuaded that Clydesdale made  any of the alleged  misrepresentations to the 
extent that G was induced to take out its Tailored Business Loan with the bank  on the terms 
it did when it would  not otherwise have done  so.  However, Clydesdale  should pay £3,000  
compensation for distress and inconvenience  for the reasons explained  above,  unless Mr L 
and Mrs L accept Clydesdales separate commercial offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not uphold the substantive  elements  of Gs complaint.  
However, as set out above  and if Mr L and Mrs L do not accept the banks settlement offer 
 I consider that Clydesdale  Bank  PLC should pay Mr L and Mrs L compensation of £3,000  
in a manner, as described above,  to recognise Mr Ls sequestration and also to protect any 
relevant interest  of the trustee in bankruptcy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Mrs L, 
as the former partners  in G, to accept or reject my decision before 27 October  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2158386