K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about his mortgage  with Santander  UK Plc. Hes been in dispute with 
Santander for a number  of years, but this complaint  focusses on events since  April 2018.  
Mr J says he was unable  to maintain his mortgage  payments  due to ill health and asked for 
Santander to make a reasonable adjustment, which it didnt do. He says its in breach of the 
Equality Act. He also wants  it to agree to allow him to port his mortgage  to another property,  
which he says it has agreed to in the past.
background
Mr J has been a mortgage customer of Santander  for many years. Unfortunately  Mr J 
became unwell with mental health  conditions some  years ago, which has affected  his ability  
to work and in turn to maintain the mortgage. For some time arrears  built up. In 2016,  Mr J 
began legal  proceedings against Santander  over how it had treated him up to that time. He 
said it had breached the Equality Act and its duty of care to him, which  had worsened his 
health conditions  and caused him loss and damage.  Santander does  not accept this, and 
has defended  the court claim. 
The claim has not progressed for some  time,  but does remain  active. In attempts to resolve 
the issues, Mr J and Santander have been  in correspondence, both directly  and through 
lawyers. Mr J has also met with senior  members of Santander staff and others. In an attempt  
to resolve the dispute, Santander agreed to capitalise Mr Js arrears and reduce his interest  
rate. Santander says it also agreed  to consider porting the mortgage to another  property  
Mr J says the agreement  was to port, not to consider porting.
All parties  accept that these events, and the court claim  itself,  are outside the scope of this 
complaint. But this complaint occurs against  that background.  This complaint is only about 
whats happened since April 2018. Its about more recent financial difficulty, and about 
whether Santander  will agree  to allow Mr J to port now.
Following the capitalisation,  Mr J maintained his monthly payments for a time.  But in April 
2018 he began to be unwell again. He wrote to Santander asking it to make  a reasonable 
adjustment. He asked  it not to collect his mortgage payment. And he asked for £25,000 
further borrowing  to pay off other loans. Santander  said it was unwilling to lend Mr J any 
more money. 
Over the following months,  Mr J became unable to work or pay his mortgage.  He missed 
payments in May and September 2018, and has not made any further  payments since  
January 2019.
He wrote again to Santander asking for it not to collect his monthly payments as a 
reasonable adjustment, and to request  further  borrowing. For the same  reason, he also 
wanted it to remove  the reports  of arrears from his credit file. He said its failure to do so was 
worsening his condition, with serious consequences. 
Mr J complained to us. He said Santander  should have a policy in place for granting 
reasonable adjustments in his situation.  He said it should have  assisted him when  he first 
wrote to it in April 2018  and if it had done so, he would  have been able to recover  and 
return to work sooner.  He wanted Santander  to compensate him for his lost earnings and the 
distress he had experienced.  He wanted  it to remove adverse information  from his credit file. 
And he wanted it to agree  to port his mortgage  to a new property. 
Ref: DRN20947192After our investigator got involved, Santander  looked again at Mr Js situation. It agreed  that, 
in the particular circumstances of his case,  it would agree  to capitalise the payments missed 
since April 2018  extending that concession  to December  2019.  That means that Mr J is not 
required to make any payments until January 2020  though  the payments missed in the 
meantime are being added to his mortgage balance each month. Santander also offered to 
amend Mr Js credit file so that it didnt show any missed payments or arrears since  April 
2018, as each payment would be capitalised as soon as it fell due. And it agreed to pay him 
£500 compensation.
But Santander didnt  think allowing  Mr J to port his mortgage was the right thing to do. It said 
that while he wasnt working he had no income.  It wasnt willing to increase the level of 
borrowing. And even  when he was working, his salary is lower now than when  the mortgage 
was taken out  so the balance is over ten times his income. It would consider an application  
to port, but only after carrying out a full affordability assessment and only on the basis that 
any ported  balance met its affordability  requirements  based on his current  finances.  It said 
that, in the alternative,  it would support  him to sell the property allowing him to realise the 
equity and move on from a mortgage that was causing him distress.
Mr J said Santander should write  off the missing payments since  April 2018 and clear his 
credit file. He wanted it to agree to port his mortgage  in advance and in full, so that he could 
then look for a property.  He said it had an obligation to make  reasonable adjustments   and 
a duty to pre-emptively consider what he might need, not sit back and wait to be asked. He 
wanted compensation for his loss of earnings because,  he said,  he was unable  to work 
because of Santanders actions. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to set out my initial thoughts on the case  and invite comment  
from the parties. My provisional findings are attached to the end of, and form part of, this 
decision. But in summary I said:
In view of the court  case, which is about  earlier issues between Mr J and 
Santander, I am only considering things that have  happened  since  April 2018, 
which both parties  accept.
I set out my understanding of the Equality Act and the law relating to 
reasonable adjustments, noting  what the courts had said in a previous case  
involving a borrower with a disability experiencing financial difficulty.
I also set out my understanding of the rules of mortgage regulation dealing 
with financial hardship.
I noted that Mr Js situation was complex. And so was the history of his 
relationship with Santander. This affected how quickly and effectively it was 
able to assist  him when  he first asked for help in April 2018.
Santander should have discussed his situation with Mr J. I thought  the only 
realistic option that could have been  considered was some  kind of payment 
arrangement. These discussions  could  have happened more  quickly and 
Santander could,  initially, have done  more  to help Mr J.
But once  our investigator got involved, Santander agreed to a payment 
arrangement whereby  it would  not collect the monthly payments at all until 
December 2019. And it would capitalise them each month as they fell due, so 
that Mr J would not fall into arrears  and no arrears marker would appear on 
Ref: DRN20947193his credit file. It backdated this arrangement  to April 2018. It also agreed to 
pay Mr J £500 compensation.
While  I considered that it could initially have done more, I thought this was a 
fair arrangement, and a fair way to put things right. I said that it showed  that 
Santander had considered Mr Js particular and individual situation, and put in 
place an arrangement which went beyond what it would normally  offer and 
beyond its usual  policy. I thought this was a fair adjustment to its usual  
processes to take account of Mr Js circumstances.
I then considered whether Santander  should  allow Mr J to port his mortgage.
I noted the rules  of mortgage regulation, particularly around  the assessment 
of affordability when a mortgage is varied or replaced, which are to be found 
in MCOB 11.6.3.
I noted that there were arguments  in favour  of allowing Mr J to port, and 
arguments against. 
In favour  of allowing Mr J to port is that his current living  arrangements  are 
having an impact on his health  and, he believes, are the primary factor 
standing in the way of his recovery,  ability to resume work and ability  to start 
paying the mortgage again.
Against requiring Santander to allow the port is the risk that Mr J still wouldnt 
be able to get the mortgage back on track, having incurred substantial costs  
in the meantime  as well as the risk to Santander of agreeing to a new 
mortgage in a situation where he wasnt managing to pay his current  one. 
And Santander also pointed to the fact that even when he is working, Mr J 
earns less than he did before and wouldnt qualify for a mortgage  of this 
amount as a new borrower. Santander didnt  think it was in Mr Js best 
interests for him to port the mortgage without carrying out a full affordability 
assessment and continue with a mortgage  he was unable to manage.
I said that I didnt think  MCOB 11.6.3 required Santander to carry out an 
affordability assessment.  But that doesnt mean it has to let Mr J port. It must 
act fairly, taking into account his best interests. And I also have to be fair to 
Santander, including recognising the risk to it of the port going  ahead.
I thought Santanders concerns about  the long term sustainability  of Mr Js 
mortgage were reasonable. Santander  is currently offering forbearance while  
Mr J cant pay his mortgage   but that cant continue forever and if he doesnt 
resume making payments  the point will come where its no longer possible to 
get things back  on track. That might  lead to further  action, up to and including 
repossession. And the current forbearance  arrangement only runs up to 
December 2019.
While  I hope that doesnt happen, I have to recognise it as a real possibility. If 
Mr J isnt able to get back to work, and resume making payments, its difficult 
to see what more  Santander can reasonably be expected to do to assist him.
But theres a real possibility that moving  out of his current  property, with all its 
history and associations,  will have a significant positive effect on Mr J  
allowing him to recover enough to resume work and resume  the mortgage 
payments. When he was working previously,  he was able to pay the 
mortgage  demonstrating  that it was affordable for him, even if he wouldnt 
pass a full affordability assessment.
I carefully balanced the factors  for and against, while taking into account what  
the rules do and dont  require.  
I noted that while there is a real risk associated with this mortgage, thats a 
risk that both parties already  face. If the balance, term and loan to value were 
Ref: DRN20947194all to remain the same or reduce as part of porting, I didnt  think  the risk would 
increase compared  to what it is now.
On the other hand, if Mr J ports theres a real possibility  that he will be able to 
get the mortgage back on track.
This is an unusual and difficult case.  But taking  everything into account,  I 
thought it was fair that Santander  allow Mr J to port his mortgage  with no 
further borrowing, and no increase  to the loan to value,  among other  
conditions. This is, in the particular  and very individual circumstances of this 
case, a last resort  for forbearance, and should be strictly time limited.  
Santander should allow the current forbearance  arrangements to continue for 
a limited period  to allow Mr J to find a property and complete  a purchase.  But 
if a port doesnt  go ahead,  or it does and Mr J still isnt able to resume  
payments, Santander will then need to consider whether the mortgage is 
sustainable or whether further action  is needed.   
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr J said Santanders failure  to assist him since April 2018 had caused  him substantial 
distress and worsened his health condition, with a particular impact on him. He said it was 
responsible for him being unable to work, and he wanted it to compensate him for his lost 
earnings since then.  He said Santander  had agreed  to consider porting in both 2017 and 
May 2018, only to withdraw that later in 2018  and in 2019  and this caused further distress. 
Mr J was also concerned about  what interest  rate would apply to his mortgage once the 
current one expires in 2020. He referred to Santanders duty under MCOB 13.3.1C to have 
policies to assist  vulnerable customers, as well as its anticipatory duty under the Equality 
Act. He said it should be directed to share its policy  though he doesnt think it has one  
which would show that it failed to assist him as it should have done. In April 2018 he asked  
for a payment  holiday  so he wouldnt have to make  his payment and wouldnt have  arrears  
recorded on his credit file. If it had done what it was supposed to do at that point,  everything  
thats happened since wouldnt have happened. And he set out some  further  detail about  his 
future plans.
Santander said there were significant  risks  for both parties  associated with what  Id 
proposed. It was concerned that if Mr J moved,  incurring significant  costs in doing  so, and 
was still unable to get the mortgage back on track, he could be in a worse position should  
repossession be necessary than if he hadnt moved.  
Santander pointed  out that the ongoing capitalisation increases the mortgage balance each 
month. Once  the current arrangement ends,  it will expect monthly payments to be re-started 
 and if theyre not, it will resume collections activity and treat any missed  payments as 
arrears. If an acceptable way forward cant then be agreed, theres a risk that repossession 
will follow.  It wouldnt be in Mr Js best interests  for that to happen  shortly  after moving house 
and having reduced his equity on the costs of doing so. And, as the balance is currently 
increasing each  month,  the monthly  payments Mr J will be required to pay when the 
arrangement ends are going up too.
Santander didnt  think there was evidence  that Mr J was able to sustain the mortgage  when  
he was in work, based on the history of the mortgage over recent years.  It pointed  out that 
he was in arrears for much of the period  between  2010 and 2017. And he was only able to 
Ref: DRN20947195maintain payments for just under  a year following the 2017  capitalisation  before problems 
began again. It was concerned that even  if Mr J did manage to move, he wouldnt be able to 
get the mortgage back on track. It said it would be better for porting not to happen until Mr J 
had been able to demonstrate he could afford the mortgage by making  payments for say six 
months.
Santander also said that it would give greater certainty for both parties  if I were  to set out a 
specific figure for the maximum loan to value of any ported mortgage and therefore  a 
minimum percentage deposit.
Santander didnt  agree with what I said about  MCOB 11.6.3  R. It said it didnt think that was 
a relevant consideration because of the effect  of 11.6.4 E. And it didnt think 11.6.3 R applied 
where the mortgage hasnt been performing and affordability hasnt been demonstrated  its 
purpose is to ensure  that customers who have been  maintaining their mortgage, but might 
not pass a full affordability assessment,  still had options. And it considered that the ongoing 
capitalisation amounts to a change in the terms of the mortgage.
It said MCOB 11.6.4 E gives  non-exhaustive  examples  of changes that could be material  
to affordability.  Mr Js income had reduced  since taking out the mortgage. He currently  has 
no income. And the ongoing capitalisation was a change that was material to affordability  
because it results in the contractual  payment increasing each  month. Capitalisation of this 
amount is considered material in MCOB 13.3.4AA,  and so there has been  a material 
change to the mortgage contract. Santander  said that if I didnt agree with its view of the 
rules, I should set out a detailed analysis explaining  why.
It also said that the rules  had to be considered in light of the over-riding requirement to act 
fairly taking  into account the best interests of the customer. And it didnt  think porting was in 
Mr Js best interests or likely to result  in fair treatment.  
Santander said that if it remained my decision that porting was appropriate it would appoint a 
single named contact  to work with Mr J. He would  need to go through  a full application, 
which would help give him guidance on porting as well as explain exactly what was involved. 
And it said that if Mr J didnt have any strategy  for paying back the capital at the end of the 
interest only term, he would need to sign a declaration that he would be prepared  to sell the 
property at that point  to repay the balance. And it suggested that Mr J should give regular 
updates, say once a month, on his progress  with the sale and purchase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the application of MCOB 11.6.3
In my provisional decision,  I set out my understanding of the Equality Act and how it applies 
to this case, so I wont repeat that here.  Its one of the factors that Im required to take into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, though as I said 
its not for me to make definitive findings  on questions of law; thats a matter for the courts.
I also discussed my view of other  relevant considerations, including setting out my view that 
MCOB 11.6.3 was relevant here.  As Santander  doesnt agree, I think  its worth  setting  out 
my thoughts in more  detail, including quoting the rules in full.
Ref: DRN20947196MCOB 11.6.2 R says 
Except as provided in MCOB  11.6.3 R  before entering into, or agreeing to vary, a 
regulated mortgage  contract  a firm must assess whether the customer   will be 
able to pay the sums due
Exactly how the affordability assessment is to be done is set out in more detail in later parts  
of 11.6.
MCOB 11.6.3 R says:
(1)MCOB 11.6.2 R does  not apply to:
(a) entering into a new regulated mortgage  contract or home purchase plan as a 
replacement for an existing regulated mortgage contract or home  purchase  plan 
between the customer  and the firm (either as the original mortgage  lender or 
home purchase plan provider or as the transferee  of the existing contract), 
whether or not the new contract relates  to the same property; or
(b) a variation of an existing regulated  mortgage contract or home purchase plan
Provided the conditions in (2) are satisfied
(2)The conditions referred  to in (1) are that:
(a)The proposed  new or varied regulated mortgage  contract or home purchase 
plan would not involve the customer taking on additional borrowing  beyond 
the amount currently outstanding under the existing regulated mortgage 
contract or home  purchase plan,  other  than to finance any product fee or 
arrangement fee for the proposed  new or varied  contract;
(b)There is no change to the terms of the regulated mortgage contract or home 
purchase plan which  is likely to be material to affordability.
(3)MCOB 11.6.2 R does  not apply to a variation to the terms of a regulated 
mortgage contract or home purchase plan which is made  solely for the purposes 
of forbearance  where  the customer has a payment shortfall or in order  to avoid a 
payment shortfall.
MCOB 11.6.4 E says:
(1)If a firm treats any of the following changes as not likely to be material to 
affordability, this may be relied upon  as tending to show contravention of MCOB 
11.6.2 R:
(a)An extension of the term of the regulated  mortgage contract or home 
purchase plan which  it is reasonable  to expect will extend  into (or further into) 
the customers retirement; or
(b)Changing from a repayment mortgage  to an interest-only mortgage, or vice 
versa; or
(c)The addition or removal  of a customer
(2)The list in (1) is not exhaustive.
Ref: DRN20947197In MCOB, the suffix R denotes a rule, while G is guidance and E is an evidential provision  
that sets out the sort of evidence that may show compliance with or breach of the rules.
My understanding of 11.6.3 is that, in principle, it applies in this case  since the complaint is 
about porting,  which is the replacement of an existing mortgage contract with a new one 
between the same customer and firm, secured on a different property.  Thats within  the 
scope of 11.6.3 R (1) (a). So this is a relevant consideration for me to take into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Santander says in practice 11.6.3  isnt relevant because the conditions in 11.6.3 (2) arent 
satisfied. In particular,  it says, there have been  changes to the terms of the contract which  
are material  to affordability,  namely:
Mr Js income  has reduced materially since the mortgage was taken  out, and his 
current employment status and income are unclear;
There has been a poor payment history;
There has been capitalisation, both in 2017  and monthly since  April 2018  the level 
of capitalisation  is defined as material in MCOB 13.3.4AA and has resulted  in a 
material increase in the balance   of almost  £38,000 of arrears  in 2017 and of around 
£950 per month more  recently.
As Ive set out above, the conditions in 11.6.3  (2) are that the proposed new contract  would 
not involve the taking  on of additional borrowing beyond the amount currently outstanding; 
and that there is no change to the terms of the regulated mortgage contractwhich is likely 
to be material to affordability.
I dont think any of the factors Santander  refers  to mean that the conditions  in 11.6.3 (2) 
arent met. The rule refers  to the amount currently outstanding. I think currently, in the 
context, means the balance as at the date the old mortgage is replaced by a new one. So I 
dont think the fact that there have been past capitalisations means  this condition is not met.
The other factors Santander refers to go to the second condition  in 11.6.3 (2)  whether 
there is a change to the terms which is likely  to be material  to affordability. Dealing  with the 
capitalisations first, Santander  says they are material in terms of the test in 11.6.3 (2) (b). It 
relies on MCOB  13.3.4AA R in support of what it says. This rule says
In MCOB 13.3.4A  R, the impact of a capitalisation  would be material if, either on its 
own or taken together with previous automatic capitalisations, it increased:
(1)The interest payable  over the term of the regulated  mortgage  contract  by £50 or 
more; or
(2)The contractual monthly  repayment amount under the regulated  mortgage  
contract by £1 or more
I dont think this is a relevant matter in this case. The definition of materiality in 13.3.4AA R is 
for the purpose  of the use of that word  in 13.3.4A R, not more widely. This is a different rule, 
operating in a different context, to 11.6.3 R. There might be situations where its relevant for 
the purposes of 11.6.3 R, but I dont  think this is one of them. 
And, in any case,  I think its clear  from the wider  context of the rule that the conditions are to 
be applied  at the point of entry into or variation of the mortgage  and prior capitalisations 
happened at earlier times than that.
Ref: DRN20947198So while Ive considered everything  Santander has to say in this respect, Im satisfied  that 
11.6.3 is a relevant consideration  here,  and I think  Santander can allow porting to go ahead 
without needing  to carry out a full detailed affordability assessment.
I think Santander does,  however,  make some powerful points  and while I dont think they 
affect the applicability of 11.6.3 R, nothing in that rule says that an application has to be 
granted. Affordability is only one factor in that decision  and I agree with Santander  that the 
overriding principle set out in MCOB 2.5A applies.  I think the points  Santander makes  go 
more to the overall context of the application and whether its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances    and in Mr Js best interests   for it to go ahead, and its in that context  that I 
think they carry most weight.
I discussed in my provisional  decision my reasons for concluding porting was, on balance, 
fair and reasonable and in Mr Js best interests  and Ill now turn to that question  again.
is porting a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint?
MCOB 2.5A.1 R says 
A firm must act honestly, fairly  and professionally  in accordance with the best 
interests of its customer
As Ive explained, the rules are one of the factors  I take into account  in determining  whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case. And I think  this rule stresses  again 
that whats required is fair treatment  bearing in mind Mr Js best interests.
Santander says,  as Ive set out above, that it doesnt think porting would be in Mr Js best 
interests  at least, not in advance of him being  able to resume payments and show  a history 
of affordability.
I think there is some recent evidence of Mr J being able to afford the mortgage. Following 
the capitalisation in 2017, he was able to maintain the mortgage payments for just under a 
year before becoming  unwell again in April 2018,  and he made some payments thereafter 
too, stopping altogether  later in 2018.  I think this does show that, when hes well and able to 
work, Mr J was able to afford the mortgage. I take Santanders point about the history  up to 
2017  and that, as a result this is not a mortgage that has been  performing over the long 
term. But I think what the evidence shows is that Mr J is potentially able to sustain the 
mortgage when  hes well  but cant when he isnt. 
Theres a clear difference between the parties  here. On the one hand, Santander doesnt  
want to consider porting until Mr J has resumed payments  and, ideally, maintained  them 
for at least six months. On the other hand, Mr J says he wont be able to resume payments 
until hes ported as staying in the same property  is hindering his recovery. These are 
irreconcilable positions. 
Ive thought very carefully about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This 
isnt a straightforward case.  In my view its a very difficult and finely balanced decision that I 
have to make. I set out many  of the arguments  in my provisional decision, and I dont think 
either party has brought significant new arguments  since then  rather, existing positions 
have been re-stated.
Ref: DRN20947199If Mr J ports  his mortgage, there are some  very real risks and difficulties. There will be 
considerable costs   the costs of selling his old property, stamp  duty on the new purchase,  
moving costs, legal fees, and more. I think Santanders right that these costs  are likely to be 
in excess of £20,000  and theyll have  to come out of the equity Mr J has in his current 
property.
If Mr J ports  and isnt able to get the mortgage  back on track,  hes likely to face significant  
difficulties. I said in my provisional decision that the forbearance Santanders now offered 
goes significantly beyond  what it would normally offer customers in financial difficulty. While 
its fair that it took Mr Js particular circumstances into account in deciding  what  to do, this 
form of forbearance  cant continue forever  not least because, while  it does, the mortgage 
balance and contractual payments are increasing  month by month. Given the long history  of 
Mr Js difficulties with managing the mortgage   the period between 2017 and 2018  apart   
its likely  that Santander would then consider taking further recovery  action. And if that 
comes shortly after a port, Mr J is likely  to be  financially speaking   in a worse position 
than he is now.
However, its possible that following a port Mr J will be able to get his mortgage back on 
track. He certainly believes  so and in light of his condition  and the wider  circumstances  I 
accept that its a reasonable possibility. I take Santanders point that it would be easier to be 
satisfied of that if Mr J had already shown that he could  do that for say six months leading  up 
to porting. I agree. But I think the reality  is that its unlikely that will happen.
And I think its clear that if Mr J isnt able to move out of his property, its unlikely he will 
recover sufficiently to return  to work  and resume the mortgage payments in the near future. 
As the current forbearance ends at the end of this year,  it is in my view very likely that 
Santander will resume collection activity in the new year  and if Mr J still isnt able to pay his 
mortgage, things  are likely to move to recovery action within a few months.
So if Mr J ports his mortgage  to a new property, he might be able to get things back  on track 
 but he might not, and could be in a worse position  if he doesnt. And if he doesnt  port, its 
much more likely  that he wont be able to get back on track, and will be facing  repossession 
at some point next year. Porting  is likely to reduce the chances of that happening,  but could 
worsen the consequences if it does. 
Ive given these  competing considerations careful consideration to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Theres a real risk to Mr J here. If he ports and still cant 
resume payments  and the mortgage is brought to an end  hell be in a worse  position 
than if that happens without porting. But if porting does work, hell be able to move  forward to 
recovery with a mortgage he can potentially sustain. Im very aware of the risks involved  and 
have thought very carefully about  them. Having done so, and on balance,  Im satisfied that  
viewed as a last chance at forbearance  in his particular situation in this exceptional case   
porting his mortgage is in Mr Js best interests.
My duty to do whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances also includes the need  to 
be fair to Santander. Thats an important consideration too. For all the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision, I dont think  provided  the risks are mitigated through a clear time 
limit and a restriction on increased  loan to value  that the risk to Santander  of allowing a 
port to go through is such  that it would be unfair to require it. Ive set out above why I think 
its permissible under MCOB 11.6.3. And I set out in my provisional decision why  given all 
thats happened, as well as Mr Js very particular and individual circumstances  it would be 
fair for it to happen as a last chance at forbearance to give Mr J one final opportunity to get 
Ref: DRN209471910things back on track.  With appropriate safeguards, it can be done  without increasing the risk 
to Santander.  I still therefore  think that requiring Santander to allow  Mr J to port his mortgage  
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
But I agree  that there need  to be restrictions and safeguards on that, to protect  the position 
and best interests  of both parties.  
Mr J has shown me a recent  market  appraisal of his property.  He says he has an interested  
buyer, willing to pay the asking  price,  who is just waiting to sell their own property before 
making a formal offer. And he says that hes found another  property,  a new build, that he 
wants to buy  and that, as a back-up selling strategy, the developer  has a scheme whereby 
it takes over the sale of the buyers old property.  So hes confident  of achieving a sale in the 
near future.
As at the end of December 2019,  when the current forbearance ends,  Mr Js mortgage 
balance will be around £341,600. Mr Js market appraisal suggests  marketing  the property at 
£500,000 and he says he has an interested buyer at that price. Santander thinks the value is 
nearer £400,000, and on online platform suggests  its around £420,000.  Based on that 
range, Mr Js loan to value as at the end of December will be somewhere between 68% and 
85%. But its not possible to say precisely  what the property  is worth,  and so what the LTV 
is, until it sells. 
I agree  with Santander that its best to take the measure of loan to value as at the end of 
December 2019,  when the current forbearance ends. Although I intend to extend it, thats 
only for the purpose  of allowing the port to go through,  and I think  its important to mitigate as 
much as possible the impact of further capitalisation  on the equity, the loan balance  and the 
future monthly payments.
So I think that the amount Mr J should  be allowed to port to a new property should be no 
more than the loan to value as at the end of December 2019. And I think  Mr J should use the 
retained equity from the sale to keep the mortgage  balance as low as possible. He should 
use it to fund a deposit  on the new property.
I know Mr J has found a property he would like to buy. Whether that particular property is 
feasible will depend  on the sale price he achieves  for his existing property. Once he has 
accepted an offer, he will be able to calculate the loan to value he can port. He can do so by 
dividing the balance  as at 31 December 2019  - £341,600  by the offer price he accepts. 
That will tell him the maximum  percentage loan to value  and therefore the maximum 
mortgage  he will be able to take out on any new property.  And, in turn, that will tell him the 
maximum purchase price of any new property.
For example, if Mr J does manage to sell his property  for £500,000, the higher estimate:
The maximum loan to value will be £341,600 / £500,000 = 0.683, or 68.3%
Therefore the maximum loan to value on a new property would be 68.3%.
Mr J would get (£500,000 - £341,600) £158,400 equity from the sale. 
If costs of sale, purchase and moving are £25,000, this leaves £133,400  as a 
deposit, which must be at least 31.7% of the purchase price
Therefore the maximum purchase price of a new property  would be (£133,400 / 
0.317) = £420,800
Ref: DRN209471911The mortgage balance would reduce to no more than 68.3% of the purchase price  
a maximum of £287,400
But if Mr J sells his property for £400,000,  the lower estimate:
The maximum loan to value will be £341,600 / £400,000 = 0.854, or 85.4%
Therefore the maximum loan to value on a new property would be 85.4%.
Mr J would get (£400,000 - £341,600) £58,400 equity from the sale.  
If costs of sale, purchase and moving are £25,000, this leaves £33,400 as a deposit, 
which must be at least 14.6% of the purchase  price
Therefore the maximum purchase price of a new property  would be (£33,400  / 0.146)  
= £228,800
The mortgage balance would reduce to no more than 85.4% of the purchase price  
a maximum of £195,400
These examples  are for purposes of illustration. The actual  figures will depend on the sale 
price Mr J achieves. But what  they show is that the loan to value must remain the same or 
less, and how that influences the amount Mr J has available  to fund a purchase  bearing  in 
mind that Ive also said that the retained equity should be used as part of the purchase, not 
withdrawn for other purposes.
Mr J has a small secured loan as well as the mortgage. He says the secured lender is 
prepared to allow the loan to be moved  to a new property  but if thats  not the case and it 
has to be paid back as part of the sale that will further reduce the amount available  to buy a 
new property with.
If Mr J is able to increase the deposit through other means  such  as the help to buy 
scheme, if he buys a new build property and is otherwise  eligible  that would  increase  the 
amount available to buy a new property.  Though in view of his circumstances, and the risks 
Ive outlined above if porting doesnt  in the end assist his recovery, I would urge him to think 
very carefully indeed  before taking on additional  debt, even debt that doesnt require 
immediate monthly payments. And I think that even if this happens the retained  equity  
should still be used  towards the purchase  as well.
Indeed, I would urge Mr J to consider  buying  the cheapest property he reasonably can, as 
the more hes able to downsize the more hell be able to reduce the mortgage balance   and 
thereby reduce the future  monthly  payments. If things do go wrong in the future, and the 
mortgage doesnt prove sustainable, the more  equity  in both percentage and cash terms  
Mr J is left with, the better the position hell be in to move on from it.
This is an interest only mortgage, and in the absence  of any other repayment strategy Mr J 
will need  to be prepared  to sell the property at the end of the term, so should think  carefully  
about any commitment that will reduce the eventual equity available  to him. Santander  has 
said it will require  him to sign a declaration  to that effect as part of the porting process and I 
think thats fair.
Santander has agreed, if it is my final decision to require it to port Mr Js mortgage, that it will 
appoint a single point of contact to guide  Mr J through the process. That point of contact will 
be able to discuss with Mr J exactly whats required.  Mr J will need to co-operate with that 
process, which is likely to involve Santander  asking him for detailed information, and he may 
want to think about what support  he might need  while its going on. 
Ref: DRN209471912If Mr J doesnt  feel able to go through a porting application, Santander wont be able to port 
his mortgage.  The single  point of contact  should  get in touch  with Mr J as soon as possible 
after we notify  it that Mr J has accepted this decision  if he does  so that the process  can 
get started. I also think its reasonable for Santander  to expect regular updates  on his 
progress, and so I think Mr J should  update his single point of contact at least  once a month.  
I said in my provisional decision that the process should be completed by June  2020.  Time 
has passed since then.  And while I dont think it would be in anyones interest for the current 
forbearance arrangements  to continue longer than absolutely  necessary, I do think  a 
reasonable period will be needed to give Mr J the chance to port. I therefore intend to extend  
the porting period for two months, to August 2020, to reflect the passage  of time since  I first 
proposed allowing this to happen. 
I think leaving the original  deadline I proposed, the end of June,  runs the risk of Mr J not 
being able to complete in time, as six months is a very tight timescale  to sell one property 
and buy another.  But I agree with Santander  that its not in anyones  interest for this period 
of exceptional  forbearance to continue  for too long, especially as it involves the erosion of 
Mr Js remaining equity in the property. I think August strikes a fair balance between  
ensuring it happens quickly and allowing enough  time for it to happen at all.
Turning now to other matters raised  by Mr J, I said in my provisional decision  that Santander 
should have done more  when he contacted  it in April 2018.  But I dont have enough 
evidence to show that its failure  in this respect was the cause of Mr Js illness worsening 
over the following months. Its clear  that by the time he contacted  it in April he was already 
unwell and facing  difficulties.
I dont think theres persuasive  evidence  that Santander was the cause of what  happened in 
April 2018 either. I wont comment on what happened in 2016 and before, as thats the 
subject of the legal action.  But Im not persuaded, on the evidence before  me, that 
Santander caused Mr Js relapse in 2018,  or worsened, extended or prevented  his recovery  
from it thereafter. And for the same  reasons I dont think its responsible  for his lost earnings 
or needs to pay compensation  for them. Im still satisfied that £500  is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Im not concerned  with whether Santanders  internal policies comply  with MCOB or its legal 
obligations; thats a matter for the regulator.  What Im concerned  with is whether it treated 
Mr J fairly  and in line with its obligations, and whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances now, and thats what Ive set out in this decision. I dont think Santanders 
under any obligation to share its internal policies with Mr J as part of this complaint and I 
dont ask it to do so.
There is one unfortunate  matter thats  come up since my provisional decision. Santander 
sent Mr J a standard arrears letter in November 2019, telling him he was one month in 
arrears, was being charged a fee, and needed to contact Santander. In fact, he wasnt.  The 
current capitalisation arrangement was continuing. Santander has explained that its systems 
automatically generate  the letter when a payment isnt made, and its necessary in Mr Js 
case to manually override  that. Unfortunately that didnt  happen  in November. Mr J 
contacted me, and Santander, as soon  as he received the letter and was clearly  distressed 
by it. Santander  has apologised  for the distress receiving the letter caused Mr J and said its 
taken steps to ensure it doesnt  happen again.  I think thats a fair response in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN209471913Finally, I note Mr Js concern that his current interest rate is due to expire early next year.  
Santander has confirmed  that its willing to continue  the current  concessionary interest rate 
for a reasonable period. What happens thereafter will depend on the wider circumstances at 
the time,  but if Mr J is able to resume making payments, once hes been able to build up a 
track record hell be able to apply for one of Santanders standard  rates.  
In conclusion, then,  in the specific  circumstances  of this very difficult  and unusual  case, Ive 
considered everything  very carefully.  I recognise that Santander  has shown Mr J 
considerable forbearance and has gone  beyond what it would usually offer customers in 
financial difficulty, taking  into account  his particular  situation. And I recognise the concerns it 
has about the risks associated with allowing Mr J to port his mortgage. But it could have 
done more to assist him when he first contacted it in April 2018. And I think that, given all the 
circumstances and in light of what its already done to assist  Mr J, allowing him to port his 
mortgage as one final chance  to get things back on track  is in his best interests, and is a fair 
and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  its fair and reasonable for 
Santander UK Plc to:
Continue the current monthly capitalisation arrangement until 31 March 2020;
If necessary to allow Mr J to put in an offer on another property, provide Mr J with a 
decision in principle  based on lending no more than his then current  mortgage 
balance and no more  than his loan to value as at 31 December 2019, based on the 
agreed sale price of his current property;
Provided that Mr J shows Santander, by 31 March 2020, that he has:
oAccepted an offer to sell his current property; and 
oHad an offer accepted  to buy a new property
Santander should:
oExtend the current monthly capitalisation arrangement  until 31 August  2020;
oAllow Mr J to port his mortgage to a new property, provided that:
The new property is good security and meets its current lending  
criteria; 
The new mortgage  balance  is the same as or less than the mortgage  
balance as at redemption (exact balance to be calculated from the 
loan to value at sale and the purchase price  but likely to be less than 
the current balance);
The equity from the sale,  less costs of sale purchase and moving, is to 
be used as a deposit on the purchase;
The new loan to value  is the same as or less than the loan to value on 
the old mortgage as at 31 December  2019
Appoint a named single point  of contact, effective as soon as possible after the date 
we tell Santander Mr J has accepted  this decision, if he does, to guide Mr J through 
the porting application  process  and to keep in touch  with Mr J for regular updates;
Pay Mr J £500 compensation.
Ref: DRN209471914Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN209471915my provisional  findings
Since the investigator reached her view,  Ive discussed Mr Js circumstances with him and I 
appreciate the candour with which hes explained everything.  I understand the difficulties hes faced, 
and the need for him to be able to move on with his life and, hopefully, recover from the difficulties 
hes faced over the years.
Ive also discussed the case with Santander  and asked it for further information  about  its reasons for 
being unwilling to allow  Mr J to port.
But before I go any further, I think its important  to set out what my role is  to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.  
The rules about how the Financial Ombudsman Service handles complaints are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints  (DISP)  of the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authoritys, handbook (FCA 
Handbook).
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
In doing that, and in reaching the outcome I have, I take into account the following  as DISP 3.6.4 R 
requires:
The law;
Regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;
What I consider to be good industry practice
But although  Ill take all of these into account, ultimately Ill decide Mr Js complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the complaint. Thats what DISP 
3.6.1 R requires me to do. 
relevant law
Mr J has referred me to the Equality Act 2010, and the obligations it places  on Santander. Its an 
important part of the complaint hes made. The Equality  Act says, broadly, that a service provider  
such as a mortgage  lender  must not discriminate  by not providing a service, or providing  it on 
different terms,  or by failing  to make  adjustments. Mr Js argument is that Santander is obliged, but 
has failed, to provide reasonable adjustments because  of his disability.
The law relating to discrimination is a complex  area, and the case  law suggests that determining the 
application of the Equality Act, and whether theres been a breach, is not straightforward.  Although Mr J 
has specifically complained of discrimination  contrary to the Equality Act, its important to note that its 
not the role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service to make  a decision on whether  theres been a breach 
of the Equality Act. Thats the role of the courts.  Although Im required to take into account relevant law, 
my role is ultimately to decide Mr Js complaint in accordance with what I think is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its also important to note that Mr J has an ongoing  court case against Santander, and a key part of 
his claim is that it has discriminated against him, contrary to the Equality Act. The court claim relates  
to events up to 2016. Ive been  provided  with the claim  and defence in that case so that I can see 
exactly what  it concerns.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an informal  alternative to the courts. Our rules, at DISP 3.3.4A 
R, say that we may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  if the ombudsman   considers 
that the subject matter of the complaint is the subject of current court proceedings,  or has already 
been the subject of a judgment.  
Ref: DRN209471916Weve explained this to the parties, and everyone accepts that this complaint only relates  to acts and 
omissions of Santander from April 2018 onwards. So I consider there is no overlap with the court case 
in terms of the underlying  facts of that case  and this complaint  other than, of course, that both have 
Mr Js mortgage at their heart.  
That said, the Equality Act is  as Ive said  a relevant consideration in determining  whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of whats  happened since April 2018. Ill therefore set out a brief 
statement of my understanding of the relevant parts of the Equality Act. Ill then set out my 
conclusions on what, in my opinion, is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of Mr 
Js complaint.
1.direct discrimination
Direct discrimination is where a service  provider treats a customer less favourably because  of a 
protected characteristic  here, disability. 
2.indirect discrimination
Applying the test in the Equality Act, acts by a lender may amount to indirect discrimination  where the 
following conditions are met:
a lender, applying  a provision, criterion or practice, treats borrowers who dont have a disability the 
same as those  who do;
doing so puts those  with a disability at a particular  disadvantage compared  to those who dont  
have a disability;
the provision, criterion or practice  puts (or would put) the borrower at a disadvantage; and
the lender  cant show  that it is objectively  justified   that is, that its a proportionate means of 
achieving a legitimate  aim.
3.discrimination  arising from disability
The Equality Act says that discrimination arising  from disability is where a provider:
treats a borrower  unfavourably  because of something arising in consequence of a disability;  and
it cant  show that the treatment is objectively justified  that is, that its a proportionate means  of 
achieving a legitimate  aim.
4.reasonable  adjustments
Where a service providers provision, criterion or practice puts disabled persons generally  at a 
substantial disadvantage compared to those who dont have a disability, the Equality Act says a 
lender should take reasonable steps to avoid the disadvantage.  Service providers  should  anticipate  
the requirements of disabled people and the adjustments that may need to be made for them. 
However, nothing in the Equality Act requires a service provider to take a step which would 
fundamentally alter the nature of the service.  This is known as a duty to make reasonable  
adjustments  and again,  this is relevant law Ive taken into account.   
did Santander  act fairly in light of Mr Js disability when  he was unable to make his payments?
Ive set out above the role of relevant law in my decision  making. Its not for me to decide the law  
but I take it into account  in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
In this complaint, there  are two key issues  the action Santander did (or didnt)  take from April 2018 
onwards when Mr J told it he wouldnt be able to make his payments, and whether or not Mr J should 
be able to port his mortgage.
Ref: DRN209471917In respect of the payments, Mr J wrote  to Santander  first in April 2018  and again in later months  
explaining that he was unwell and unable  to work. He asked for a reasonable  adjustment to be 
made. He didnt set out explicitly what he wanted to happen by way of an adjustment. But I think what 
he wanted Santander to do was, firstly, not to collect his monthly payments;  and, secondly, not to 
treat him as being in arrears  and not to make such a record on his credit file. Hes since said he wants  
these payments written  off.
The rules of mortgage  regulation are set out in the FCA Handbook, in a section called  the Mortgages 
and Home Finance:  Conduct  of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB). MCOB sets out what  steps a lender 
should take when dealing with a borrower  faced  with a payment shortfall, where payments which are 
due remain unpaid, as was the case  with Mr J here. 
MCOB 13.3.2A R says a lender must make reasonable efforts to agree  how the payment shortfall is 
to be made  up, allowing  a reasonable time to do so and trying to agree  a reasonable  payment 
arrangement. In doing so, it should consider options such as a term extension, a change  to the 
mortgage type,  deferring interest or capital payments, capitalising the shortfall, and making use of any 
government forbearance initiatives that may be available. MCOB  13.3.4A R says these  options must 
be considered   but other measures  might also be appropriate. And the rules also say that lenders 
must have specific policies  in place  for dealing  with vulnerable customers.
There are no longer government  forbearance  schemes in England, so thats not an option in this 
case. And as the mortgage is already interest only, extending the term or changing its type wouldnt 
assist Mr J by making it more  affordable.  
Realistically, therefore, the only option open to Santander was to come  to some  kind of payment 
arrangement whereby it would collect reduced payments  or no payment  for a period of time to 
allow Mr J space and time to recover, return to work and maintain the payments.
In cases  of financial  difficulty, I would  ordinarily expect  the lender to contact the borrower to explore 
what can be done  and I would expect the borrower to engage, openly and frankly,  with the lender 
and explain their situation. Its only when both parties work together that the lender can understand 
the borrowers situation  and which of the options that are open to it will assist in resolving  the situation 
 if any will.
Its important to note that a period of financial  difficulty doesnt change the need for the mortgage to 
be repaid. Even  where a reduced payment arrangement can be agreed,  there will need to be a further 
discussion about how the missed payments can later be made  up to get the mortgage back  on track 
and hopefully  repaid by the end of the term. 
In this particular case, there has been a longstanding dispute between Santander and Mr J. As a 
result, communication between  them was difficult. There was some communication  via solicitors, but 
that was mainly about the court case, since neither solicitor  was instructed to deal with the ongoing 
relationship. And Mr Js condition made it difficult for him to communicate with Santander in the usual 
way  Santander had made some adjustments to take account of that. 
As a result, Mr J had named individual contacts who were senior members of staff in Santanders 
complaint function. It doesnt  seem  that Santanders mortgage centre,  or specialist  vulnerable 
customer team, were directly involved in dealing with Mr J.
There was some delay in getting up to date income and expenditure details from Mr J. And I think Mr 
J wasnt always clear about exactly what assistance he needed  at times he asked for a reasonable 
adjustment without setting out exactly what adjustment he felt he needed.
All of this meant that Mr Js situation, and his request for help, was more complex  and took longer to 
deal with than would be usual in cases of financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN209471918But the underlying issue was that Mr J was experiencing renewed financial difficulty. Because  of a 
new change in his circumstances  a relapse  in his condition affecting  his ability  to work  he couldnt 
make his mortgage  payments. Once it understood his situation   which took some time  Santander 
agreed not to collect payments from him. Mr J wanted it to go further than that. He didnt  want his 
payments to be collected, his mortgage to be in arrears, or recorded  as such  on his credit file.
Theres a binding  mortgage  contract in place between Mr J and Santander. Under that contract, 
Santander agreed to lend Mr J money  and he agreed to pay it back. If he misses  a payment, hes in 
breach of his mortgage contract, and falls into arrears.
The rules allow for a payment arrangement to be put in place,  by which agreement  is reached that the 
mortgage wont  be paid for a time. But this doesnt change  the fact that the payments are due, or that 
they will have to be paid eventually. This is part of standard  forbearance, which should  be considered  
in all cases  not just those  of customers with a particular vulnerability or disability. 
It doesnt  mean that the monthly payments are written  off; merely that collection of them  can be 
deferred, in full or in part. And to go further than that, simply to write  the missing payments off or not 
treat them as owing at all, wouldnt in my view be reasonable  even in cases  of vulnerability or 
disability. 
As a result, there will always be limitations on how far a payment arrangement can go. Once  its over, 
the payment shortfall  that results will need to be cleared.  This is generally done either  by formally 
adding the shortfall to the balance and increasing the contractual monthly  payment (known  as 
capitalisation), or by informally agreeing an extra payment to be made on top of the existing 
contractual monthly payment.
The courts have said that a reasonable period of time to clear a payment  shortfall  can be up to the 
whole of the remaining mortgage term1. It follows  that the higher a payment shortfall, the longer it 
goes on, or the shorter the remaining term of the mortgage, the higher the amount  payments will need 
to increase by to clear  the shortfall  whether  or not it is capitalised. Its also the case  that the longer  it 
takes to clear the shortfall, the more expensive  it will be through the charging  of additional  interest. 
MCOB 13.3.2A (1) says that a firm must make reasonable efforts to reach  an agreement  for the 
repayment of a shortfall, and MCOB 13.3.2A (3) says it should  allow a reasonable time for it to be 
repaid  which, taking into account the law, might  be up to the remaining term. And 13.3.2A (6) says 
that it should  treat repossession as a last resort. But the reality is that if no payment arrangement can 
be agreed, or if its not possible to repay the shortfall in a reasonable  time, a lender might need to 
consider repossession of the property as a last resort  to recover the sums owed.
Nothing in the law or in MCOB says that its reasonable to expect  a lender not to recover the payment 
shortfall at all. Simply to write  off debt properly  due under  the contract  is to fundamentally change the 
relationship between  lender  and borrower,  and the nature of the product  and how the lender  does 
business. 
Mr J has referred to Santanders obligation to make reasonable adjustments  under  the Equality Act. 
As Ive said,  its not for me to make findings  on matters  of law. Thats  for the courts.  Im aware of a 
case where the Court of Appeal considered this duty in the context  of financial difficulties and 
mortgages2. That case was concerned with an application to convert from a repayment mortgage to 
an interest only mortgage where  the borrower  was a disabled person facing repossession because of 
financial difficulties. The Court said it was reasonable for the lender  to refuse that change. It was 
something it never offered,  so it wasnt treating  disabled  people, or this borrower, less favourably.  And 
making the change would be to require the lender to accept a fundamentally different, and riskier, 
agreement than had originally been  taken  out, which  wasnt compatible  with how it carried  out its 
business.
1 See Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society v Norgan [1996]  1 WLR  343
2 Green v Southern Pacific  Mortgage Company [2018]  EWCA Civ 854
Ref: DRN209471919That case was decided on different underlying  facts.  But I think one of the principles it set out was that 
a lender doesnt have to agree to fundamentally change the nature of a mortgage by way of 
reasonable adjustment.  
I think,  taking into account the law and the rules  of mortgage regulation, its fair and reasonable to 
expect Santander to have  made adjustments in how and when Mr Js outstanding  payments were 
collected. Thats something required by MCOB, and Mr Js health and ability  to return  to work are 
relevant factors to take into account. But I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to make 
adjustments to whether payments are collected  at all. Theres a fundamental difference, in my view, 
between a mortgage where payments are required  but deferred by agreement, and a mortgage where 
payments are not required.  
And where payments  are deferred, it follows that  at some point  they will need to be resumed  and 
the shortfall made up.
For similar reasons, I think its not fair and reasonable  to expect Santander  to stop recording missed 
payments on Mr Js credit  file. The purpose of a credit file is to contain an accurate record of the 
conduct of an account, so that other lenders considering applications  for credit can have a true picture 
of the credit history of the applicant. There are rules around the compilation  of credit files, and 
guidance from the Information  Commissioner  but theyre to do with the accuracy of whats recorded. 
Im not aware of a rule or guidance that says the conduct of an account should not be recorded at all, 
or not recorded accurately,  in cases where  vulnerability  or disability  is the cause  of missed payments. 
And, given the purpose of credit files is to help ensure lenders lend responsibly (and theres  an 
element in that of protecting applicants  from taking on more debt than they can afford),  I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to expect Santander to depart from that general position  in this case. 
A lender  only records  the bare facts of whether payments have been made, have been missed  in line 
with an agreed  arrangement, or have simply  been missed   as well as the level of any arrears. But its 
open to a borrower to place a notice of correction  on a credit file explaining the reasons  behind  a 
recording, which other  lenders are required to consider in future. While I understand why Mr J wants 
more than that, I dont think its something that Santander should  fairly be required to do.
Santander did agree  not to collect  payments  for a time. Since  the complaint has been with us, its 
gone further and taken the decision to capitalise all the missed payments immediately from their due 
date, and will continue to do so up to December  2019. 
While this means Mr Js mortgage  balance  is increasing  month by month  and so when he does 
resume making payments the amount he pays each month will need to increase  it does address his 
concerns about having to make  the payments now. And as theyre  being  capitalised, rather than being 
treated as subject to an arrangement, Mr J is not being treated as being in arrears. Nothing is being 
added to his credit file, and late payment markers since  April 2018 have been removed.  
Santanders usual policy is not to capitalise arrears until the borrower has resumed their monthly 
payments and has demonstrated the ability to maintain them for some time. Thats  because 
capitalisation increases the contractual monthly payment  the arrears are formally added  to the loan 
balance, and the payments adjusted to collect the increased balance  over the remaining term. So it 
requires the borrower to agree to pay more, and carries  the risk of increased arrears  in the future  if 
theyre not able to. An informal payment arrangement, on the other hand, does not increase the 
amount the borrower is contractually required to pay.
Ref: DRN209471920Santander agreed to a payment arrangement whereby  it would  not collect the payments due. But 
once our investigator got involved, it took into account Mr Js particular circumstances  and the 
impact the worry about arrears and his credit file was causing him in light of his wider health 
concerns. It agreed  to capitalise month by month as payments  fell due. This is an adjustment it made  
to its usual  policy  which Ive set out above  to take account of Mr Js particular situation, and goes 
further than it usually  would.  I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and a fair way 
to resolve this part of Mr Js complaint. As for how long this arrangement is to last, Ill say more about 
that below.
should Mr J be allowed to port his mortgage?
I can readily understand why Mr J wants to move house. Hes been living in the same property for the 
duration of his illness. Its been the scene of some  traumatic incidents and continuing to live at their 
scene is a matter  that causes him ongoing distress.  Mr J believes that moving away to another  
property would give him a fresh start, significantly aiding  his recovery and reducing the risk of further 
relapses. While I havent  seen  any definitive medical evidence confirming that, I can understand why 
 at the very least  Mr J strongly  believes that to be the case. And I can understand why his belief in 
that is likely  to contribute to making it so. But for the mortgage, this is something he would be able to 
do.
The difficulty  is that this isnt simply a matter of moving house. Mr J has his mortgage.  Its secured by 
a charge on his property. So if he sells,  Santander is entitled to first call on the proceeds of sale to 
repay the debt  and that in turn wouldnt leave Mr J enough money to buy somewhere else. Hes 
spoken to an independent mortgage broker who has confirmed that he wouldnt  be able to raise a 
mortgage from another lender, based  on his finances and salary when working.  
So Mr Js only options  are to stay in his property, sell and move into the rented sector  which Mr J 
has been very clear  he doesnt  want  to do  or to port his current mortgage to another property.
Mr J says Santander should  allow him to port his existing  mortgage balance. At times, hes also said it 
should agree to lend him further money to cover his costs and to repay  other debt. He says that the 
monthly payments are affordable when  hes working  and moving will help with that. Mr J wants 
Santander to agree to port, to tell him exactly what he can borrow and then process  a porting  
application so he can then go out and look for properties.  
Santander says that it doesnt think it would be responsible to allow  Mr J to port at the moment. Hes 
not currently  able to pay anything  to his mortgage at all. Even when hes working, his income is lower 
than it used to be and the mortgage  balance  is now over ten times his income. It says its not in his 
best interests to continue  with a mortgage hes having difficulty managing. And its concerned that 
even if he did port, Mr J would still be unwell and still be unable to work  and would fall back into 
arrears. So it says his best options are either 
to sell the property and simply repay the mortgage; or
If he wants to port, it will only consider that when  payments have resumed, and it will then 
carry out a full affordability assessment and only lend what its assessment shows  he can 
afford, which is likely to be substantially lower  than the existing balance.  
The discussions and negotiations about porting which may have taken  place as part of the 
negotiations around trying to settle the court case pre-date April 2018 and are part of the court case. 
Those conversations  fall outside the scope of this complaint and I make no finding  as to what actually 
occurred. 
In this decision,  Im only considering the view Santander has now taken of Mr Js desire to port his 
mortgage, as set out in the options it presented to the investigator. In any event, the key issue I have 
to decide here is whether or not Mr J should be allowed to port his mortgage now,  regardless of what  
may or may not have been discussed in the past.
Ref: DRN209471921When considering a porting  application, a relevant  consideration in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances is the rules of mortgage  regulation, MCOB.  The ability to port a 
mortgage is, in general terms, not a right. A lender is not generally required to port  but it should  
consider an application as part of its discretion, and when it does so should consider  it fairly and in 
line with the rules.
There are various obligations  in the rules that have  to be balanced. MCOB 11.6.2  says a full 
affordability assessment  should  be carried out  but 11.6.3 says that requirement doesnt apply when 
varying or replacing an existing mortgage,  and where there is no further borrowing, the term doesnt 
extend past retirement age, and no change in the parties to the mortgage. I think the purpose of these 
rules is to require lenders  to lend responsibly  but also to ensure that existing  borrowers, who a 
lender has already taken on, are not treated  unfairly because their circumstances or the lenders  
criteria have  changed since the mortgage  was taken out.
Finally MCOB 2.5A says that a lender has to act fairly,  taking  account of the borrowers best interests 
 also a factor  in the regulators overriding principles that apply to all businesses.
I dont think Santander is required to agree to additional  borrowing. I agree that its likely that were a 
full affordability assessment  to be carried out in Mr Js current  circumstances Mr J would  fail the 
assessment. Since  his first illness, hes changed jobs and now earns less than he used to. When 
working, his salary is around a tenth of his mortgage balance. He spoke to a mortgage broker who 
advised him he wouldnt  pass  other lenders  affordability assessments. I think  thats likely to be true 
were Santander to carry out a full affordability assessment as well. But its also worth noting that, 
when working, he has in fact been able to afford the monthly mortgage payments.
Where theres additional borrowing theres no discretion in the rules   a full affordability assessment 
must be carried out, and I think, as I set out above,  Mr J would be likely to fail it. Part of the purpose of 
the rules  made more  strict in 2014, following the financial crash  is to make sure lenders lend 
responsibly by not lending more than borrowers  can afford.  In my view, it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to expect  Santander to ignore the rules  and lend Mr J more money.
However, if Mr J doesnt borrow  more  money  he just ports the same balance,  or a lower one  
theres no obligation for Santander to carry out an affordability  assessment. This provision  is 
contained in MCOB 11.6.3 R. And, given that, I dont think  it would be fair to use an affordability  
assessment as the sole basis for refusing a porting application. Thats  why I dont think what 
Santander told the investigator went far enough.
Thats not to say, though, that Santander is required to allow Mr J to port his existing balance  in full. 
The rules merely say it has to act fairly, taking into account  his best interests.  And our rules  require  
me to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  taking  into account the mortgage 
rules  which includes  whats  fair to both parties. 
Santander raises the point that if Mr J is to move house, he would  incur  substantial  costs  including 
estate agent commission  on his sale, stamp duty on his purchase,  and legal and valuation fees, as 
well as moving expenses. These  could  add up to many  thousands  of pounds.
If Mr J cant borrow more  funds from Santander  to cover  those costs, he might have to use some of 
the equity from the sale. That means he would have less money available  to buy a new property. And, 
if that was the case but his loan balance  remained the same, the loan to value on his new property 
would increase.
Its also fair to say that theres a long history here of Mr J having been in arrears  and struggling  with 
his mortgage. Santander  capitalised the arrears two or three years ago, and from then until 2018 Mr J 
was in work and making his monthly  payments.  
Ref: DRN209471922But since his recent illness, Mr J has again been unable  to make his payments. Because of the 
monthly capitalisation, hes not in arrears. Ongoing capitalisation isnt a sustainable position, though,  
because  as I explained above  it makes the mortgage balance and the contractual  monthly 
payment higher each time it happens. If it continues, there will come a time when Mr J wouldnt be 
able to afford  the monthly payment even if he does return to work. Santander is concerned that 
porting wont  in fact resolve the underlying problem and Mr J will continue  to struggle to meet his 
mortgage payments.
Given that, and given the history, as well as what I said above about  what  Santander can and cant  
reasonably be expected to do by way of forbearance, I do think Santander has reasonable concerns 
about how sustainable Mr Js mortgage is in the long term.
I think  its a genuine concern, and a fair one, that there may come a point where its not reasonable  
for Santander to continue  to offer further forbearance  because the point has been  reached at which 
its no longer  possible to get the mortgage back on track. If that happens,  and Mr J wasnt able to 
resume making his new contractual monthly payments, theres a risk that it may need to take 
alternative action  up to and including  repossession.
I very much hope that doesnt happen, of course. But it cant be ruled out. The existing forbearance  
arrangement is only in place until December  2019. If after that point Mr J cant resume paying  his 
mortgage, and agreement on further forbearance cant be reached,  matters may reach the next stage. 
And the same is true if further  forbearance  is agreed, and things still havent resolved  by the end of 
any extended  period. Ive said above that its fair that the mortgage remains payable,  and the purpose  
of forbearance is to avoid repossession where  possible by trying to get the mortgage back  on track. 
But there may come  a time when thats no longer a realistic prospect.
And if the last resort is reached  and Santander  does  need  to take repossession  action, it wouldnt in 
my view be reasonable to expect it to allow Mr J to port his mortgage at the same time as it was 
taking action to bring it to an end
As I say, I hope that position  never arises.  But I do think Santander does have legitimate concerns  
here.
I also have to bear in mind the particular circumstances  of this case. These include the nature of Mr 
Js illness, and how it affects him. He very strongly believes that only moving house, by porting, will 
allow him to recover sufficiently to get back to work. But its also fair to say that I dont have any 
professional medical evidence  on this point. And it may be that  despite Mr Js strong belief and best 
intentions  he remains  unwell even after porting. 
Having thought very carefully  about this, I do think it would be fair and reasonable and in Mr Js best 
interests to allow him to port. But I also think its reasonable to meet Santanders concerns.
Ive said theres no need for a full affordability assessment when a mortgage is ported without further 
borrowing. Santander argues that its in Mr Js best interests to get the mortgage back onto a 
sustainable footing  which means reducing  the balance  to an amount he can currently afford.
Theres force  in that argument, in my view. But its also the case that  until he had to stop work   Mr 
J was affording  the mortgage as it now stands. 
MCOB 11.6 says that a full affordability assessment involves detailed and rigorous  examination  of Mr 
Js finances, based both on the mortgage balance  now, and the balance were interest rates  to rise 
substantially in the future.  I agree hes likely to fail that assessment. But that doesnt change the 
position that, as things  stand (when hes working), he can in fact afford  the monthly  payments. He 
was able to make  the monthly payments while working, and the income and expenditure  form he 
completed shows that to be a sustainable position.
Ref: DRN209471923If Mr J were  applying  to Santander as a new borrower,  following  the full affordability assessment it 
would have to carry out, I think its likely it wouldnt agree to give him this mortgage based  on his 
current circumstances  as his financial adviser  has shown  is the case with other lenders. But if he 
ports, he wouldnt be applying as a new borrower, he would be applying as an existing  borrower. 
I agree with Santander that Mr Js circumstances mean that it faces more  than usual risk over 
whether the mortgage will be repaid. And I agree  that theres more risk of it having to take action to 
recover the balance  in future than is generally the case. And having a large mortgage and an 
uncertain income puts Mr J in a difficult position too.
But Santander  and Mr J both face those risks already. If Mr J were  to port his mortgage to another 
property without further borrowing, in my view the risk position wouldnt change. The monthly  
payments would stay the same. The balance  would  stay the same. The term would remain the same  
 and so would the long term issue of Mr Js ability to repay the capital at the end of the term.
One area where the risk could increase is if the loan to value were to increase. If Mr J uses some of 
the equity to cover the costs  of moving, but then keeps the same mortgage balance,  he would  have 
less equity  to buy a new property  and the share of the purchase  price covered by the mortgage 
would go up.
Loan to value  doesnt in my view present an immediate  risk to the sustainability  of the mortgage. But 
were the worst to happen and Santander need to take repossession action,  it would  mean  theres 
more risk that the property value wouldnt cover the full balance  and more  risk to Mr J that he would 
be left with less equity or even a shortfall. Of course, I very much hope that things never come to this. 
But theres always a possibility  of it with every  mortgage, and its not unreasonable to plan to mitigate  
the risk in deciding the level of borrowing. Santander acknowledges it could  consider an application 
with the same or lower loan to value   but still has the other concerns  I have set out. I acknowledge  
thats a matter for its commercial judgement   but its commercial judgement has to be exercised fairly 
in all the circumstances,  and thats a matter for me to consider.
I also have to bear in mind Mr Js best interests. Its not in his best interests to take on a mortgage he 
couldnt afford   but in porting, he wouldnt  be taking on a new mortgage, or increasing the payments 
hes already  liable to make. And I think he has clearly and cogently explained  how important it is for 
him and his future health and wellbeing to be able to move away from his current property. In the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think thats a strong factor to weigh  in the balance.  
So I understand  Santanders  concerns  about allowing Mr J to port, and I understand his strong desire 
to do so. Ive taken all the above into account.  
next steps
I dont think its possible  to deal with the two aspects of this complaint  the forbearance, and the 
porting  separately. I think the right approach  is for me to take a step back  and look at things in the 
round, setting out what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive taken into account everything Ive said above. That includes  the law, regulations  and guidance. It 
also includes  the facts  of this case  and Im very mindful of Mr Js particular  situation and the 
individual circumstances he finds himself in.
In this particular, unusual and difficult case, I think it would be fair to allow Mr J to port his mortgage 
so that he has the best chance of recovering from his illness,  getting back to work  and getting  his 
mortgage back  on track.  
But, as Ive said,  Santander  has legitimate  concerns both about the situation now and about  the long-
term sustainability of the mortgage.  I think its fair that those concerns  are taken into account and 
addressed. 
Ref: DRN209471924The current arrangement to capitalise the monthly payments ends at the end of December  2019. And 
Mr Js current  interest rate ends in April 2020. 
December 2019 is only a short time away. I dont think that gives Mr J enough time to port his 
mortgage to a new property.
Equally, however, I dont think  it would  be fair to require  Santander to give an open-ended 
commitment to allow him to port when  as Ive said  the balance  is going up each month and Mr J is 
not yet in a position to resume payments.
I think  the fair outcome here is to say that Santander should allow Mr J to port his mortgage.  Having 
tried other  methods of getting the mortgage back  on track, this could be seen  in the particular 
circumstances of this case  as a last resort for forbearance.  But it should only be expected to do so if 
neither the balance nor the loan to value  increase, other than as a result of the capitalisation. And  to 
avoid a situation where porting takes place against  a background of mounting arrears or other action 
in the future   there should be a time limit on doing so.
And I think the current breathing space Mr J is being  given by Santander, exceptionally  and in his 
particular situation,  should also continue to allow Mr J to go through the porting  process  and get 
himself into a situation where  he can resume work and resume  payments.
I think  a fair outcome is for Santander to extend the current capitalisation forbearance for three 
months, until the end of March 2020. That will allow Mr J time to market  his property and find another  
to buy.
If, by the end of March 2020,  Mr J can show Santander that he has accepted an offer to buy his 
current property, and in turn has himself had an offer accepted to buy a new property,  Santander 
should then extend the capitalisation arrangement for a further three months,  until the end of June 
2020, to allow the porting process to complete. If Mr J needs a decision in principle to allow him to 
make an offer on a property,  Santander should provide him with one  recognising that a decision  in 
principle is not a guarantee that a mortgage offer should follow.
And, again if Mr J has offers in place  by the end of March 2020, Santander should allow him to port 
his mortgage provided that the loan balance  does not increase, provided  the new property is good 
security and meets lending criteria, and provided  that the loan to value on completion of the new 
mortgage is no higher  than the loan to value  on redemption of the old one. It should  be prepared to 
show a small amount of flexibility around the June 2020 deadline provided it is satisfied that the house 
sale and purchase is proceeding properly.
I dont think its fair to expect Santander  to continue the current forbearance  arrangements indefinitely  
 and I dont think its in Mr Js best interests either. If Mr J isnt able to port by the deadlines Ive set, 
and he is not able to resume making  his mortgage payments, I dont think it would be right for me to 
pre-empt here the discussions that will need to follow  between Mr J and Santander.  And if Mr J is able 
to port  and having done  so is still unable  to return to work,  or resume his mortgage payments, its 
difficult to see how the mortgage can fairly  be maintained into the future after that. 
This is an unusual and difficult case. Ive thought carefully about  what  I think  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and in the particular  circumstances of this case I think it would  be fair for 
Santander to allow Mr J some final breathing space to get matters  back  on track. But if that doesnt 
prove possible, I think it would  also be fair for Santander  to review whether the mortgage really is 
sustainable into the long term.   
Finally, I think   given the relationships between the parties,  and given Mr Js vulnerability  
Santander should make  arrangements for Mr J to have a single named  point of contact to work with 
through the porting  process.
Ref: DRN209471925Mr Js trouble and upset
Our investigator recommended  and Santander accepted  that it should  pay Mr J £500 
compensation. Ive thought  carefully about this. Having  done so, and having  noted  that Santander has 
taken considerable steps already to offer Mr J forbearance in his individual situation that goes beyond 
its usual arrangements, I think thats a fair offer in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN2094719