K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs S says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
It isnt clear how the credit card was applied for and the PPI sold to Mrs S. Mrs S told us she 
didnt think it was taken  out in a branch of RBS and RBS cant  tell us how it was sold.
But RBS has been able to show us a copy of the original application  form. I can see it has 
instructions to complete and send back to RBS. So it looks like the type of form that would 
either be sent to Mrs S to be completed and posted  back to RBS.  Or it could be Mrs S 
picked up the leaflet, completed  it and sent it back.  In any case I think Mrs S completed  the 
form herself.
The form has a section  about PPI with boxes  to accept or decline PPI. I can see the box to 
accept PPI has been ticked and the box to decline it has been left blank. The PPI remained 
on Mrs S account for many years, and the PPI premiums wouldve been shown on her credit 
card statements.  If it was something Mrs S didnt want then Id expect her to have 
questioned the PPI premiums at an early stage.  But Ive not seen any evidence that she did 
so. Overall I think  its likely RBS made  it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this after so 
many years.
Because Mrs S completed the form herself I dont think  RBS recommended the PPI to her. 
So it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the 
information she needed to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI wouldve put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN23166402To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said. Mrs S has told us her employer provided good 
sick pay and that she wouldve  received  redundancy if he lost her job. So Mrs S says she 
didnt need the PPI. 
In the questionnaire  Mrs S completed  for this service she told us she had been working for 
her employer for around 18 months in November 2004. RBS has told us it spoke with Mrs S 
and she told it that she started with her employer in July 2004. So I think its likely  she had 
only been there a short  while when she applied for the credit card. So in November 2004       
I dont think its likely  shed have got any significant redundancy pay if she lost her job. And I 
dont think shed have  received full sick pay for more  than a short while  if shed became too 
unwell to work. The PPI sold to her couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if 
Mrs S became too unwell to work or lost her job. So despite her employer benefits I still think 
shed have found the policy useful  if things went wrong.
Mrs S representatives told us later that Mrs S clarified her employer benefits  with the 
following statement:
I think  if up to a year is one months  sick pay. After a year the sick pay is one months full 
pay and one months half pay. This increases annually to six months full pay and six 
months half pay. I was there thirteen years.
I think this means that Mrs S worked at her employer for a total of 13 years before she left. 
But even if she had been working there for 13 years at the time of the sale I still think  shed 
have found the policy useful if she couldnt work.  The benefit would have paid out on top of 
any sick pay and couldve lasted longer than her employers full sick pay.
Mrs S has also told us she had some savings she could rely on. But the PPI policy would 
mean she could keep her savings intact or use them for other living costs if she couldnt  
work.
In summary  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold as I think Mrs S chose to take out the cover 
knowing she didnt have  to. I think the information RBS gave  her couldve been clearer,  but 
even if RBS had given Mrs S all the clear information it should  have,  I still think she would 
have bought the policy.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc   does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN23166403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316640