K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a mortgage he held with Clydesdale Bank Plc. He says he was 
misinformed about the options he had and this led to him having to pay an early  repayment 
charge (ERC).
background
In 2016 Mr B arranged  a mortgage with Clydesdale on his home. He took a fixed  rate 
product with the mortgage at a rate of 1.89%. There was an ERC payable on the product 
until 31 March 2018. It was also confirmed the mortgage product  could  be ported if 
Clydesdale agreed  a new mortgage loan.  
In the autumn of 2017 he decided he wanted  to buy a new home. Rather than sell the old 
one, he decided to keep it and rent it out. As such, Mr B needed a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage 
for his old property from which he would release some equity to be used in the new property  
purchase.
On 12 October 2017 Mr B contacted  Clydesdale and an appointment with a mortgage 
adviser was booked in for 21 October  2017.  The notes from the time say customer looking 
to purchase new property, and after March will change current  property  to BTL to avoid 
ercs. Subsequently Mr Bs appointment was changed to later in the day on 21 October 
2017 with a different adviser. 
The interview on 21 October 2017  was recorded. The recording details that Mr B wanted to 
release equity from his property to be able to buy a new one and once  he had, wanted to 
rent out the old property. It is clear  that he understood that if he paid off the existing 
mortgage he would have to pay an ERC. Mr B already had in mind  a property for the 
purchase. The discussions were based  on Clydesdale providing both the BTL mortgage and 
the new residential one. The timescales  discussed were that Mr B wouldnt take any action 
to apply for the mortgages until three months  before the end of the existing product term, 
thereby avoiding an ERC.
The adviser couldnt give Mr B any definitive  answers on what could and couldnt be done for 
him due to having to wait to apply  for the residential mortgage until the BTL had been 
agreed. The mortgage adviser offered instead  to make some assumptions  and score  the 
mortgage for Mr B to give him more  of an idea about  what  was possible. He said he would 
do so and call Mr B back later that day.
Unfortunately, Clydesdale hasnt been able to locate the follow-up telephone call and so I 
havent been able to listen to it. However,  based  on the email sent to Mr B later that 
afternoon, which I have  detailed below, it would appear alternative options were discussed.  
The email  to Mr B from the mortgage adviser in the afternoon  of 21 October 2017 said I just 
realised that if you are looking at another lender for your Buy To Let mortgage,  you will end 
up incurring an Early  Repayment Charge of 2% of the balance.  I do have another  option for 
you to avoid paying this. 
Also, you mentioned you will be getting  a report to confirm the rental income your current 
property will generate. Can you get an ARLA registered Estate Agent to do this? I realise  the 
underwriters will need a copy of this to confirm what the anticipated  rental income will be.
Ref: DRN23568082A key facts  document  was produced  the same day for the residential mortgage. It was for 
£320,000 mortgage on a purchase of £450,000. The mortgage was to be on a repayment 
basis over a term of 29 years. A five-year fixed rate was to be attached  to the mortgage  with 
an interest rate of 2.49%.  
It appears Mr B tried calling the mortgage adviser within  a few minutes of the above email  
being sent. However, it doesnt appear he was able to speak to him. 
The following  day Mr B sent the mortgage  adviser  an email in which  he proposed  a plan for 
the mortgages on the two properties. This said:
As we have  the problem with the porting  the mortgage over and then waiting to for my 
current mortgage to complete.  I have come up with a different scenario which  I would rather  
pursue:
Mortgage 1  current £176000 outstanding   rate of 1.89%, monthly  payment of 
£994.
Mortgage 2  New £149500 take out the new mortgage on a discounted to 
variable of 2.29% no fee (this would  mean no arrangement  or 
survey fee?) monthly payment £588.31.
This would then be merged with mortgage 1 in March to a fixed rate mortgage which should 
be around the 2.5% fee mark.
Mortgage 3  new BTL. Virgin is offering the following:  Based on £330k borrowing (this 
extra will cover off any fees and is the worst case scenario). 
Rate 2.04% monthly payments of £560  fixed for 2 years, this 
has also a fee of £995 on top, there  is a lower rate of 1.84% 
but attracts  £1995  fees  which  nets out to be not worth the 
rate. Payments of £561 @2.04%.
I will be able to get the valuation from the real estate agent  on Saturday  they are not able 
to do any sooner unfortunately.
If you can let me know if all of this makes sense  and is possible?
Neither party has provided any evidence that this email was responded to at the time. The 
next thing on the file was an email to Mr B from the mortgage adviser  on 1 November 2017. 
This acknowledged receipt of the rental income  document. It confirmed he had added  the 
mortgage payment  for the proposed  BTL mortgage  (that he might be able to get with another 
lender) as £600 into the residential mortgage  documentation. The adviser asked if Mr B 
would have time to discuss the matter again. 
There was a conversation  between Mr B and the mortgage adviser two days later.  The call 
recording evidences the mortgage adviser again  acknowledging receipt  of the rental  income 
document and him asking how Mr B was getting  on with the BTL application. Mr B said he 
had some chaser calls to make (the inference  being that the BTL application  was one of 
them), which  he would  do the following day.
The note of the conversation and the advisers  actions resulting from it said:
Ref: DRN23568083I have included rental income  as the cust is wanting  to let out his existing house and 
complete a purchase on a new property. he has provided a document confirming potential 
rental income  attached to file and looking for approval  to use this in custs income: cust 
looking at a BTL mortgage elsewhere  and explains he is looking at a mortgage of £600  per 
month for the BTL with another lender: I advised that this would need to be agreed and 
confirmation shown  in order for us to consider approving; docs attached  can we get an 
approval with conditions?  Also stripped  out council tax and water for BTL as tenant will be 
paying.
The mortgage adviser produced the mortgage suitability letter for the residential  mortgage 
the same  day. It detailed  the recommendation to take out a five-year  fixed  interest rate, 
although the whole term of the mortgage was to be 29 years.  It also recommended  the 
mortgage be on a repayment basis.
On 6 November  2017 the mortgage advisers  enquiries about an acceptance  of the 
residential mortgage with conditions were  answered. The underwriters opinion  was that as 
the new mortgage would be entirely  dependent on the BTL arrangements  Mr B made, of 
which there were no details; no indication of whether the residential mortgage  would  be 
agreed could be made  at that time.
Mr B called the same day wanting to speak to the mortgage adviser. He chased  on 7 and 
8 November 2017. The mortgage  adviser called him back  on 9 November  2017.  The adviser 
explained to Mr B what the underwriters had said. He was told once the BTL mortgage was 
applied for and approved, if he provided a copy of the offer,  they would be able to reconsider 
the residential application.
The conversation then goes on to discuss the option  Mr B had suggested in his email of 
22 October 2017  porting the existing mortgage product over to the new property; take a 
further advance  for the remaining purchase  funds  (on a discounted SVR product) and then 
at the end of the term of the existing product merging the two loan elements. At that point a 
fixed rate would be taken  for the entire loan amount. Mr B during this conversation refers to 
the further advance as a bridging loan, but the mortgage adviser corrects  his use of 
terminology. 
The mortgage adviser says that he was not sure how the underwriters would view this plan. 
However, once Mr B had the BTL offer in place,  he would  update  the information on their 
records and the application for the residential mortgage could be looked at. It was confirmed 
that a mortgage  offer would take 2-3 weeks.
A few days  later Mr B viewed a different property and an offer was made  on 12 November. 
The offer was accepted three  days later on 15 November.  It doesnt appear that Mr B made  
Clydesdale aware  that he had changed his mind about what  property  he wanted to buy or 
that he had made an offer and had it accepted.  
The day after the offer was accepted on the new property,  Mr B sought  advice from an 
independent broker.  The broker  provided  advice on both the BTL arrangements  for Mr Bs 
existing property and a mortgage  for the residential  property Mr B had started the process to 
buy. Neither mortgage recommended  by the broker was with Clydesdale. 
Mr B applied for the residential mortgage  on 24 November  2017 and it completed on 
30 January 2018.  As Mr B repaid his existing  mortgage before  the end of his fixed rate and 
Ref: DRN23568084wasnt replacing it with a mortgage with Clydesdale, he had to pay an ERC.  He wasnt happy  
about this and complained to Clydesdale.
During the investigation into Mr Bs complaint he had a telephone  conversation  with the 
complaint handler.  In that conversation he was given incorrect  information  about porting of 
existing products in that a concession Clydesdale makes wasnt explained. This concession  
relates to existing customers who are taking  a new mortgage with Clydesdale and the waiver 
of the ERC in the last three months of the term of the mortgage  product. 
Clydesdale considered Mr Bs complaint. It said it was satisfied that Mr B was told what 
percentage ERC he would be charged  before he decided to repay  his mortgage. So it didnt  
uphold that aspect of his complaint. However,  it accepted the customer service  it had 
provided was not good enough.  Mr B had had to request  information  twice before receiving it 
and the complaint handler had caused some confusion regarding when the mortgage could 
be repaid without an ERC being  charged. Clydesdale offered Mr B £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the poor service.
Mr B wasnt  happy with Clydesdales response  and referred his complaint to this service.  He 
told us that Clydesdale had said it wouldnt be able to do a BTL mortgage  for his old property 
and he would need to go elsewhere.  He was happy  to do so in the circumstances, but he 
has since discovered Clydesdale  could have done the BTL and he was lied to. 
In addition, Mr B has said Clydesdale offered to port the mortgage product to the new 
property, offering him bridging finance  for the difference until the rate had ended and then a 
re-mortgage for the whole  amount. He said he has now found out that the top-up 
mortgage/bridging finance is not something  it could or should have offered him.  Mr B has 
also said he wasnt told about the three  month mortgage concession  allowing him to pay off 
the mortgage with no ERC if he took his new mortgage with Clydesdale.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He said he hadnt  been aware there  was the 
option to port his mortgage in the last three months   the conversations with Clydesdale 
didnt reach  that stage  the first few times.  As such, he believed he was clearly misled  as to 
what his options  were.  In  addition, he says the options he was given included using a 
short--term mortgage which was in all but name  a bridging loan. It has subsequently been  
confirmed by Clydesdale that it is not able to offer such  finance.  As he was not comfortable 
with what he was being told, that is why he didnt go through  with the application. Mr B asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator reviewed  her findings in light of Mr Bs comments and further  evidence  
being provided. She again concluded  the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. She accepted that 
there had been  some  confusion about the options available  to Mr B and thought Clydesdale 
could have explained things better. However, she was satisfied the information he received 
about the ERC was clear enough.  She also thought the £100  for any confusion  it might have 
caused after the complaint was made, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B again  didnt accept  the investigators findings. He said he approached  Clydesdale 
about the option to port the mortgage and was told explicitly  that this was not an option. 
Other options were  discussed which included short-term/bridging loans to cover  the period 
from when the new house would be purchased to when the old mortgage would be ending. 
He tried to follow  up on the options  available to him from 22 October 2017 and over the next 
Ref: DRN23568085couple of weeks.  However, his emails were ignored and due to the high cost of the options  
made available to him, he was forced  to look elsewhere. When  he went back to Clydesdale 
in the January he was mocked and rudely  told that he could have ported within the last three  
months. At that point he asked if he could pay the remaining mortgage payments due before 
the mortgage product expiry date, but was told this was not an option.
Mr B said he had no recollection of the suitability letter from Clydesdale  in which  it explained 
its recommendation to him. He says its content  doesnt tie in with any of the emails  that were 
being exchanged at the time. Had he been aware  of the porting option he doesnt think he 
would be in the position he is. It remains that he feels he was deceived  into paying  the ERC.  
He believes that most  of what Clydesdale has said during our investigation has been  
misleading and false. As such he doesnt  think the outcome is fair and believes key points of 
the case had not been  understood or were  distorted by Clydesdale. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued my 
provisional decision on 15 November  2019.  In that document I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. An excerpt  of my findings is detailed below.
The key evidence in this case is the exchange of information and discussions between Mr B 
and Clydesdale. I have  listened to all of the available call recordings and reviewed  all of the 
emails and notes that have been provided by both parties.
Having listened  to the recording  of the initial mortgage interview on 22 October 2017 I am 
satisfied that the entire conversation revolved  around Clydesdale  giving Mr B both a new 
residential mortgage and re-mortgaging his existing property to a BTL basis. So I cant 
conclude that Mr B was told Clydesdale couldnt  give him a BTL mortgage if he wanted it to. 
There was a later mention  by Mr B that he didnt like the rates  that Clydesdale  could  offer 
him, so it is possible that it told him it couldnt  match what he could get elsewhere,  but that is 
different from telling him it didnt provide BTL mortgages. I am satisfied that Clydesdale did 
make Mr B aware  he could  apply for a BTL mortgage through  it from the first discussions he 
had with it. 
Mr B has said he wasnt told about  the concession of the ERC being waived in the last three  
months of the mortgage product if a new mortgage  was taken with Clydesdale, I cant  say 
that the concession was explicitly explained  to him. However, I think he was made aware of 
this in the mortgage interview on 22 October 2017.There was a discussion about when the 
earliest he could  apply for the new mortgage  arrangements was and that this was the very 
end of December   Mr B questioned this as he thought the product expired slightly  earlier  
than it did.
As for Mr Bs concerns  about the options  he was offered  by Clydesdale  the bridging 
arrangement he has detailed  I am not persuaded this was ever offered to him. Firstly, I 
would point out that this was put forward  by Mr B as something he would  like. It was not 
introduced by Clydesdale. In addition,  when it was discussed with the mortgage adviser, he 
was told the adviser  wasnt sure it was something the underwriters  would go for. However, 
when Mr B was ready to move forward and had arranged the BTL and provided evidence  it, 
the adviser would  ask the underwriters about  Mr Bs suggestion. I am satisfied the 
arrangement Mr B has said he should never  have been offered because  Clydesdale couldnt 
provide it, was never offered  to him by Clydesdale.
Ref: DRN23568086Whilst I know that this will disappoint Mr B, I am not able to find that Clydesdale  gave Mr B 
incorrect information, offered him things it shouldnt have or withheld information  that might  
have made  a difference to the choices he made. 
That said,  there were some very minor  customer service issues during the course of the 
advice process. Clydesdale has also acknowledged  its later customer  service  wasnt  what it 
should have been. It has offered £100 for the customer service issues and I think that is 
sufficient in the circumstances. 
Clydesdale confirmed it had no final points to make or any further  information  to offer.
Mr B didnt accept my conclusions. He stated the £100 offered for poor customer  service 
hadnt been paid to him and was only ever mentioned by the previous investigator.  He said 
he would  not accept the money until the complaint  process was completed as he saw it as 
an attempt by Clydesdale to dismiss his claim. Mr B highlighted that he didnt consider being 
laughed at by a call handler  at Clydesdale was acceptable and I had not addressed  that.
Mr B highlighted that I had incorrectly referred  in my findings to the mortgage interview 
having taken place on 22 October whereas it had actually  taken place  on 21 October 2017.  
He said it was in that initial call it was confirmed there was no option to port the mortgage 
and this was also confirmed on the mortgage  document. All subsequent conversations 
continued on that core basis. It was not until January 2018 that Clydesdale changed their 
tune and said it was an option. 
The missing  call and the email on 22 October  are intrinsically linked in Mr Bs opinion. He 
said it was that call that prompted him to review  his options with Clydesdale. Following that 
call, in which the mortgage  adviser suggested using  multiple loans, Mr B looked at 
Clydesdales website  and put together what he thought was a slightly  better arrangement.  
This suggestion was, he says, based  on what the mortgage  adviser had proposed to him 
during the follow-up call on 21 October  2017. He used the email as a follow-up to the call so 
he could confirm what he was suggesting and that hed understood what the mortgage 
adviser had meant.  Mr B denies  coming up with that arrangement  and feels for me to imply 
that was the case  is completely false. The email from the mortgage adviser on 
21 October 2017 supports this as it indicates  he had another option  for you to avoid paying 
this.
Regarding the ability  to port in the last three months,  Mr B says this again was never an 
option. The mortgage documents clearly say its not. The letter  Clydesdale sent indicating  
the mortgage could be ported was never received and the timing  of the letter,  in Mr Bs 
opinion, is more than a little suspicious.  As is the fact that the letter only came  to light over a 
year after it was supposedly sent  this is not acceptable in Mr Bs view.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Bs recent  
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to apologise to Mr B for having  referred to the mortgage  interview  
occurring on 22 October  2017 in my findings.  This was incorrect as it should have said 
21 October 2017, as I correctly detailed for the date of that conversation in the background.  
I would like to confirm  those typographical errors  did not have any material  effect on my 
consideration of the complaint or my conclusions.
Ref: DRN23568087I would also like to provide Mr B with some clarification regarding  the terms used  in this 
case. Porting  is the process of transferring a mortgage interest rate product to a new 
mortgage loan.  The three month window at the end of the interest rate product term that has 
been referred to is nothing to do with porting that product. It is a concession  period whereby, 
if a consumer pays off their existing residential  mortgage with Clydesdale in the last three 
months of the product  term, but has also applied for and been accepted for a replacement 
mortgage, the ERC due for leaving  the product early is waived.
Mr B has said that he was told in the initial interview  call on 21 October  2017 he couldnt port 
his mortgage product  to the new residential  mortgage. As I confirmed in my provisional 
decision, I have  listened to the recording of that initial interview. The conversation was about  
the provision of both a BTL and residential  mortgage with the applications taking place within  
the last three months of the existing mortgage product to avoid an ERC. Porting wasnt the 
subject of the conversation.
 
Mr B has also said that in the follow-up call on 21 October 2017 the mortgage adviser 
introduced the concept of porting over the existing product over to a new mortgage and 
taking top-up finance. His email of 22 October was just his reiteration  of those concepts, but 
in what he thought was a better form. 
I cant know for certain what was said or suggested  in that telephone  call. It is clear that the 
concept of Mr B not waiting for the concessionary window to move forward  was raised  
hence the email  later that day confirming an ERC would be payable if he moved ahead with 
alternative arrangements and the adviser might have a way of him avoiding it. It would also 
appear that Mr Bs decided during  that call to look elsewhere for his BTL mortgage, despite  
knowing Clydesdale could provide it. 
The mortgage adviser also produced a key features document on that day for the mortgage 
the adviser was expecting  to recommend to Mr B  it doesnt involve the porting of the 
existing product and a top-up arrangement  rather it is a simple, straightforward  repayment 
mortgage on a new interest rate product. This wouldnt indicate the adviser had suggested a 
more complicated arrangement for the prospective  residential mortgage. Nor would the 
language in Mr Bs email  introducing the idea for how the new residential mortgage might  be 
structured. 
I note Mr Bs statement  that he didnt accept the £100 offered by Clydesdale and his reasons 
for not accepting it. I would, however,  comment that the offer was made in a letter  Mr B 
provided us with a copy of with his original complaint submissions  dated 6 March 2018  
so I cant accept it was only ever mentioned by our investigator. As for Mr B being laughed at 
by a member of staff at Clydesdale, if that did happen, I would  agree  that it wouldnt have 
been acceptable behaviour. However,  it didnt happen in any of the calls we have  recordings 
of. So it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to ask Clydesdale to increase its offer in the 
circumstances.
Again, I know this will disappoint Mr B, but I remain of the option, based on the 
documentation, call recordings and Mr Bs recollections I am not able to find Clydesdale 
gave him incorrect information, offered him things it shouldnt have or withheld  information 
from him that could  have  altered his decisions and saved him from having to pay an ERC.
Ref: DRN23568088my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 5 
January 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2356808