K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the advice  he received to transfer his final salary pension 
benefits into a new Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP). He believes that as a result of 
this transfer he has been financially disadvantaged. He says he was concerned about the 
status of his existing occupational pension and the steps his previous employer might take 
that might  affect  his benefits. He says he was not advised by the adviser  acting for The On-
Line Partnership Limited (On-Line)  that this would not happen  and could not happen.  He 
therefore thought  that in transferring  his pension he was protecting  his benefits  as opposed 
to potentially forfeiting  them. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2020. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In the provisional decision I explained  why I was not intending to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr W did not agree with the provisional decision and made further  submissions. I have read 
those submissions in full but, in summary, he:
Said that it is reasonable to assume  that a letter of September 2018 and an email of 
July 2019 has heavily influenced a change in outcome to that set out by the 
adjudicator.
Disputed the submissions that had been made by On-Line in its email  of July 2019.  
He said that the only motive  for transferring his pension was to protect it from his 
employer. And the adviser confirmed transferring was his only option  in the suitability 
report. 
Disputes the relevance of On-Line  referring to his employment history, investments, 
wealth and certain legal proceedings. 
Disputes On-Lines submissions about the outcome and findings of certain separate  
legal proceedings.  
Said that the adviser was fully aware  of his situation and employment  history when 
he gave the advice, and he disclosed this to him. 
Said the adviser was set on transferring the pension  and there  were  no 
circumstances under which he wouldnt do that. 
Confirmed that he was concerned at the time whether  his pension benefits  would  be 
honoured. He had not otherwise ascertained whether his ex-employer would permit 
retention of pension  benefits. This is why he approached the On-Line adviser.
He had disclosed all the background with respect to his complaint to the adjudicator, 
contrary to the submission of On-Line. 
His professional knowledge  is not with regard to pensions and any FCA regulatory 
permissions were  supplied via his ex-employer. 
Ref: DRN28135982He did not wish to use any pension money  for a new career. He didnt manage his 
own investments but passed them on to third parties. 
He was not supplied with copies  of the paperwork at the time.
On-Line then also made further submissions. In summary it said:
It did respond to Mr Ws representatives subject access  request in 2017 but was not 
supplied with the relevant evidence of identity/authority  so that it could release the 
information. 
The reference made by the adviser  to Mr Ws previous employer honouring the 
pension concerned its financial stability  and was not a reference  to any specific 
action that the employer may take against  Mr W or was considering taking.
It remains of the view that Mr W did not disclose all the background regarding his 
previous employment  to the adviser and did not tell him that he was only concerned 
with that employers ability to affect  his pension benefits. If Mr W had asked its 
adviser about that, he would not have  been able to provide a definitive answer. Only 
his previous employer could  have  provided  such certainty. 
It remains of the view that when Mr W left his previous  employment  there  would likely 
have been discussions about  the reduction  in certain remuneration benefits  and 
that would  likely have  included pension benefits. 
It believes it unlikely Mr W was a self-employed stock exchange  trader as recorded  
on the fact find in 2012  when this was so proximate to his leaving his previous 
employer. 
It questions why Mr W would wish to keep on dealing with the adviser if he had not 
received a clear  answer as to whether  Mr Ws previous employer could  change  his 
pension benefits.  
Mr W was supplied with the Fact Find and Suitability Report  completed  at the time the 
advice was given.  He made further submissions. I have considered all those submissions  
but, in summary,  he said:
The Suitability  Report  has not been signed by him and he cannot remember  
receiving it. He questions  whether  he had been  supplied with it.
The only choice presented to him was to transfer.
There was very little detail on the Fact Find about his role at his employer. The fact 
that the adviser could recall the nature of his employment means that an in depth 
discussion of his situation did take place  at the time.   
On-Lines reference to separate Court proceedings is irrelevant and unwarranted.
The adviser classed  him as a professional investor but did not have enough evidence 
to classify him as such. The only way to classify  him as such  was to have a 
discussion at the time about his situation and fears  about his pension.  This shows 
Ref: DRN28135983that his concerns about his pension  were discussed. There was insufficient 
documentary evidence  from when  the advice was given  to classify him as a 
professional or knowledgeable investor. 
He was concerned  about the vulnerability  of his pension and was told by the adviser  
that his only option  was to transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that the email of 2019  and letter of 2018 that Mr W has referred to, the new 
information, has not been the material factor that has led to my provisional decision. I 
consider all the evidence and arrive at a decision which I believe is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I set out in the attached provisional decision how I had arrived  at that 
decision  and that this concerns considerably more information  and evidence than the two 
pieces of correspondence Mr W refers  to. I understand  that Mr W is disappointed  that I have 
arrived at a different  view from the adjudicator   but that is not merely  because I have been 
persuaded by recent correspondence  from the business. It is simply that I have arrived  at a 
different conclusion that the adjudicator based on the entirely of the evidence.  
I would also like to confirm that I did not draw  any conclusions  about the probity  of the 
parties from the submissions made about  separate  legal  proceedings (which are unrelated to 
the pension transfer save that they serve  to illustrate  the background to the ongoing 
relationship between Mr W and his previous employer). 
Regardless as to what On-Line and the financial adviser has said during this complaint  about 
what was disclosed by Mr W, as I said in the provisional decision, the evidence is that Mr W 
was concerned about the status  of his pension with his ex-employer  when he met with the 
adviser. Mr W has confirmed that. It is also reflected to a certain extent in the advisers 
suitability letter  although that is a reference to do with the ex-employers financial standing, 
not any particular  dispute that employer may have had with Mr W. Concern with the financial 
standing of a business is not the same  thing as a particular action that might  be taken by that 
business against an employee.  
Mr W has queried whether he viewed the Suitability  Report. Mr W is correct  that the copy  
retained by On-Line is not signed  by him. It is not a requirement that such reports are signed 
 but On-Lines version did provide that option.  There is a copy  of a letter  dated 11 March 
2013 from On-Line  to Mr W that sets out a copy of the Suitability Report is enclosed and 
asks for it to be signed and returned. It is unclear whether this happened. But the evidence  is 
that it was more likely sent to Mr W. I believe it is evidence of what  was recommended  at the 
time. 
The evidence is that there was concern and so there  was motivation for Mr W to be 
considering a transfer  there  had been certain  ongoing employment  related matters 
between Mr W and his ex-employer (that I will not go into detail about here) which  were 
giving Mr W concern about his pension. 
Whilst I do recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling  that the adviser told him that a transfer  was 
his only option  and was set on that course  of action, the evidence does not support that. As 
discussed in the provisional  decision, the clear advice set out in the suitability report was not 
Ref: DRN28135984to transfer and that this was unlikely to be in Mr Ws best interests.  There is an absence  of 
supporting evidence that the adviser told Mr W that he should transfer based on a specific  
concern that his previous  employer might seek to alter his pension  benefits.  Or supporting  
evidence that the adviser  was asked specifically about the previous employer altering Mr 
Ws pension benefits. That cannot necessarily be read into a conversation where  the adviser 
learned of Mr Ws financial experience. 
I believe the reference to transferring being the only option in the suitability report has been 
taken out of context.  As set out in the provisional  decision, that statement  is contained  in the 
following paragraph:
If you remained in the (previous employers) Pension Scheme you would not have the 
investment options  that you are seeking. Your main objective is to have the transfer value of 
your pensions under your control and to invest in the market using your professional 
experience in this field. You also wish to protect  the value of the fund as you have no 
confidence in (previous employer) as an institution. As such a transfer-out is your only 
option, but please be advised that this is not a recommendation by me.
What the adviser  is setting out is that if Mr W has those requirements/has that opinion,  then 
he has to transfer  to achieve the results he requires  (achieve the investment aims and 
distance the pension from the previous employer). The adviser does not recommend that 
course of action and clearly states he is not doing  so. 
So the documented advice was not to transfer.  And the disadvantages of that were  set out. 
Whilst Mr W was not a pension specialist, I believe his background and qualifications were 
such that he could  appreciate the material ramifications of transferring his pension.  Those  
qualifications are set out on the FCA Register and Mr W has made submissions  about  his 
employment history and role. My view in that respect is not determined  by only what  was 
recorded when  the advice  was given but what factually was Mr Ws experience.  Whether the 
On-Line adviser  knew of such qualifications or permissions is not relevant to my view of this 
complaint. The fact is that Mr W had such qualifications/permissions and therefore more 
likely had a good  understanding of, or could appreciate, the financial matters being  
discussed. Mr W did not need to have specific pension qualifications to appreciate what  was 
being set out about  the ramifications  of the transfer. 
Mr W had a motivation to transfer  that pension, including  a documented desire  to manage 
pension investments or invest them as he wished. Whether or not he chose specific  
businesses or managers  to then manage  those  investments does not affect that  he chose 
what areas to invest in and could fully appreciate the risk.  I do not know that exact nature of 
the verbal discussions between Mr W and the adviser  but the evidence does not support a 
finding that the adviser recommended such a transfer or told Mr W that was his only option. 
So the evidence  is that Mr W decided to transfer based on his own motivations. As I said in 
the provision decision,  even  if the adviser was aware of the specific  concerns Mr W says he 
told him about, he couldnt  have offered any guarantees about what  might happen in respect 
of his pension.  
I do not agree that the adviser stating that Mr W would have to be an insistent  client is 
evidence of him manipulating  the process as Mr W says. What  is being set out is that the 
adviser cannot recommend the transfer.  So Mr W would have to insist  on the transfer 
against his advice if that were to go ahead. When the transaction  is termed  non-advised it 
means that the adviser is recommending a transfer  not go ahead.  That is the advice. In 
Ref: DRN28135985these specific circumstances I believe Mr W more likely did wish to go ahead 
notwithstanding the documented advice by the adviser. 
It is worth noting that, even if this complaint was upheld, I  would not in any event award 
redress that compensated for any losses caused  by Mr Ws choice of subsequent 
investment. That was clearly his decision  and he had a professional background that would 
allow him to make such decisions and be aware of the risks of that. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28135986copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr W has complained about the advice  he received to transfer his final salary pension 
benefits into a new Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP). He believes that as a result of 
this transfer he has been financially disadvantaged. He says he was concerned about the 
status of his existing occupational pension and the steps his previous employer might take 
that might affect his benefits. He says he was not advised by the adviser acting for On-Line 
that this would not happen and could not happen. He therefore thought that in transferring  
his pension he was protecting his benefits as opposed to potentially  forfeiting them.  
background
On-Line met with Mr W in November 2012  to discuss his retirement  planning.
A fact find was completed recording Mr Ws financial circumstances and objectives. The 
fact find noted that Mr W was 51 and working as a stock exchange trader on a self-employed  
basis. It was further noted that his gross  annual earnings were £80,000, his main residence  
was worth £3.5M and he had a second property worth £600,000. Details  of other  assets and 
investments were not disclosed. It was recorded that Mr W had a speculative attitude to 
investment risk.
On 30 November 2012 Mr Ws final salary pension scheme issued a Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value  (CETV) quotation, which gave a transfer value of about £1M.
In March 2013 Mr W signed the forms issued by the pension scheme to proceed  with the 
transfer. A suitability  report  dated 9 March 2012 was provided to Mr W. This report  outlined  
Mr Ws circumstances and noted  that he had expressed an interest in transferring his final 
salary pension scheme into a SIPP, with a view to investing in speculative  Contracts For 
Difference (CFD) trades.
In April 2013 about £1M was transferred  into the SIPP.
On-Line did not uphold  Mr Ws complaint. It said that there were reasons why Mr W wished 
to transfer his pension, including his wish to be able to personally manage his pension. It 
said that it advised Mr W not to transfer  and he had the knowledge  and experience to make  
his own investments. 
 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was considered  by an adjudicator. Our 
adjudicator upheld the complaint on the following basis:
Based  on appropriate  rates of assumed return and the critical  yield calculated by 
On-Line, it was likely  that Mr W would receive less income at retirement  if he 
transferred. 
On-Line did not provide guidance on the intended investment choice  CFD trading 
and what returns might  be expected. 
Despite On-Line saying it would be proceeding on a non-advised basis  i.e. facilitating 
the transfer, they recommended him not to proceed. The adjudicator found this 
contradictory.
Ref: DRN28135987As Mr W had requested advice it wasnt possible for them  to treat Mr W as an 
execution only client.
Mr W was concerned  as to whether his pension benefits would be at risk following a 
dispute with his then employer which was his principal concern for seeking advice 
and this wasnt clearly  addressed 
On-Line did not agree  with the adjudicators findings. In summary it said:
Mr W is a Stock Broker and a market  maker. When he met with On-Line he was 
unhappy with his previous  employer and his loss of employment.  
Mr W wanted to control  his pension fund and invest the fund in the way that he 
wanted to. He wanted to cut all his ties with his previous employer and have 
complete control over these pension monies. 
Mr W was advised and at all times told not to transfer his pension  from his previous 
employer. 
Mr W wasnt advised that his previous employers pension  was at risk of being  taken 
away. Mr W wanted to transfer his pension away from his previous employer as 
quickly as possible and make  his own investments. These investments included start 
up business, family business and CFDs.
Mr W was a professional investor,  was classified as such  and made his own 
decisions as to what to invest  in  he used a third party firm of stockbrokers  and he 
received advice from that party. He was classified as an insistent customer.
It was made clear to Mr W that only a speculative level of return would provide the 
kind of returns that would match those given up from his previous employers 
scheme. 
Given Mr Ws experience and background  he was aware of the high investment risk 
he was taking and the risk with the pension transfer. 
It highlighted a section  from the pension transfer suitability report in which  it was 
stated that the transaction is highly  speculative, that Mr W was making his own 
decision as to whether  to proceed  and that it advised him not to proceed.
With regard to the timing of the completion of the transfer, the actual  form used to 
execute the transfer was signed on 3 April 2013, which is 25 days  after Mr W signed  
the suitability report. This gave him more than three weeks  to consider his position 
and the findings in the report.  
Mr W had plenty of time to change  his mind.  The transfer completed  on 8 April 2013 
which gave him 30 days  to change his mind  about  the transfer.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28135988I have seen a Pension  Transfer Suitability Report  for Mr W dated 9 March 2013. This set 
out that Mr W had a final salary (defined benefit) pension  with a transfer value of around 
£1M and another pension worth about  £220,000.  Mr W was said to be a speculative  investor  
 and it was explained that this would lead to:  
exposing their capital/investment to a very high level of risk and this may at times cause 
them to lose the whole  amount.
It was also set out that:
Your Aims  and Objectives
From the information supplied to us the most  important factors are:
 You wish to use your experience as a Stock Broker  and invest in CFDs (Contracts for 
Difference) using your knowledge in the market.
 You wish invest in specialist areas  of the market  as you are experienced in this field.
 You are an industry professional able to manage your own investments.
 You also wish to be advised of other mainstream  investments to provide lower  risk for 
some of the fund value.
 Furthermore you are concerned that such a large benefit should be returned to your wife 
and family  in a tax free cash  payment  on death rather  than a reduced 50% spouses 
pension.
 You are not confident  of (previous employers) financial position with regards  to honouring 
the pension and would rather have the transfer value in a private pension  plan
Please note that although you are an industry  professional for investments you are not a 
pension specialist and so for the purpose  of this transaction, we have classified you as a 
retail client.
And:
If you remained in the (previous employers) Pension Scheme you would not have the 
investment options  that you are seeking. Your main objective is to have the transfer value of 
your pensions under your control and to invest in the market using your professional 
experience in this field. You also wish to protect  the value of the fund as you have no 
confidence in (previous employer) as an institution. As such a transfer-out is your only 
option, but please be advised that this is not a recommendation by me.
The report  went on to discuss that the transfer would be poor value based on the level of 
returns that would be needed to match that given up by leaving the final salary  scheme. 
There followed a recommendation:
Recommendation
This transaction is highly  speculative based on your wish to invest  in speculative  CFD trades  
and other  financial  instruments that as a professional you are familiar  with. It is not possible 
for me to make a recommendation for this transfer  and the resulting investments and so this 
transaction is to be classified as: a non-advised  informed choice sale.
Ref: DRN28135989This means  that we supply all the data that you should require in order  to make  your own 
decision based on that data. If you have overriding reasons  to proceed with the transfer out 
and make an investment  to a your existing SIPP for the purpose of self trading then this is to 
be non advised  informed choice sale.
My recommendation to you regarding this transfer,
not to proceed
And:
Transfer Warning
When you transfer out from the (previous employers) Pension Scheme you are losing a 
guaranteed benefit, and it is likely that you will be financially worse  off in retirement due to 
the high critical yield required. Once you transfer  out you cannot move back  into the 
(previous employers)  Pension Scheme.
It is clear that Mr W had an extensive background in financial services.  He had held several 
positions over many  years, mainly concerned with equities trading. He is recorded on the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Financial Services Register as having  held several  controlled  
functions. These are essentially  financial services  approvals which  allow an individual to 
give advice on, or deal in, such matters as regulated investments.  
The register  indicates  Mr W held the controlled  functions of:
CF1 Director  from 2001  2012
CF21 Investment Adviser from 2001-2007 
CF30 Customer from 2007-12
So, I do believe that Mr W could be reasonably classed as a professional  investor, at least in 
terms of investments. Whilst Mr W may not have had a background in pensions, I do believe 
it is likely  that he would  understand  generally  the main  types  of pension products, such  as 
money purchase and final salary  schemes  as well as the fact that there are guarantees with 
respect to final salary schemes  that do not exist with the money purchase scheme he was 
transferring to. In any event I believe he would also be able to understand the information 
the adviser set out in the suitability report  and could question  that if he did not believe it 
was accurate in terms of his intentions. 
The adviser set out on several occasions in the suitability report  that he did not recommend 
Mr W transfer and that the transfer was not in his best interests.  He said this especially given 
Mr Ws intention  was to invest in CFDs   which are high risk. 
I do not believe that On-Lines decision then to enable the transfer  or then recommend a 
SIPP is contradictory. There  is nothing  necessarily wrong in On-Line stating that it does not 
recommend a transfer but then administering  that transfer, or a pension  to transfer to, if the 
client still decides that they wish to proceed.  That is not prohibited.  
Furthermore, I believe that given Mr Ws background he would have been aware that the 
route he was taking was very risky  that he was giving up guaranteed  benefits that could  
only be matched should  he be able to achieve high returns  on future investments  
investments which  he would have known were  speculative  and high risk. His background 
would have made him acutely aware  of the risks of CFD trading. On-Line  is not in my view 
Ref: DRN281359810responsible for Mr Ws choice of investments  it made it clear  it wasnt  advising on that and 
Mr W clearly had the wherewithal to make  his own fully informed investment decisions.
So on the face of it I would  not say that On-Line gave  unsuitable  advice or is liable for Mr 
Ws decision to transfer. 
However, Mr W has said that he would not have transferred but for a crucial matter   which 
was whether his previous employer could  make changes to or sanction his pension.  He 
says that if he was aware at the time this could  not happen then he would not have 
transferred. He says the adviser  did not tell him that his pension  could not be affected in that 
way.
The On-Line  adviser,  in response to the adjudicators assessment, has said he was not 
aware of Mr Ws concerns about  his previous employer potentially seeking  to recover or 
reduce his pension benefits. He has said that Mr W was unhappy with the termination of his 
employment with his previous employer and wished to, cut all his ties with the (previous 
employer) and have complete control  over these pension monies. The adviser also said that 
he did not say to Mr W that his pension was at risk, and Mr W was keen to transfer  so that 
he could manage  his investments himself. 
Mr Ws concerns  about his previous employer and his pension  are not recorded on any of 
the financial planning documentation I have seen.  And I have not seen any statements from 
the adviser or On-Line  that his pension  was at risk. Mr Ws concern however is with the 
absence of any advice  of this nature. But for that to be a factor  then the adviser would  need  
to know of it. Mr W says that he was, but it is difficult, particularly considering  the advisers 
comments and the documentary evidence to say that it is more  likely than not that the 
adviser was aware  and did not nothing to dispel the impression that the pension benefits 
might be at risk. 
I have also considered that, even if the adviser was aware of what Mr W says was his 
primary concern, he could not have made  definitive statements that his pension  would never  
be affected. That might be unlikely, but it could  not be ruled out. So Mr W would have been 
faced with the same decision  if he did want full control of his pension.
 
What is also recorded  is Mr Ws desire to manage  investments himself and the ability  to 
make speculative investments. My understanding is that Mr W did go on to do so  investing  
in some smaller  companies and CFDs. Mr Ws background and experience would  tend to 
indicate he would be comfortable with doing this and he might have valued the opportunity 
more than the guaranteed  benefits  from the final salary scheme. 
It is also indicated that Mr W wished for a complete separation from his previous employer. 
Given the evidence  I have seen that is certainly plausible and Mr W would have his own 
reasons for having compete control  over his pension.
in summary  
Given all the evidence  I cannot say that On-line advised Mr W incorrectly  in respect of the 
pension transfer  or incorrectly in administering the transfer. Furthermore I do not believe, 
based on the evidence I have seen,  that the adviser misled Mr W in respect of the safety  of 
his pension. Even then,  if the adviser had given guidance, such  as he could, about the 
security of his pension, I do not believe  it has been  demonstrated that Mr W wouldnt still 
have transferred.    
Ref: DRN281359811my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  the complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept
or reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813598