K822xcomplaint
Mr S, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  about  investment 
advice given to him by Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint  
should be upheld.
I felt the capital-guaranteed Protected  Portfolio recommended to Mr S wasnt  a particularly 
straightforward product.  I noted that it didnt simply track the performance of the FTSE index 
as a whole  or a wider portfolio. Conversely, it was very narrow  in its scope  with its 
performance based upon 30 blue chip company  shares.  
I thought that recommending that a large proportion  of Mr S money be invested in it lacked 
diversity. The suitability  letter did suggest that there was some discussion of this issue. But it 
read to me as if the adviser did little to explain to Mr S why his apparent desire to have all his 
capital invested  in one area was unwise and increased the risk associated  with the 
investment. 
I also noted that despite the capital protection there was risk involved with the Protected 
Portfolio. Not only that there might be little or no return  achieved at the end of five years,  at a 
time when  the Bank of England base rate was around 4  5 %. But also that if Mr S needed 
to access the money his capital would be at risk and he would  likely  make a loss. 
I said I appreciated that these risks and the way in which the product worked  were  set out in 
the documentation supplied to Mr S. But I felt it was nevertheless the responsibility  of the 
adviser to ensure that any recommendation was suitable for Mr S needs and circumstances. 
And ultimately I didnt  think this was. 
I suggested that Mr S be compensated based upon  a comparison of the performance of the 
recommended investment  with our low-risk benchmark.
Mr S CMC accepted my decision.  L&G didnt. It said, in brief;
It was unclear whether my view was that the entire advice given was unsuitable and 
that none of Mr S money shouldve been  invested in a capital  protected product. 
Id said that the investment, although capital protected, involved risk if Mr S had 
needed to access  it early. But that would also have  been  the case with the scenario 
Id used for compensation.
If Mr S had been invested in the low-risk environment  Id suggested the same  risk 
would apply. It was wrong to disregard  his requirement for capital protection.
It didn't think that Id come to a fair outcome as Id completely contradicted  the 
findings of the investigator. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN26325612For clarity,  my view is that the recommendation that Mr S place £20,000  nearly 60% of his 
available money   into this single investment product,  with potential returns based on the 
performance of only 30 shares  was unsuitable  and lacked diversity.
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that having reached this conclusion  it was difficult  
to determine what Mr S might otherwise have done  if hed been  more suitably advised. And 
its not the case that I disregarded the capital protection issue. I said:
He was recorded  as having a low/medium  attitude to risk. But this was described in more 
detail as including no capital risk, with only a risk to the level of return. So theres an 
argument that Mr S should be compensated by way of a comparison with our no-risk 
benchmark, which uses fixed-rate bond  rates. 
But looking  at the situation in the round I think our 50/50 benchmark  is a more reasonable 
comparison as it reflects a degree  of stock market  and other  asset performance, which I 
think wouldve been suitable for Mr S. I appreciate it effectively  overlooks the issue  of capital 
protection on the whole  amount, an apparent  desire  of Mr S. But determining  fair redress in 
these sorts  or circumstances is rarely  an exact  science and Im satisfied using the 50/50 
benchmark is fair and reasonable  in this case.
I note L&Gs  point about there  being  risks with early surrender in any event. But these would 
have been reduced if some element  of diversity had been introduced  and Mr S had invested 
across a variety of products  the type of environment that the 50/50 benchmark is intended 
to reflect. 
Ultimately, it may have been  suitable to place  some of his money into the Protected Portfolio 
as part of a well-balanced, diversified investment strategy. But that wasnt what  was 
recommended. So I remain  of the view that the compensation  I suggested previously is fair 
and reasonable,  with further detail given below.        
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr S circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  L&G do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  L&G must:
Compare the performance of Mr S investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
L&G should also pay interest as set out below.
Ref: DRN26325613Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Protected 
Portfoliomaturedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  L&G should  
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean  that Mr S 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
Ref: DRN26325614reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained  from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold  
the complaint  and direct Legal  & General (Portfolio  Management Services) Ltd to pay 
compensation to Mr S as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26325615COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr S, represented by a claims  management company  (CMC), complains about investment advice 
given to him by Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services)  Ltd.
 
background
In December 2001 Mr S was in his early 40s and working full-time in a self-employed capacity. Hed 
accumulated a sum of around  £34,000 on deposit, in a cash ISA and a TESSA. 
He was advised to invest £20,000 of this amount  into the Protected Portfolio product. This product 
invested in a portfolio of 30 leading shares for a fixed term of five years  and provided  capital security 
at the fifth anniversary.  
Any return from the product  was based on the performance of each individual share over the five year 
period, giving  up to a maximum  100% of any increase each share achieved, averaged  over the final 
12 months of the term. 
In effect, the maximum  return that could  be achieved would be a doubling of the original investment 
amount if all 30 shares increased by 100% or more. Conversely, if all the shares  simply maintained 
their value, or fell, only the original capital would be returned. The likelihood was that the return would 
be something in between these two outcomes
Mr S CMC complained to L&G but it felt the advice  had been suitable. In brief, it noted  that the advice 
had left Mr S with a reasonable  emergency  fund,  was consistent with his categorisation  as a 
low/medium risk investor and was provided after detailed discussions of the product and alternatives.  
The CMC didnt agree  and referred  the complaint  to this service. Our investigator initially felt the 
complaint should be upheld but upon reflection concluded  that the advice had been suitable for Mr S. 
As the CMC didnt agree, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so Im currently of the view originally reached by the 
investigator  I think the complaint should be upheld  because  the recommendation wasnt suitable for 
Mr S.
Mr S was self-employed and earned a modest annual  income of £15,000.  He had managed  to save 
£34,000 quite prudently using an ISA and a TESSA,  but had never invested before. As such, I cant  
see that it was suitable for him to make his first inroad into risk-based investments via a commitment 
of nearly 60% of that money and into a fairly  niche  product, the return  from which  was based solely on 
the performance of 30 specific shares. 
In my view this wasnt a particularly  straightforward product. It didnt, for instance, simply track  the 
performance of the FTSE index as a whole  or a wider portfolio. Conversely, it was very narrow in its 
scope  albeit the 30 shares were leading,  company shares. 
So this recommendation of a large  proportion  of Mr S money entirely lacked diversity. I note the 
suitability letter suggests  there  was some discussion of this issue. But it reads to me as if the adviser 
did little to explain to Mr S why his apparent desire to have  all his capital invested  in one area was 
unwise and increased the risk associated with the investment. 
And despite  the capital protection there  was risk involved with the Protected  Portfolio.  Not only that 
there might be little or no return achieved  at the end of five years,  at a time when  the Bank of England  
Ref: DRN26325616base rate was around 4  5 %. But also that if Mr S needed to access  the money his capital would be 
at risk and he would likely make a loss. 
I appreciate that these  risks and the general  way in which  the product worked were  set out in the 
documentation supplied to Mr S. But it was nevertheless the responsibility of the adviser to ensure 
that any recommendation was suitable for Mr S needs and circumstances. And ultimately  I dont think 
this was. 
In respect of how Mr S should be compensated its difficult  to say what he might have otherwise done 
if hed been more suitably  advised. He was recorded as having a low/medium attitude to risk. But this 
was described  in more  detail as including  no capital  risk, with only a risk to the level of return. So 
theres an argument that Mr S should be compensated by way of a comparison with our no-risk  
benchmark, which uses fixed-rate bond rates.  
But looking  at the situation  in the round I think our 50/50 benchmark is a more reasonable 
comparison as it reflects  a degree  of stock market and other asset performance, which  I think 
wouldve been  suitable for Mr S. I appreciate it effectively overlooks the issue of capital protection on 
the whole amount, an apparent desire of Mr S. But determining fair redress in these  sorts  or 
circumstances is rarely  an exact science and Im satisfied using  the 50/50  benchmark  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.  So L&G should therefore calculate  compensation  on that basis.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  I intend to uphold the 
complaint and direct  Legal & General  (Portfolio Management  Services)  Ltd to pay compensation  to 
Mr S as set out above.  I will provide full details in my final decision,  should the complaint go on to be 
upheld.
Ref: DRN2632561