K821x#15Complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  continued to applying  charges 
to his overdraft, which  it shouldnt have provided  him with in the first place, when he was in 
financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 15 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Lloyds  confirmed having  received my decision. But it didnt provide anything 
for me to think about or ask for any additional  time to do so. 
Mr R also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He said that he accepted my 
provisional decision and he didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr Rs complaint in my provisional decision. 
And, in the absence  of anything further  from either  party, I see no reason to change  my 
conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Rs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from October 2013  onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to October  2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Rs credit file. 
Ref: DRN28158892 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 15 February 2021, Im 
upholding Mr Rs complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC should put things  right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN28158893COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
Complaint
Mr R has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  unfairly continued  to applying charges to his overdraft, 
which it shouldnt  have provided him with in the first place, when he was in financial  difficulty.
Background
One of our investigators  looked  at this complaint and didnt  think Lloyds had done anything  wrong or had treated  
Mr R unfairly. Mr R disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.   
My provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking  at 
whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying overdraft charges.  So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted  unfairly when  it continued  charging 
overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed  Mr Rs overdraft in October 2013. By this point, it was 
evident Mr Rs use of his overdraft  was unsustainable. A cursory look at his statements leading up to the renewal  
shows that he never  had a credit balance on his account after his overdraft limit had been increased to £2,500.00 
in November 2012. His statements also show a cycle of repeated payday borrowing. I can see payments  to at 
least five different  lenders of this type in the lead up to the renewal.
In these circumstances, it ought  to have  been  apparent that Mr Rs salary was unlikely  to be enough  to repay 
what he owed  within a reasonable period  of time with overdraft interest, fees and associated charges  being  
added. So Lloyds should  have stopped  providing the overdraft on the same  terms and treated Mr R with 
forbearance rather than adding even more  fees and charges on the overdraft.
So all of this means  that Lloyds  should have  realised that Mr R was experiencing financial difficulty,  wasnt  using 
his overdraft as intended  and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Lloyds  didnt react to Mr 
Rs overdraft usage and instead  continued charging in the same way, I think  it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr R ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im intending to say that Mr R lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it 
should put things  right.
Fair compensation  what Im intending  to say Lloyds  needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Lloyds to put things  right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges  applied to it from 
October 2013 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance  remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments  have been made Lloyds 
should contact  Mr R to arrange  a suitable  repayment plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to 
record negative information on Mr Rs credit  file, it should backdate this to October 2013.
OR
If the effect  of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there  no longer being an 
outstanding balance,  then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr R along  
with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from the date they were made (if they were) until the 
date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have  been made, then 
Lloyds should remove  any adverse information  from Mr Rs credit file. 
Ref: DRN28158894 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give    Mr R a certificate  
showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional  decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint and tell Lloyds Bank PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless  the comments  and evidence I get by 1 March 2021 changes my mind, thats  what Ill tell Lloyds  to do in 
my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815889