K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Miss S. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2010 to cover  a personal loan. St Andrews 
sold Miss S the policy by phone around the same time she started  the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Miss S and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
I have listened  to a recording of the sales call, and St Andrews did make  Miss S aware  that 
the PPI was optional.
St Andrews  recommended the PPI to Miss S, but her representatives have said the 
recommendation was unsuitable. This is because  she was entitled to 12 months  work  
sickness benefits, and the PPI potentially paid out for only a standard  12 months in case  of 
absence from work  due to sickness. However, I think there  was still a potential use for the 
PPI. It would have paid out on top of the work  sickness benefits, so Miss S would potentially  
have been better off long term. And it paid out if she was made redundant. 
But, more  importantly, the recording shows that the sales adviser made clear the length of 
time the PPI would pay out, and mentioned that this would be on top of her work  benefits. He 
also clearly set out the monthly cost of the PPI. He then asked Miss S if she wanted to take 
it. She paused to think about it and then she asked whether  she would be able to cancel it. 
The adviser said she could cancel, and said how many days  notice shed have to give.  She 
then said, Ok yes Ill take that then.
So I think the adviser gave the essential  information  Miss S needed  to make a decision,  
including setting out the relevant limitations  in the policy he was recommending. There were  
other terms to the policy, but I dont think better information on those would have changed  
Miss Ss decision. 
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint for the reasons  given above. 
Ref: DRN27405862Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740586