K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited gave him 
unsuitable pension  advice. In particular he says the advice he received to transfer deferred 
benefits from an occupational pension scheme and to take out a personal pension  was not 
suitable.
background
Factfind information recorded by SLoC  in 1994, set out that Mr D was 48 years  old, married 
and working for an employer that didnt offer an occupational pension scheme.
Mr Ds salary was recorded as £13,000 per year. Mr D had a mortgage of £60,000, held 
jointly with his wife and he owned  a second property outright, worth about  £75,000. It was 
noted that Mr D received  rental income of around  £6,000 per year.
It appears that at the time Mr D was paying  £50 gross per month into a personal pension. 
Mr Ds attitude to investment risk was recorded as six on a scale of one to ten.
The adviser also noted that Mr D had deferred  pension benefits in a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  (OPS). The transfer  value of Mr Ds deferred  benefits was 
around £16,000.
A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report was sent to Mr D in August  1994. The report  set 
out that a critical  yield of just under 10.5% was needed to match  the benefits Mr D would 
receive from his deferred benefits in the OPS.
SLoC advised Mr D to transfer  his OPS benefits  to a personal  pension plan. It said that Mr D 
might receive a higher income in retirement  if he moved his deferred OPS benefits  to a 
personal pension.  It explained  that the actual return would depend on the investment 
performance of the funds  Mr D was invested  in. 
It said it felt the growth rate of 10.49% needed  to match  the benefits Mr D was giving up was 
possible given his attitude to investment risk. The adviser recommended  that Mr D should 
invest in SLoCs managed  fund. It also explained  that, in the short term, the death  benefits 
Mr Ds beneficiaries would receive would be lower  if he transferred his OPS benefits.
Mr D went ahead with the recommendation  and his deferred OPS  benefits were transferred 
to a personal pension in late 1994.  
I understand that in 2006 Mr D took 25% of this pension  pot as tax-free  cash and the 
remaining pot was moved to different  provider.  At the time Mr D took the tax free cash the 
value of this pot had increased to around £33,000.
In 1999 Mr D met with his SLoC adviser  again. The adviser noted that Mr D wanted to 
increase his pension provision. Factfind  information recorded at the time shows  that Mr D 
was still working for the same employer earning  around £15,000  per year and was not 
eligible to join an occupational pension scheme. It appears that Mr D was still contributing  
£50 per month to a personal pension and his attitude to investment risk was again  assessed 
as six on a scale of one to ten.
Ref: DRN28728272SLoC advised Mr D to take out a new personal  pension with an initial  gross  monthly  
contribution of £130. Mr D was advised  to invest in a managed fund. Mr D went  ahead with 
the recommendation.
In 2009, this pension pot was valued at around  £22,000. Mr D took 25% of this as tax-free 
cash and moved the remaining pot to another provider.
In late 2018 Mr D complained to SLoC  he said he didnt think the advice he received in 1994 
to transfer the deferred benefits  from his occupational pension scheme and take out a new 
personal pension  in 1999 was suitable.
SLoC didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint and said it felt the advice to transfer his deferred OPS 
benefits and take out a personal pension had been suitable.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with SLoCs response  and brought  his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said that, 
based on the information available at the time, he didnt think the advice Mr D received to 
transfer his deferred pension benefits from his OPS had been unsuitable given his personal 
and financial  circumstances and his attitude  to investment risk. 
Likewise, he said he thought the advice  given in 1999 to take out a personal  pension had 
been suitable given Mr Ds circumstances at that time. 
He noted that the point of sale information Mr D had been given when he took out the 
personal pension  made  clear that the projected  growth rates used were not guaranteed and 
that the return Mr D would receive would depend upon the investment performance of the 
underlying funds.
Mr D accepted our investigators view that the advice to take out a personal pension in 1999 
was suitable for his personal circumstances.
But he said he did not accept our investigators view on the advice he received to transfer 
out of his OPS  in 1994. He said:
Clearly, had I been advised that this pension would  not reach the 10.49%  then I would 
obviously not have  considered a transfer.  I have to reiterate  that I was advised  that it was 
in my interest to transfer to SunLife. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all that has been said and provided about  this complaint. As Mr D 
has said he accepts our investigators view that the advice  he received from SLoC in 1999 to 
take out a personal pension was suitable for his circumstances  at that time I wont comment  
on that aspect  of Mr Ds complaint other  than to say I agree  with our investigators  view.
I have reviewed all the information that was gathered about Mr Ds personal  and financial 
circumstances in 1994, when he was advised  to transfer deferred benefits from a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme.  
Ref: DRN28728273It is not in dispute  that, with the benefit  of hindsight,  Mr D would have been better off leaving 
his deferred benefits in the OPS. It is always disappointing when an investment does not 
perform as well as expected. But this, in itself, does not mean that the advice to transfer  was 
unsuitable.
In order to uphold  Mr Ds complaint I would need  to be satisfied that  at the time the advice 
was given  the adviser  ought  to reasonably  have  known that the advice  to transfer was 
unsuitable for Mr D based on his personal and financial circumstances. 
Having very carefully  considered this matter  I cant safely find that the adviser could 
reasonably have been expected to know that Mr D was likely to be worse off as a result  of 
the advice. Nor do I think that the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable  Ill explain  why.
As our investigator explained Mr Ds pension transfer wasnt included in the industry wide 
pensions review as it was transferred after the end date of the review. But when  considering 
this complaint I have  taken account  of the regulators view on pension  transfers.  The 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys starting  position is that: 
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out  
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
I have very carefully considered whether the advice to transfer his deferred OPS benefits 
was in Mr Ds best interests.
In 1994, when Mr D was advised to transfer his deferred benefits, he was 48 years  old. His 
attitude to investment risk was recorded as six in a scale of one ten. This indicates that 
Mr D was willing to take some investment risk with the intention of achieving a better  
investment return.
Information provided to Mr D in 1994 set out that the critical yield  the level of investment 
growth required to match  the benefits  Mr D was giving  up in his OPS - was 10.49%. In other 
words, his pension  pot needed to grow by 10.49% each year in order to match  the benefits 
Mr D would have been entitled to from his OPS at age 65. 
As our investigator set out, the regulator published  discount rates  for the industry wide 
pension review. These discount  rates  set out what was considered reasonably  achievable 
investment growth  for use in loss assessment  calculations as part of the pension review.
As I explained above, Mr Ds pension transfer wasnt  included in the industry wide pensions  
review as it was transferred after the end date of the review.  But the published discount rates 
give an indication of what rate of investment  growth was considered reasonable at the time 
Mr D transferred his OPS benefits.  
Based on the transfer date of November  1994  with a 17 year term until retirement  the 
discount rate was 10.3%.  In other  words,  at the time the advice was given in 1994, a growth 
rate of 10.3% per year was considered reasonable.
Ref: DRN28728274In view of I cant reasonably say that, at the time the advice was given, the adviser could 
have been expected to know  or think that a critical yield of 10.49%  was unlikely to be 
achieved. Likewise, I dont think the adviser could have foreseen the fall in interest rates  that 
has had such a significant impact on annuity  rates.
In reaching this view I have taken into account  that Mr Ds attitude to investment risk was 
rated a six on a scale of one to ten. This indicates  that Mr D was willing to take some 
investment risk in the hope  of achieving a better return.
I am also mindful that the letter, dated  September 1994, setting out why SLoC thought Mr D 
should transfer his deferred  OPS benefits  to a personal pension  plan set out:
The Investment  Growth  rate of 10.49% required to equal the schemes projected pension 
benefits is reasonable, in view of your attitude  to risk.
The [name of Mr Ds former employer] Pension  scheme provides death  benefits in the form 
of a lump sum, spouse's pension and children's  pension in the event of your death  both 
before or after reaching retirement  age. In view of your personal circumstances you have 
indicated that you do not require these  benefits and by transferring to a Personal Pension  
Plan there is a possibility  that your personal pension income may be increased.
We would  advise that as you do have a spouse  that in the short term death benefits are 
likely to be reduced on transfer; however in the long term there  is the possibility that the 
death benefits may be increased under a Personal Pension Plan. You have indicated that 
guarantees under a Pension  Scheme are less important for your needs, than the prospect  of 
investment growth.
I think this letter made clear the investment  risk Mr D would be exposed  to if he transferred 
his deferred OPS benefits. It also made  clear that there was no guarantee that Mr D would 
be better off if he went ahead with the transfer. It set out the guarantees Mr D was giving up 
and said he had indicated  that the the prospect of investment growth was more important to 
that the guarantees he was eligible for from his OPS. 
Having very carefully  considered this matter  I think SLoC explained the risks involved to 
Mr D and made clear that there was no guarantee that he would be better off in retirement if 
he transferred his deferred OPS benefits. At the time the advice was given I dont think 
anyone could reasonably have foreseen that the level of investment growth  would be much 
lower that the projections used, or that annuity rates would  be much lower.
In view of this, although I am sympathetic  to Mr Ds position,  I dont think the advice he 
received to transfer his OPS was unsuitable.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
Ref: DRN28728275ombudsman
Ref: DRN2872827