K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Specialist Motor  
Finance Limited  (SMF) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr A took receipt of a used car in December 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF. At the point of supply the car was about eight years  old and 
had completed about  54,000 miles.
Mr A had problems changing  gears and said the car was sluggish and there  was excessive 
engine noise. He complained to SMF and they arranged  an independent inspection of the 
car. 
The inspector noted that that there was a rattling  from the flywheel. He concluded that the 
issue was with the clutch/fly wheel damper but he thought  it was most likely this issue had 
developed whilst Mr A had been  in possession of the car.
So SMF didnt uphold  Mr As complaint. They explained that they were  only responsible for 
the quality of the car when supplied  to Mr A and not for problems that developed 
subsequently.
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  considered the evidence. 
He noted the car had completed  about 2,500 miles whilst in Mr As possession  and he didnt 
think an issue of this type would be unexpected in a vehicle of this age and mileage. So he 
agreed with the inspector who had suggested  the current problem was associated  with wear 
and tear and he didnt  think  it would be fair to hold SMF responsible. He noted that Mr A had 
submitted a diagnostic  form with evidence of other faults with his car. But the adjudicator  
thought these additional issues were  very much  examples of usual wear and tear and he still 
wasnt persuaded to suggest SMF needed  to take any action.
Mr A was disappointed with the adjudicators view. He said the car was sitting on his drive  
and he could not afford the bill to repair it. He therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN22992462Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr A. The car here 
was around eight years old and had travelled about  54,000 miles.
The independent inspector suggested the problem  with the clutch/flywheel  damper was 
something that had developed in service. He didnt think  it was most  likely that this fault 
had been present when  the car was supplied to Mr A. The inspector is an expert in these 
matters and has provided an independent view. Im therefore persuaded by his evidence  that 
this fault was not present  or developing when the car was supplied to Mr A. It seems 
reasonable to suggest that a problem of this nature could occur  on a car of this age and 
mileage due to normal  wear and tear. So I dont think SMF should be held responsible  for 
the repairs.
Ive also reviewed the diagnostic report that Mr A commissioned in September  2019. It 
raises similar issues to those mentioned by the independent inspector and also notes a fault 
code related to a potentially stuck Exhaust Gas Recirculation valve. Mr A has explained that 
the car has been  sitting on his drive since the failure  in March/April  2019.  The EGR valve  
wasnt a problem at that point and Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence the fault, if 
there is one, was present at the point of supply.
Im therefore  not asking  SMF to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2299246