K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  about the way National  Westminster Bank  Plc treated her in relation to her
mortgage when  she was in financial difficulties and unwell.
background
Ms P and her former spouse  began banking arrangements with NatWest  in around 2000.
In 2006 they took out a joint interest  only offset  mortgage for around £1,000,000  for a term of
25 years,  which  was secured over their residential property.
Ms P went through some very difficult times with her physical and mental  health  over a
number of years and, in particular, had a prolonged period of illness from 2013 onwards.
She was diagnosed with gender dysphoria in 2014  and underwent  some  surgical
procedures. She was classified as a vulnerable adult  under the Mental Health Act.
Ms P and her former spouse  began divorce proceedings in around January 2014  by which
time, through making overpayments, the balance of the mortgage had gone  down to around
£550,000. The divorce was concluded  in late 2015,  although  some of the financial details
werent clear  until later on.
Ms P says NatWest knew about her health issues from when  she told her personal banker in
2013 and again in early  2014. She wasnt able to work from around January 2014  and got
into financial  difficulties. She built up debts with NatWest on her personal charge and credit
cards, and on the overdraft on the joint current account linked to the mortgage with NatWest.
She wasnt able to repay them  or debts she owed  to other  creditors.
With support from a debt charity, Ms P came  to settlement arrangements  with other
creditors. NatWest agreed to accept part of what  she owed on her charge card. But it 
refused to agree a settlement for less than the amounts she owed on her credit  card or the
current account.
In around September 2016  NatWest  began court action  to recover  those amounts. NatWest
said it wanted to protect  its position by getting  a judgment for the debt Ms P owed and
securing it as a charge over the residential property so it would be paid when the house  was
sold. It said it didnt intend to force the sale of the property.
But NatWest  later started repossession action when the mortgage was in arrears and it
didnt accept an offer Ms P made to settle  the mortgage. That led to this complaint.
Ms P complained to this service about the mortgage in March  2017. She feels NatWest  put
unnecessary pressure on her to sell the property when shed already been  ordered to do this
by the court  and at a time when she was already  stressed and vulnerable. She thinks  it was
sold for less than it could  have been because it had to be sold quickly.  And shes said its
recently been sold for significantly  more, with only minor improvements having been  made  to
the property.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ps complaint that NatWest hadnt accepted her offer to pay off
the mortgage and was threatening legal action despite her financial difficulties. She felt the
action NatWest had taken was reasonable and didnt uphold  the complaint.
Ms P wasnt happy with our investigators  view. I looked at everything afresh to come to a
Ref: DRN22280072provisional decision about Ms Ps complaint. Some points hadnt been  covered in our 
investigators view. I looked at whether  it was fair for NatWest to withdraw  a payment 
arrangement Ms P said it had agreed with her in 2016, Ms Ps complaint NatWest didnt take 
into account overpayments when it looked  at the arrears on the mortgage account,  whether 
NatWests actions affected the sale price  of the property and its overall treatment of Ms P in 
relation to the mortgage.
The parties have  both now commented on my provisional decision.  Before I consider what  
theyve said and set out my final decision, Ive set out below an extract  from my provisional 
decision
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P says that her mental  capacity, physical health and gender identity were  impaired from
late 2013 onwards  and that she was and remained a vulnerable  adult. She had encephalitis
and other  health  conditions  which made it difficult for her to understand and take financial
decisions.
Ms P says she told a rep of NatWest about her health in 2013 and again in 2014. Theres a
dispute about what NatWest knew when. But NatWest acknowledged receipt of medical
evidence of her mental state in around July 2016 and seems to have involved a specialist
support team at about this time to help with its decision  making. So, NatWest was aware of
Ms Ps circumstances by the time it took action in relation to the mortgage  arrears. And Ms P
made it clear  in her communications with NatWest that the action it was taking was putting
pressure on her and affecting her mental health.
Although NatWest has told us it took Ms Ps circumstances into account  in its dealings  with
her, I think its communications with Ms P show a surprising  lack of understanding  and
empathy. In several  cases, NatWest  didnt acknowledge at all in its replies to her what  Ms P
was telling it about the effect its actions were  having  on her health.
NatWests handling  of Ms Ps mortgage account is closely  connected  to its handling of other
debts Ms P owed the bank - her credit card debt and the money  owed on the current
account.
I can understand NatWest  may have been concerned about the overall  security  of its debts
given the divorce  proceedings  and Ms Ps circumstances and how long the sale of the
property might take until it could recover what it was owed.
As part of the divorce proceedings Ms Ps former spouse agreed to make the mortgage
payments until the house was sold but stopped  paying them in July 2014.  Ms P began to
make the payments that October.  Ms P says she made full or agreed partial payments from
then on. NatWest says there were arrears  on the mortgage from October 2015 onwards.
Ms P disputes this. She says she was never  more  than two months in arrears even when an
arrangement to pay was in place.
I havent seen  a statement of account at this stage, but I dont think I need to. The available
records suggest arrears started to build up on the mortgage account from early  January
2016 although they were  only around £800 at this time. The mortgage account was several
Ref: DRN22280073thousand pounds  in arrears by the time NatWest began repossession action.
It took some time for the details of the divorce settlement to be clarified.  The final hearing
was delayed as Ms P was undergoing medical  treatment. Ms P told NatWest in November
2015 that she was waiting  for judgment and updated it that the sale of the property had been
ordered and the parties  had until early January 2016  to agree on an agent to market the
property. The January court order identified the selling  agent.
The property wasnt on the market by February  2016. Ms P was exploring  whether part of
the land could be sold separately to make the house  itself more saleable.  There  was a
suggestion she was looking  at living in another property on the land.  And from conversations
NatWest had with Ms Ps former  spouse there  seems to have been  a difference  of opinion
between the former spouse and Ms P about  how the sale should  progress. So, there was
potential for there to be a delay to NatWest  recovering its debts.
But Ms P kept NatWest  up to date with the details of her divorce, plans for selling the
property, benefits  she was applying for and about a pension  payment shed be due which
would clear any arrears. For a time, Ms P was meeting part of the mortgage payment with
the Department of Work  and Pensions  (DWP)  also paying  part.
NatWest assessed  Ms Ps income  and expenditure in 2016 and 2017, which showed it she
couldnt afford to meet  the mortgage payments. But it didnt take into account her former
spouses income even though they were jointly responsible for the mortgage debt.
There was significant  equity in the property and limited risk to NatWest  that it wouldnt be
able to get back the full amount owed on the mortgage  or the other debts Ms P owed 
once the property was sold.
NatWest was kept up to date with the marketing  of the property and the offers  that were
being made.
During this time NatWest  was taking action to recover  the credit  card and current account
debts Ms P owed. Ms P and representatives  on her behalf  made  it clear  to NatWest the
pressure this was putting her under  and the impact it was having on her health.
In June 2016 NatWest moved the mortgage  into its recoveries team with the other  debts.
NatWest told Ms P that because the overdraft debt had been  passed to recoveries, the
mortgage debt had to be dealt with there  as well, although it didnt provide a full explanation
of why that was.
Ms P reminded NatWest of her vulnerable condition on a call on 21 June 2016. And the
medical evidence  Ive mentioned, which was received by NatWest  in July, confirmed  that.
In January 2017 Ms P wrote to NatWest  once again explaining her medical condition and
financial situation. Her solicitors also wrote  to NatWest in January summarising the medical
evidence that had been made available to NatWest  and pointing out the effect NatWests
actions were having on her mental health.  NatWest  received further  medical evidence  in
February 2017 that Ms P was continuing to suffer  physical and mental  ill health  and needed
to reduce the stress  she was suffering.  NatWest  was also aware  Ms P had sought financial
help.
Despite this, in February  2017 NatWest withdrew  the payment arrangement it had agreed
under which Ms P and the DWP were meeting around half of the monthly mortgage
Ref: DRN22280074payment. And in March 2017 it sent a formal demand for repayment of the mortgage.
NatWest argues it had reached the end of the forbearance measures it could agree to. But I
dont think taking repossession action here was a last resort as it should  have  been.  I think
NatWests objective  was to recover the other  debts  Ms P owed by securing  a charge over
the property for those  and then forcing a sale of the property to release funds for that. If it
had had concerns  about the progress of the sale it could, for example,  have discussed  with
Ms P and her former spouse  an assisted sale to give NatWest  more control over the sale
process.
The property was being actively marketed and an offer was made in March 2017.  NatWest
carried on with legal  action even though a letter confirming  an offer had been  made  was
produced from the estate  agent selling the property and Ms P had offered to make  a full
mortgage payment  from benefits shed recently received if NatWest  would put things on hold
for another  month to see if the sale progressed.
By March 2017, there was an accepted offer on the property. NatWest was unwilling  to stop
its repossession action until contracts  for the sale of the property had been exchanged. I
think it was unreasonable of NatWest to continue with the repossession action  and to adopt
such a harsh  line with Ms P in circumstances where  they knew  about her health  concerns
and vulnerability  and where  positive action was being taken to sell the property.
I understand the property was sold in around June 2017. And I understand Ms P reached
agreement with NatWest  about payment of the sums she and her former  spouse owed later
that year.
Turning to the complaint issues, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest not to accept
an offer to pay off the mortgage  for less than the full amount Ms P and her former spouse
owed. NatWest was entitled to be paid back the money it lent in line with the terms and
conditions of the mortgage. And there was sufficient equity in the property for that to
happen.
I think it was unreasonable for NatWest to withdraw, or not to renew, the payment
arrangement under  which Ms P and the DWP  were meeting part of the monthly  mortgage
payments. For the reasons Ive explained, I think NatWest started repossession action too
soon. Ms P was paying what she could while the property  was being marketed, shed told
them she was due to receive a pension  payment  which she would pay towards  the arrears,
and she offered to make  a full monthly  payment once  an offer had been made  on the
property if it would allow her more time to progress the sale.
Ms Ps unhappy NatWest  didnt take into account  overpayments she and her former spouse
had made  when it looked at the arrears  on the mortgage account. I wouldnt expect NatWest
to have done that. The overpayments reduced  the balance  of the mortgage and, in turn, the
interest payable on the balance.  So, to give further credit for those payments would have
meant Ms P benefited from them twice.
Ms P argues that because  NatWest put pressure  on her to sell the property it was sold for
less than its value.  I understand the valuation  of the property at the time of the divorce  was
around £1,000,000 and its recently  sold at a much higher value.
A number  of factors affect the value of a property and its eventual sale price including  the
circumstances in which it is sold, changes  in property values due to market conditions  and
Ref: DRN22280075works of repair or refurbishment.  The property  was on the market in August 2016 at around
£800,000 and sold for around £750,000. Although NatWest clearly put Ms P under pressure
to get the sale through, pressure to do that also came from the court  order  in the divorce
proceedings. Theres mention that some  potential purchasers were  concerned  about
possible flooding. Time has passed since  the sale and the most recent sale,  so its value is
likely to have changed in that period. And I understand work has also been  carried out to the
property which is likely  to have affected its value as well.
The valuation carried out before the property was put on the market  would have  shown what
the property was worth at the time. Ms P hasnt provided this, and I havent seen anything  to
suggest that the property was sold under value. In any case, even if it was, Im not
persuaded that was due to the actions of NatWest,  for the reasons Ive explained.
I am persuaded that NatWests treatment of Ms P had a significant effect on her well-being
and I think it failed to treat her fairly and sympathetically in all the circumstances. I intend to
award Ms P £750 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she was caused  by
NatWests actions.
If Ms P incurred  any legal  fees which were added to the mortgage  account or paid to her
own solicitors  as a result  of the action NatWest took to repossess the property, which it
hasnt already refunded, NatWest should refund  those with interest.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that NatWest  should  pay Ms P, within  28 days  of Ms P accepting
my final decision,
1. £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
2. Any legal  fees Ms P incurred, whether added to the mortgage account  or paid to her
own solicitors;  and
3. Simple interest on such legal fees at 8% a year from the date Ms P paid them to the
date they are refunded.
If NatWest pays  the compensation later than 28 days of Ms P accepting  my final decision, it
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment at 8% a year simple.
If NatWest considered its required by HM Revenue and Customs  to withhold income tax
from any interest it pays Ms P, it should tell her how much  its taken off and give her a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
developments
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  decision and Ive thought carefully  about  
what theyve said. Ms Ps provided some more documents  which Ive considered.
Ive summarised below the points the parties have made. 
Ms P
Ref: DRN22280076Ms Ps concerned I havent understood the amount of pressure NatWest was putting on her 
to sell the property.  She says the 2016 court  order  in her divorce proceedings didnt put a 
timescale on when  the sale should  take place. 
Ms Ps explained that a valuation of around £800,000 to £850,000  was put on the property 
when it was being marketed. She says she only took a lower offer because repossession  
was being threatened by NatWest. And she argues it would have  sold for more than it did if it 
had been possible  to market it over the summer months. 
Ms P doesnt feel the level of compensation Ive proposed awarding  her reflects  the impact  
NatWests actions had on her mental  well-being or that Ive properly taken into consideration 
the full extent of her health issues. She also thinks she should be awarded  some 
compensation for the time and effort shes put into dealing with the complaint.
Ms P feels my provisional decision didnt show I understood when and how the debts she 
and her former spouse had jointly incurred had come about. And shes  explained  she was 
out of work and their assets had been  frozen until after theyd divorced. 
Ms Ps asked for clarification about the legal fees Ive said should  be refunded to her.
NatWest
NatWest says theres no record a payment plan was ever agreed with Ms P. It says following 
a referral to its legal team, NatWest made a commercial decision - in line with its terms and 
conditions - not to agree  to one. 
NatWest says it wouldnt have approached  Ms Ps former spouse for information  about her 
income since it wasnt prepared to agree to a payment  plan; and it points out Ms P and her 
former spouse were  jointly and severally liable for the outstanding debt so it could choose 
which of them to pursue for the mortgage.
NatWest says it made it clear to Ms P it would only stop legal proceedings once the property 
was sold so it wouldnt have come as a surprise to Ms P that her request for a payment plan 
was turned down  again in 2017.
NatWest doesnt  think  stopping legal proceedings at the point  at which  Ms P had an offer on 
the property was in her best interests. NatWest argues there  would have been an emotional 
and financial  cost to Ms P if it had given her false  hope  by delaying repossession 
proceedings, only for the offer to fall through. It says Ms P saved the potential additional 
legal costs that she would have incurred  had the sale fallen through and NatWest had had to 
restart the repossession  process. And NatWest says the legal  action didnt prevent the sale 
from going through.
NatWest acknowledges  the communications show Ms P suffered a great deal of trauma. But 
it doesnt think there was anything  it couldve  done  to mitigate that. Its explained the 
repossession letters  it sent were  generic  and contained information its customers  are legally 
entitled to. And it says it wasnt possible to personalise the letters for Ms Ps individual 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN22280077my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered carefully everything theyve told me and 
the documents theyve provided  in coming  to my decision, even though  I may not have 
mentioned something  specifically, either  above  or here in my findings. 
I havent seen  any evidence that changes  my mind about whether NatWest should have 
accepted an offer to pay off the mortgage for less than the full amount  Ms P and her former 
spouse owed.  So, as I explained in my provisional  decision, I think  NatWest was entitled to 
be paid back the money  it lent in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage.  And 
there was sufficient equity  in the property for that to happen.
Even if, as NatWest says,  no payment arrangement was agreed,  I still think, for the reasons  I 
explained in my provisional decision,  that NatWest started repossession  action too soon.  So, 
I still think if Ms P became responsible for any legal costs NatWest incurred and added  to 
the mortgage account, or she paid her own solicitors for any work in dealing  with any action  
NatWest took to repossess the property,  NatWest should refund those, if it hasnt already 
done so, with interest.
 
I dont accept NatWests  argument  that pausing legal proceedings wasnt  in Ms Ps best 
interests. Ms P was already in a difficult position  with her physical and mental health  as 
NatWest was aware. And from what Ms Ps said, I think carrying on with the possession 
proceedings made things worse for her. I acknowledge  that stopping  and restarting  legal 
proceedings  if that had been necessary  - might have increased  the legal costs  Ms P had to 
pay. But the situation NatWest describes is hypothetical.  And I think  NatWest should have 
given more weight  to Ms Ps well-being than the possibility some  additional  legal costs  might 
be incurred, if that was actually what NatWest considered at the time. 
I acknowledge that Ms P and her former spouse  were jointly  and severally liable for the 
mortgage and NatWest wasnt under any obligation  to pursue Ms Ps former spouse for what 
they owed. The records suggest NatWests approach was to pursue Ms P. I think,  given 
Ms Ps circumstances, it would  have  been fair for NatWest to pursue Ms Ps former spouse  
as well. But this doesnt change my overall  outcome as I think  Ms P would  have felt under a 
similar amount  of pressure even if her former spouse had been pursued.  
I havent seen  any evidence that causes  me to change  my mind  about the overpayments  
Ms P and her former spouse  had made during  the course of the mortgage. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the overpayments  reduced the balance of the mortgage and, in turn, 
the interest payable on the balance. So, to give further credit for those payments would have
meant Ms P benefited from them twice.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances surrounding the marketing and sale of the 
property, where the pressure to achieve a sale came from and whether this affected  the 
amount Ms P had to accept. 
I appreciate the situation was very difficult for Ms P given her health and personal 
circumstances. And I accept NatWest was putting  pressure on Ms P by, amongst other 
things, refusing to delay  the possession proceedings and suggesting that if the sale didnt go 
through quickly, theyd  repossess and sell the property  at a much  lower price at auction. But 
Ref: DRN22280078I dont think NatWest bears all of the blame,  either for the pressure Ms P was under or for 
the amount the property was sold for. The situation  was more complex than that.
Because of delays  in the divorce proceedings it wasnt until January 2016 the court  ordered 
the sale of the property.  When it did, the court said the property should be sold forthwith  
so while  no specific time limit was put on selling the property, this means the court  required  
the property to be marketed and sold as quickly as possible. 
Ms Ps explained that her former spouse  and their solicitors were also putting pressure on a 
sale being achieved  as their fees were going  to be paid out of the proceeds of sale.
Ms Ps said the sales process was being controlled  by the divorce solicitors  and the estate 
agents, not her. From what Ive seen, Ms P was involved in giving the estate  agents  direct 
instructions on the sale of the property. She discussed with them offers  that had been 
received in around March 2017,  which she didnt feel were high enough, and asked them  to 
hold out for more.  So, although there were pressures to sell coming from NatWest and 
elsewhere, I think Ms P had some control  over the sale process as well.
Ive seen a valuation of the property from 2014  which gave the value as £975,000. It was 
prepared solely for the purposes of the divorce proceedings going on between Ms P and her 
former spouse, not for marketing  the property. Amongst other  things the valuation says the 
property was difficult to value due to lack of comparable properties  to measure it against. 
And it describes the land associated with the property as difficult  to access  and of limited, 
primarily private use for a specific  purpose.  This suggests the pool of potential  buyers  might  
be limited. 
I still havent seen  any formal valuation of the property from 2017  when the property was put 
on the market. But the information I have seen suggests the property was being marketed at 
a lower level than the 2014 court valuation at around  £800,000 to £850,000. Im aware there 
was a plan to sell some of the land separately  so that may account for some  if not all of the 
difference. Time had moved on and property values  may have changed by the time the 
property was finally put on the market  in 2017. And, as Ive mentioned, the property  seems  
to have had some unique features which may have made it more  difficult  to value and sell.
I understand Ms P had been told by other, national estate agents that the price the property 
was being marketed at was too low and she felt unable to switch estate agents because  of 
the pressure from NatWest. But I can see Ms P discussed with her former  spouse the 
possibility of marketing  the property with more than one estate agent. So, although I do 
understand she felt pressurised to achieve  a sale, if she was concerned about the price and 
the low offers they were receiving, she and her former spouse could have marketed  the 
property with other estate  agents at the same time.
The offers Im aware  of were, in fact, considerably lower than the £800,000 to £850,000 
asking price. Ms P argues  that if the property had been left on the market  for longer, higher 
offers would have  been made.  But theres  no guarantee that would have happened and I 
havent seen anything to suggest the property was sold at an undervalue. As I said in my 
provisional decision, even if it was, I think  the pressure Ms P was under to go ahead  with a 
sale came  from several sources,  including, but not only, NatWest. And theres  no evidence 
that a higher sale price could have been achieved for the property if it had been on the 
market for longer.  
Ref: DRN22280079Ive reconsidered  carefully the level of compensation for distress and inconvenience I think 
Ms P should be awarded here. Ms Ps reminded me of the effect her health and personal 
issues had on her. I dont  underestimate that, and I agree NatWest ought to have taken this 
into account better in their dealings with her. I dont accept NatWests  argument it couldnt 
have done anything to lessen the impact its generic letters might have had on Ms P when 
she got them. It knew she was vulnerable,  and it could  have  spoken  to her on the phone to 
explain why they were being sent.  But I dont think NatWest is solely  to blame  for the 
pressures Ms P was under as Ive said.
Ms Ps told us she spent  a lot of time and effort bringing her complaint to this service  which  
has had a further impact  on her. I appreciate NatWest didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. And I 
do understand that bringing her complaint to this service will have been a stressful  
experience for her. But this service cant usually make awards for the way in which  a firm 
has handled a complaint.  Complaint handling  isnt an activity  regulated  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  which is what this service looks at. 
In summary,  Ive explained  why I dont think NatWest can be held responsible  for the price  at 
which the property  was sold. And, bearing everything in mind, I havent seen anything that 
persuades me to change my mind  about the award  I plan to make for compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £750. 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Ms P within 28 days of 
her accepting my final decision
1. £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
2. Any legal  fees and expenses Ms P paid,  whether  
a)incurred by National Westminster Bank  Plc in bringing possession  
proceedings or taking other  legal  action against her in connection  with her 
mortgage account and added to the mortgage account; and/or
b)paid by Ms P to her own solicitors in connection with possession  proceedings 
or other legal action  National  Westminster Bank  Plc brought  against  her in 
connection with her mortgage account; and
3. Simple interest on such legal fees at 8% a year from the date Ms P paid them to the
date they are refunded.
If NatWest pays  the compensation later than 28 days of Ms P accepting  my final decision, it
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment at 8% a year simple.
If NatWest considered its required by HM Revenue and Customs  to withhold income tax
from any interest it pays Ms P, it should tell her how much  its taken off and give her a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
Ref: DRN222800710Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228007