K821x#15complaint
Mrs M, represented  by a claims management  company, complains that Gain  Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) lent money  to her that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mrs M entered into six loans with Lending  Stream between June and November 2017. 
Loan Amount Date Repaid Term
1 £50 15 June 2017 2 July2017 6 months
2 £300 2 July 2017 outstanding 6 months
3 £100 7 August 2017 2 October 2017 6 months
4 £200 17 September 2017 outstanding 6 months
5 £50 26 September 2017 2 October 2017 6 months
6 £450 2 November 2017 outstanding 6 months
Mrs M says that she had become dependent on short term borrowing and the loans trapped  
her in a cycle of debt.  The CMC says that had adequate checks been carried out Lending 
Stream would have  realised that providing short term loans to Mrs M wasnt helping her 
financial situation and actually made  her situation  worse by making it more difficult for her to 
achieve a long term solution to her financial issues. It also says that had proper  affordability  
checks taken place  the loans wouldnt have been provided.
Lending Stream says that it carried out affordability checks  before  providing the loans. 
It says it gathered information on Mrs Ms income and expenditure and used national 
databases to adjust the expenses as required. It says that based on this the loans were 
affordable and that the credit checks carried out didnt raise any concerns.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He thought that the loans shouldnt have been  
provided to Mrs M. He said that the information  gathered by Lending  Stream  showed Mrs M 
was struggling to manage her money and that her income and expenditure information 
suggested she had less than £40 a month  disposable income. He thought Lending Stream 
should have realised that Mrs M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay her loans. 
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. It said that three  loans were still 
outstanding and that the refund would be offset  against the outstanding principal amount. 
Mrs M didnt  accept the offer and so this case has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mrs M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
Ref: DRN26343092the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mrs M could sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs Ms first loan was for £50. While the repayment  amounts were relatively low, with the 
highest being £12.40,  I think  that Lending Stream should have been concerned that the loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable. I say this because Mrs Ms monthly income was recorded as 
£1,650 and her expenses  recorded as £1,611. This left a monthly disposable income of just 
£39. While this is higher than the repayment  amount,  given how small the disposable  income 
is and how little would be left after the repayment, I dont think  this loan could be considered 
sustainably affordable. 
Mrs M continued  to borrow, taking out new loans before previous loans were  repaid, further  
showing she was having problems managing her money.
Given the evidence  provided I agree with our adjudicators view that the loans shouldnt have 
been provided. Lending Stream also accepted our adjudicators view and said that the 
interest and charges would be refunded on the loans and that amendments  would be made 
to Mrs Ms credit  file. 
Ref: DRN26343093Mrs M didnt  accept the resolution offered. I can see from her response that she was 
unhappy that she would still owe Lending  Stream  money after the refund. 
Mrs M borrowed the money and therefore had the benefit of it. While I agree  the lending  was 
unsustainable I do not think that this means the principal amount  has to be written off. 
Instead I agree that our normal approach, of refunding  interest and charges along with 8% 
simple interest, is fair in this case.  As the refund amount calculated by Lending  Stream is 
less than the principal  amount still outstanding I find it reasonable that the refund is offset 
against the outstanding  principal.
I note that loan six has been  transferred to another company. Lending Stream has said that 
it will be in a position to buy back the loans if the account is still open  and that there have 
been no payments  made towards  the loan. Therefore I have included this in my decision.
Lending Stream has also said that if Mrs M is struggling to make the repayments of the 
principal amount then it should contact it to discuss a possible repayment  plan.  I find this 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs M paid on all of the loans and write  off unpaid 
interest on the outstanding loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
buy back loan six as it has said it would  be in a position to do;
apply the refund towards the total outstanding principal balance;
remove any negative information  about the loans from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HMRC requires  Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs M asks for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off this should  be provided. If, as has been 
set out, the refund is used  to reduce an amount  Mrs M owes, this must be done after tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2634309