K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc issued defaults for his current  account 
and loan despite assurances  it wouldnt.  
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 August 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what RBS should  do to put things  right. I invited both parties to send any additional 
comments or information for me to consider.  
Mr T responded to confirm he accepted  my provisional decision.  RBS responded but didnt 
accept. RBS asked  me to reconsider  my decision on the basis that Mr T has supplied email  
evidence that has been tampered with. In addition, RBS says it tried to discuss  Mr Ts 
accounts with him before  it took the decision to default them. RBS also says that defaulting  
the loan was in Mr Ts best interests. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note everything RBS has said in 
response to my provisional  decision but I still think this complaint should  be upheld.  Ill 
explain why. 
RBS says Mr T has submitted email evidence that has been tampered with in some way. But 
Ive looked at the email evidence supplied and found nothing to indicate its not genuine. As I 
said in my provisional decision, on balance, Im satisfied Mr T emailed RBS on 29 May 2018. 
Ive already said that I accept Mr T emailed RBS as he claimed on 29 May 2018. When 
customers experience  financial difficulties and ask for help businesses  should respond 
positively and sympathetically. I can see RBS records indicate it sent Mr T a text message 
on 30 May 2018 before it issued its pre default letter to him on 5 June 2018. But I think  RBS 
should have done more  to try and see what assistance it could provide Mr T after he emailed  
and asked for help.  
Mr T sent RBS another email on 23 July 2018 asking for help and information. RBS internal  
emails show that there was pressure from within the business to respond  to Mr Ts email.  My 
provisional decision sets out the timescales for contacting Mr T during the period leading up 
to its 5 September 2018 email so I wont repeat them in full. I remain of the view that RBS 
should have done more  to try and respond to Mr Ts 23 July 2018 email. I dont think three  
calls in six weeks far enough. 
I also have to take into account  that RBS sent a follow up email  to Mr T after it spoke with 
him on 5 September 2018 and confirmed there  was no default notice in place. As I 
previously said, I think  this caused  considerable confusion and meant  Mr T incorrectly 
thought the defaults were on hold or were no longer being applied. 
Ref: DRN23083532RBS says Mr T would  likely have defaulted on his loan, even if it had responded with correct 
information and in good time. Whilst I can see there were arrears on the loan,  Ive previously 
set out the payments Mr T was making  during the period in question.  And Mr Ts current 
account statements  show that, overall,  his account was managed within  the agreed overdraft 
limit. Im not persuaded  that Mr Ts loan and current account would definitely have defaulted. 
Im satisfied that the payments  Mr T made  to his loan between July and September  2018 
show he had capacity  to make payments to his loan.  And, ultimately, I think  RBS missed  
important opportunities  to discuss Mr Ts circumstances with him to see whether it could  
agree an affordable payment arrangement. 
I havent been persuaded to change my decision.  But Mr T should  note that once his 
accounts are live again he will need  to ensure they are managed in line with the terms and 
that any arrears are repaid. If Mr T isnt able to afford the loan or overdraft  in the future,  RBS 
can still default them which may have an impact on his credit file. 
Ive noted everything  that Mr T and RBS have  said in their original submissions and in response  
to my provisional decision.  Having done so, I still think Mr Ts complaint should  be upheld. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc to:
-Remove both defaults from Mr Ts credit file
-Reopen  Mr Ts loan and start payments
-Discuss options to affordably  repay  any outstanding arrears
-Reopen  Mr Ts current account and reinstate his overdraft facility
-Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN23083533Copy provisional decision 21 August  2019
Complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc issued defaults for his current  account  and loan 
despite assurances it wouldnt. 
Background
Mr T had an RBS current account with a £1,500 overdraft limit. He also had a loan with monthly  
payments of £161.15.  
Mr Ts provided medical evidence to show that in January 2018 he started to experience  health 
problems. Hes explained  that they impacted his work and income.  Mr Ts loan payments werent fully 
maintained. Mr Ts health  problems  continued and on 29 May 2018 he emailed  RBS explaining he 
was experiencing financial  difficulties and asked for some help with his payments. Mr T says he didnt 
get a response from RBS.  
On 22 June 2018 RBS sent Mr T a default notice in relation to his loan. RBSs letter said Mr T had to 
pay £531.10  towards his loan arrears by 10 July 2018. RBS also sent Mr T a letter  advising it would  
close his current account  and asked him to make  arrangements  to clear his overdraft balance. 
The 28 June 2018 loan payment was returned unpaid. Mr T went on to make a payment of £100 on 
11 July 2018 and another of £100 on 23 July 2018. 
On 23 July 2018  Mr T emailed RBS about the default notice hed received. He asked RBS to withdraw 
the default  notice. RBS tried to call Mr T on 24 July 2018 and again on 22 August  2018.  
On 24 August 2018 RBS sent Mr T notice of its intention to default  his current  account. 
On 5 September 2018 RBS called Mr T again and he asked  for a call back.  But the call handler 
refused to arrange a call back. On the same day, RBS sent Mr T an email saying there was no default 
notice lodged  despite his loan account being three months in arrears. RBS email said the accounts 
held may default in the future  in line with the banks recovery process. 
In October 2018 RBS passed Mr Ts accounts to a third party. 
RBS has recorded defaults for both accounts on Mr Ts credit file. The date of the default for the loan 
is shown as 30 November 2018 and the current account on 31 December 2018.  
After Mr T complained  RBS responded on 14 January  2019 and apologised for incorrectly telling him 
there were no default notices lodged on 5 September 2018. But RBS didnt agree  to remove the 
defaults. RBS sent Mr T a £50 voucher  to apologise.  Mr T then referred his complaint to our service  
and an investigator looked at it. She didnt uphold  the complaint  and Mr T asked  to appeal. As a 
result, his complaints been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr T was behind with his monthly payments in 2018 which  is why RBS decided to 
default his loan. RBS also decided to close Mr Ts current account. But businesses should  treat 
consumers in financial difficulties positively  and sympathetically. In this case, I think  RBS missed  
opportunities to provide assistance to Mr T. 
Ref: DRN23083534Mr T has sent us a copy of an email he sent RBS on 29 May 2018 asking for help. In response to the 
investigator, RBS said it had no record of receiving the email. But I can see the email is correctly  
addressed (in line with others  RBS has confirmed it received) and I have  no reason to doubt what  Mr 
T says.  Im satisfied Mr T did email RBS as he claims on 29 May 2018 and it was most likely  received.  
Mr Ts email is clear  in asking for help but he didnt  receive any contact. RBS moved  to default Mr Ts 
loan account the following  month and also took steps to close his current  account  down. I wouldnt 
expect RBS to take those  steps without first trying to see what help it could  provide. As Ive said,  Im 
satisfied Mr T did email RBS on 29 May 2018 to ask for help and I think  RBS missed  an opportunity to 
do that. 
In June 2018  RBS sent Mr T important information about its decision to default  his loan and close his 
current account. Mr T emailed RBS again on 23 July 2018  and asked it to withdraw the default  notice 
for his current account. Whilst I can see RBS tried to call Mr T on 24 July 2018 and 22 August 2018, it 
wasnt able to speak with him. On 5 September 2018 a third call was successful. But Mr T couldnt  
speak and asked to be called back. The call handler  refused to arrange  a call back. I find that hard to 
understand as Mr T had been waiting  for someone to contact  him since 23 July 2018. I also think RBS 
could have done more  to try and get in touch with Mr T after his email, it only called him three times  in 
around six weeks.  
But RBS did email Mr T on 5 September 2018.  RBS email is poorly written,  confusing and contains 
mistakes. The email says I would like to inform  you that till date there is no default  notice lodge for 
you in our records. That information proved  incorrect. But I can understand why, after waiting several 
weeks, Mr T would have  taken it that there were no active default notices in RBS  records.  RBS 
accepts it made an error but I dont think the £50 voucher it sent Mr T fairly  reflects that. 
Looking at Mr Ts loan statements I can see there were ongoing arrears. But I can also see that Mr T 
was trying to make the payments he could afford.  Mr T made a full payment  of £161.15  on 4 May 
2018 but didnt make a payment in June 2018. In July 2018 Mr T paid a total of £200 and in August 
2018 he paid £162. On 3 September 2018 Mr T made a further payment of £100 to the loan account. I 
can see his payments  stopped after that point but I think thats  because  of the conflicting  information  
he received as well as RBS  decision to close his current account. 
I think  the above payments  show Mr T was willing to work  with RBS despite being in financial  
difficulties. I think they also indicate there may have been an alternative to defaulting both his loan 
and current account if RBS had acted  sooner.
From what Ive seen I think RBS missed opportunities to discuss Mr Ts financial difficulties  and 
provide assistance. Im satisfied Mr T did email  RBS on 29 May 2018 to ask for help but didnt receive 
a response. After Mr Ts email was received on 23 July 2018 RBS attempted three phone calls in 
around six weeks. When it successfully  got through to Mr T on 5 September  2018 it refused to 
arrange a call back. RBS then sent an incorrect and confusing email to Mr T on 5 September 2018 
advising there were no default notices. Despite that, RBS went on to transfer his accounts to its 
recoveries department and then to a third party.  
I dont think RBS has treated  Mr T positively  and sympathetically in this case. I also think its made  
errors and provided confusing information whilst he was experiencing health issues and financial 
difficulties. Mr T has told us he was willing  to work  with RBS to avoid a default  if it had responded to 
him and Im satisfied thats  the case. 
As a result, I intend to uphold this complaint and tell RBS to remove the defaults from Mr Ts credit 
file. RBS should put Mr T back into the position he would  have been in had his loan and overdraft  not 
defaulted. It should take steps  to reopen the loan and start taking payments from Mr T again. RBS 
should discuss Mr Ts arrears with him in order to see if there is an affordable way to repay  them.  
RBS should also take steps to reopen Mr Ts current account and reinstate his overdraft  facility.  In 
addition, RBS should pay Mr T £250 for the upset the way its handled his accounts has caused and 
the impact of this issue on him. 
Ref: DRN23083535Mr T should be aware that despite the above remedy his loan will still show as having  arrears  on his 
credit file. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct RBS to: 
-Remove both defaults  from Mr Ts credit file
-Reopen Mr Ts loan and start payments
-Discuss options  to affordably repay any outstanding arrears
-Reopen Mr Ts current account and reinstate his overdraft facility
-Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T.
Mr T and RBS have until 21 September 2019 to send me anything further they would like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2308353