K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Services Limited sent him unwanted marketing 
communications about a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
In 2014 Mr G opted out of receiving marketing material from British Gas.  But in 
October 2017 he accepted the offer of free insurance from British Gas until October  2018.  
He complained about the communications he received at around  that time.  In particular he 
complained about a letter dated 13 November 2018.
 
In a final response letter, British Gas said it had offered Mr G £50.00  but he had declined 
that offer.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
letter in November 2018 was confusing but she didnt think  British Gas was wrong  to send it 
to Mr G. She said she would expect customers to let businesses know  that they dont want 
to continue with a cover. She thought that British Gas had picked up on the element of poor 
customer service  and had made  an offer of £50.00  which she thought was reasonable. 
my (first) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a (first) provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr G and to British Gas on 29 March 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
The policy terms  provided that British  Gas was going to renew  the policy 
automatically.
As Mr G had taken a (free) policy in 2017  and it was automatically renewed, I didnt 
think the letters in 2018 about  that policy were unfair or unreasonable.  
I was minded that £50.00  was fair and reasonable  for the distress and inconvenience  
British Gas caused Mr G by the shortcomings Id identified in the way it 
communicated with him.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from British Gas, my (first)  provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British  
Gas Services Limited  to pay Mr G (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £50.00  for distress 
and inconvenience.
my (second) provisional decision
After reconsidering  all the evidence, I issued a (second)  provisional decision on this 
complaint to Mr G and to British Gas on 13 June 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I had changed  my view about upholding the complaint and directing British Gas to 
pay Mr G (insofar  as it hasnt already paid him) £50.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN27300002Instead I didnt  intend to uphold the complaint but I expected British  Gas to keep that 
offer open  in case Mr G wanted to accept it.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from British Gas, my (second) provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I considered that the British Gas 
offer of £50.00 was fair and reasonable. I didnt intend to direct  British Gas Services  Limited 
to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr G accepts the provisional decision. He says he has spoken to British  Gas Services 
Limited to arrange  for the compensation payment  to be made.
British Gas agrees  with the provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G initially took Kitchen Appliance Cover. The British Gas policy terms say that is an 
insurance product.  The policy terms included a term as follows:
Renewals
Well write to you at least 25 days before your agreement  is due for renewal.
If you pay by Direct Debit, or are an Energy Extra customer, well keep renewing your 
agreement automatically,  until you ask us to stop.
The welcome letter on 13 October 2017 said that the cover was free of charge. It included  a 
statement that British  Gas would write to Mr G about a month before the policy  was due to 
end and the following statement:
because you pay by Direct  Debit, your agreement will automatically renew unless 
you tell us you don't want it to.
The letter quoted the last digits  of a sort code  and bank account number. 
A few days  after taking Kitchen Appliance Cover, Mr G added  Gas Appliance  Check. The 
terms say that (unlike Gas Appliance  Cover) Gas Appliance Check  isnt an insurance  
product.
British Gas sent Mr G another letter. It quoted a price. It also quoted the last digits  of a sort 
code and bank  account number.
From the letters, I find that Mr G had agreed a direct  debit. So the policy  terms provided  that 
British Gas was going  to renew the policy automatically.
From its file, I think Mr G rang British Gas on 27 November  2017. He rang because he 
thought the Gas Appliance Check should also be free of charge  and British  Gas agreed.  
As I would expect, British  Gas wrote to Mr G before the policy  was due for renewal. It has 
shown us a letter dated 8 September  2018.  It invited Mr G to contact British  Gas if he 
Ref: DRN27300003wanted to renew  or to make  changes.  It said that if he renewed, he could still cancel within 
fourteen days.
Mr G says he no longer wanted  the cover  so he let the policy  expire. But he hasnt said he 
contacted British Gas to cancel it. And I think British  Gas renewed the policy in line with its 
terms.
Both Mr G and British Gas have shown  us a postcard sent after the policy  renewal date. It 
invited him to get covered  again.  That was on about 4 November  2018.  Its not consistent  
with the policy having been renewed.
There was a short telephone call on 13 November when Mr G declined to answer security 
questions. British Gas has accepted that it couldve  handled the call better.
On 13 November 2018, British Gas wrote  a letter to Mr G. It gave details of the cover that it 
said was in place  for the year from October 2018   and of the cost of about  £185.00.  Mr G 
contacted British Gas.  He complained that the letter implied that he owed that amount to 
British Gas.
I take into account the relevant law including the recent data protection  regulations.  I also 
take into account the opt-out request Mr G had made in 2014. And I accept that British  Gas 
was  in reality - trying to sell Mr G cover for the year from October 2018.
But I also take into account the policy terms. As Mr G had taken a (free) policy  in 2017 and it 
was automatically renewed, I dont  think the letters in 2018 about that policy were unfair or 
unreasonable.  
British Gas cancelled  the cover   which is what Mr G wanted.  On 18 November 2018  it sent 
a letter  confirming the cancellation.
From what  Mr G says,  and from the British Gas file, I find that on a telephone call on 21 
November, British Gas didnt distinguish properly between the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and the Financial Conduct  Authority.
Mr G says there were other communications including texts and calls. But neither he nor 
British Gas has shown  us details of any other letters or texts. So I cant agree that there was 
an unreasonably large  volume of communication from British Gas.
I find that British Gas had given  contradictory and confusing information.  And British  Gas 
accepts that it couldve  handled calls better. In its final response  letter  British  Gas accepted 
that it had given poor service. And it had offered Mr G £50.00  which he had declined.  
On balance I find that £50.00 was a fair and reasonable  offer for the distress and 
inconvenience British  Gas caused  Mr G by the shortcomings Ive identified in the way it 
communicated with him. I expect British  Gas to keep that offer open in case Mr G wants  to 
accept it.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
consider that the British Gas offer of £50.00  was fair and reasonable. I dont intend to direct 
British Gas Services Limited to do any more  in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN27300004Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2730000