K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service given to him under a home care policy for his 
boiler with British Gas Insurance  Limited (British Gas).
background
In August  2018,  Mr and Mrs M booked a service  for 24 October 2018. They say the service 
year for that period  wouldve ended in December 2018 so they felt this was ample  time for it 
to be completed within  the service  year.
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs M say the appointment was confirmed. However,  on the 
morning of the appointment, they say British Gas phoned them  to reschedule it for January 
2019. Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this as they thought itd breach the condition of the 
boiler warranty and they werent happy that a revised date for the service  was 3 months  after 
the annual service had originally been  booked. The adviser apologised and said the best he 
could do was a £65 refund as an annual service wouldnt  be carried out that year.
Mr and Mrs M complained to British Gas.  It explained that Mr M had been  given the wrong 
information during  his phone call with it in October  2018 - this is because  it says it hadnt 
failed to carry out an annual service visit for the policy year in question. It also says this call 
was two days before the appointment, not on the morning it was due to take place. And it set 
out a time line of the contractual term and the date the annual service had taken place for 
each of those  years as follows.
For the contractual term 9 December 2016  to 8 December 2017,  the annual  service 
visit was carried out on 10 December 2016 as this was the day of installation.
For the contractual term 9 December 2017  to 8 December 2018,  the annual  service 
visit was carried out on 11 December 2017.
For the contractual term 9 December 2018  to 8 December 2019,  the annual  service 
visit was carried out on 9 January 2019.
It also explained that, under the terms of the policy, the annual  service could be more  than 
12 months after the previous service and that a service can be rearranged during periods of 
high demand.  It referred to the following terms from the policy.
annual service is defined  as a check in each  period  of agreement  to ensure that your 
gas boiler, appliance or central heating, and ventilation is working safely  and in line 
with the relevant laws and regulations.  See page 28 for more  details.
Your annual  service  may be more than 12 months  after your last service visit. In 
periods of local or national high demand  for our services  (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns  and may need  to rearrange your annual  service.
So British  Gas didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs M complained to our service that British  Gas hasnt carried  out the agreed 
service within  the 12 months in accordance  with the home care policy.  And they say that by 
failing to do this, British Gas have failed  to meet the requirements of their boiler warranty.
Ref: DRN27023522To put things right, they ask for an apology, the remainder of the cost of the policy  for 2018  
to be paid to them on top of the £65 already refunded, reassurance this wont  happen again, 
confirmation that the warranty  is still valid as well as compensation.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold this complaint. She explained why she 
thought Mr and Mrs M did have an annual service  year for each of the contractual  periods. 
She also noted that British Gas has:
-confirmed in writing that the 5 year warranty is valid. 
-sent us evidence in its contact notes  that it phoned Mr and Mrs M two days  before 
the appointment to reschedule it, rather than the day of the appointment, which its 
allowed to do under the terms  and conditions of the policy in certain circumstances.
However, she did agree that the service  given to Mr and Mrs M wasnt satisfactory as it had 
given them the wrong information during  the call when Mr and Mrs M phone to arrange a 
service in August  as theyd already had one for the contractual  period. Then, on 22 October, 
Mr and Mrs M were  told the service couldnt be arranged until January 2019. So they thought 
they wouldnt get a service  in the contractual period and were worried  about the impact of 
this on the warranty.  Having said all of this, she noted that British Gas gave Mr and Mrs M a 
refund of £65 when  it shouldnt have done this. She thought  it was right to take this payment 
into account and so didnt ask British  Gas to do anything more  to put things right.  
Mr M disagrees. He makes a number of points including  the following: 
1.The dates are wrong so they dont agree they couldve received a service on 11 
December 2017. They explain this is because:
oThey joined the home care after their initial  warranty cover  which  was free for 
a year ended.  And they didnt  start paying for it until 27 December 2017. 
oTheres a 30 day period before British Gas will carry  out any work. 
This is supported by the reminders  being sent to them in May when British Gas is 
saying itd already  been  carried out. 
2.The service is just a check of the boiler exhaust emissions and takes approximately 
10 minutes. Their new boiler is fitted  with a home care smart device which connects 
the boiler directly  with British Gas. So they dont see why they need a service  as a 
condition of the warranty when its really a relatively simple emissions  check.
3.British Gas took too long to look into their complaint, taking them  beyond  their 
renewal which they feel had the effect of locking them in for another year.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN27023523Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs M that I think  the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
annual service customer service
I think its fair to say that the service  given to Mr and Mrs M has fallen below the standard  
they were entitled  to expect. I say this because  they were given incorrect information about  
the service of their boiler and this led them to feel concerned about  the impact  on their 
warranty. I can understand why they felt confused and sought reassurances from British Gas 
about this. And I havent disregarded  Mr Ms concern whether a service  is necessary to 
maintain the warranty  as its a simple emissions check. But my role here is to look at 
whether British Gas has applied  the policy terms fairly. Having done so, I think it has.
Ive already set out above the schedule for the contractual period of the policy  and also when 
a service took place  within those policy  years. The installation was when the first service 
took place. And the policy terms explain,
If weve installed a new boiler for you the first service  will be carried out as part of 
the installation.
After installation, Mr and Mrs M had a years free cover.  And they didnt need a further 
service during this time. When they took out the policy with British  Gas, this was after the 
first years free cover had expired. I think its right that the cover  which  was to be paid for 
started when the free cover expired.  I say this even though the first payment  which was to 
be a monthly direct  debit  - may not have been  taken until late December.  I dont think  this 
means the policy itself hadnt started  and I note that on the renewal letters  it confirms  that 
the direct  debits are taken  on the 9th of each month.
I also think its reasonable that the second  service took place in December 2017 and that 
this was during  the second year of cover with British Gas. It follows that the schedule of 
services have been at a rate of one per policy year.
I note that reminders  were  sent to Mr and Mrs M but I think  theyre generic, saying to 
disregard the reminder if the customer  has already had, or booked, a service.  Mr M says 
theres a 30 day period  before British  Gas will carry out any work. But I think  this is to 
prevent people from taking out a policy for repairs after their boiler  has already broken down 
and then making a claim straight away. So these points dont change  my decision  that the 
terms of this policy have  been applied correctly  to the frequency  of the services.
In its final response letter,  British Gas apologised for the wrong information that was given to 
Mr and Mrs M. It also explained that the agent had incorrectly  refunded £65 to them after the 
phone call on 22 October 2018. And it didnt offer to anything more  to put things right.   
I think its right that British Gas should  compensate Mr and Mrs M for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its mistake in giving them the wrong information which  led to them 
being concerned about  their warranty. However,  our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers, not punish  organisations. And we arent the regulator  so it isnt for our service to 
tell a business to change  how it conducts  its business generally. 
Instead, we look at the impact this particular matter  has had on the consumer concerned.  
I can see from what Mr and Mrs M have said how inconvenient and distressing  this was for 
them. But I think British Gas has apologised to Mr and Mrs M for this and confirmed  their 5 
Ref: DRN27023524year warranty is valid.  It had also already refunded £65 to them  which it didnt need to do. 
Taking everything into account,  including the money  already refunded  to Mr and Mrs M in 
this matter, I believe this is a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances. 
the time it took British Gas to look into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
I understand why Mr and Mrs M say they feel 8 weeks is to long for British  Gas to look into 
their complaint. However, British Gas told Mr and Mrs M it wouldnt be able to arrange for 
them to have a service until 9 January 2019  in a call on 22 October  2018.  And Ive explained  
above that it was allowed to do this under the terms and conditions  of the policy.
Even so, during  the same call, Mr M said he wasnt happy and it was agreed that the adviser  
would send him £65 as compensation for the missed visit. When  Mr M was sent a customer 
service satisfaction survey about how his complaint had been handled, he responded to 
British Gas on 16 November 2018 raising  a number of concerns and queries about  his 
warranty and policy. He wasnt happy with the response to this letter and, in emails on 23 
November 2018,  explained that he thought  British  Gas shouldve raised a complaint in 
response to his letter of 16 November and wasnt happy with the time scale  of 8 weeks to 
look into matters and get back to him.  
I understand that Mr M feels British Gas shouldve responded to this complaint  before they 
had to decide if they wanted to renew  their policy for the next year with it. But under the 
DISP rules set out in the FCA handbook, which can be found online, British  Gas has 8 
weeks to deal with the complaint from the point a complaint was raised. This starts from the 
date it was received.
British Gas logged  Mr Ms email of 23 November  as a complaint.  This gave it until 18 
January 2019  to respond to the complaint. British Gas issued its final response on the 
complaint on 11 January  2019. So I think it was within  time under the DISP  rules. However, 
even if I thought that British Gas shouldve logged Mr Ms letter of 16 November as a 
complaint when it was received, it still wouldnt have needed to respond to the complaint 
before Mr and Mrs Ms current agreement ended on 8 December 2018. 
Even so, I think it might  be helpful  to mention here that Mr and Mrs M arent tied in for a year 
at a time.  Its possible to cancel the agreement at any point throughout the contractual  year. 
If this is done, a pro rata refund would be paid less any charges for repairs  and services that 
have been completed. 
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve  their dispute with British  Gas  can do for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2702352