K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about the amount that shes been charged by Lex Autolease Limited,  
trading as Jaguar Contract Hire,  for damage to a car that she returned at the end of her hire 
agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs G under a hire agreement with Jaguar Contract Hire that was 
signed in June 2015. She returned the car when the hire agreement ended and it was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Jaguar Contract Hire in June 2018. The vehicle 
condition report identified  a dent on the cars near side rear quarter panel  and Jaguar 
Contract Hire sent an invoice to Mrs G for £220 for that damage. She complained to Jaguar 
Contract Hire but wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Jaguar 
Contract Hire had followed the applicable  industry guidelines and the hire agreement 
allowed it to charge for the dent. He didnt consider that Jaguar Contract Hire had made an 
error or omission in this matter and he concluded  that it was entitled  to charge for repairs to 
the car after it was returned by Mrs G.
Mrs G has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
the person  that collected the car took photos  of the car but the photo  that Jaguar  
Contract Hire claims to show the damage  was taken  at a later date;
the dent in that photo is in a different  place  to the dent shown in the vehicle condition 
report;
the photos have clearly  been  taken in different  places and Jaguar Contract  Hire can't 
use photos taken  at a later date;
there was a tiny indent on the car when she returned it but it wasnt  the dent that its 
claiming for; and 
the dent that its trying  to charge her for is not the same dent and wasnt done at the 
time of collection or by her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G returned her car when the hire agreement ended.  It was inspected by a third party on 
behalf of Jaguar Contract Hire. The vehicle condition report  which was signed  by Mrs G -
identified a dent on the cars near side rear quarter panel which  was present when the car 
was collected  and a photo of the dent was included. Mrs G seems to accept that that 
damage was present  when she returned  the car. Jaguar  Contract Hire then sent Mrs G an 
invoice for £220  for that damage.  
She complained to Jaguar  Contract  Hire and said that it hadnt provided enough evidence to 
support that charge and that it was excessive for the damage present. Jaguar Contract Hire 
then sent Mrs G an enlargement of the photo from the report marked to show  the damage 
and it also sent her another photo that was taken  at a later date and which showed the dent 
next to a ruler.  
Ref: DRN22661012Mrs G says that the dent next to the ruler is in a different place to the dent shown on the 
photo in the report and that it was caused after shed  returned the car. But having  looked at 
all of the evidence,  I consider  that the two photos show  the same dent. And its clear from 
the second photo that the dent is more than 10mm   so wouldnt be considered  to be fair 
wear and tear under the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations guidelines on fair 
wear and tear. 
I consider that there was a dent on the car when it was returned by Mrs G and that the dent 
was more than would  be accepted as fair wear and tear. So I consider that Jaguar Contract 
Hire was entitled to charge Mrs G for that damage. And Im not persuaded that a charge of 
£220 for that damage is excessive in these circumstances.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Jaguar Contract Hire to waive 
(or reduce) the charge  for the dent  or to take any other action in response to Mrs Gs 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2266101