K820x#14Complaint
Mr J brings a complaint  on behalf  of his company F in his capacity as the sole director.  
F complains  that HSBC  UK Bank PLC delayed its payments  causing  it financial loss and 
damage to its reputation.
Background
In December, F said it made  three payments of $100,000 from its US Dollars (USD) account 
to its foreign exchange  broker.  It said it made  the transfers on 12, 13 and 17 December.  It 
said HSBC didnt put these payments through, so it had to make the payments again - on 
31 December, 1 and 2 January. F said the second  time these  payments  were made HSBC 
caused a delay, meaning the funds didnt reach the receiving  bank  until 16 January.
F said because of this, its lost out financially due to a change  in the exchange rate, and it 
also lost a $50,000 deposit  it made to one of its suppliers. F said it needed to make the 
payment to its suppliers  by 5 January, which didnt happen. F has also said the failed 
transfers and then the delay in releasing the money has damaged  its reputation, with both its 
supplier, and its foreign exchange broker.
HSBC said it could  only see two payments  from F initially  one on 12 December and one on 
13 December. It said it blocked these two transfers as they were  flagged by its system  as 
being potentially  fraudulent. It said it tried to contact F by telephone  to confirm the transfers 
were genuine,  but as it couldnt reach it, it returned  the funds to Fs account.
HSBC said two of the transfers F made on 31 December  and 2 and 1 January were delayed  
as the beneficiary  bank  needed more information  before it could accept the funds into its 
account. HSBC  has said it did cause a delay here, as it received the requests for information  
on 3 and 4 January but didnt respond until 14 January. The funds were then received by the 
beneficiary bank  on 16 January.  HSBC offered F £200 for this delay.
F complained to HSBC.  It said it should have done more to contact him about the first set of 
payments. And it thinks HSBC should compensate it for the loss in exchange rate, and the 
loss of deposit. It also wanted compensation  for the damage to its reputation.
HSBC said it followed process  by returning  the first set of payments to F, and it wasnt  its 
policy to email F to confirm the payments were genuine. It said it was sorry for the delay in 
responding to the request  from the receiving bank, but it didnt think  this delay was the cause 
of Fs loss of deposit or exchange rate.
F wasnt  satisfied, so brought its complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint 
and didnt recommend it was upheld. He thought HSBC had acted in line with the terms of 
the account when returning the first two payments after it couldnt get hold of F. And he 
thought HSBCs explanation of why it couldnt email F was reasonable. He thought  HSBC  
were responsible for a delay, but he didnt think this was the cause  of Fs financial loss, or 
damage to its reputation,  so he thought HSBCs  offer of compensation was fair.
F disagreed  so asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN20641882My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
The first set of payments
I understand F said it tried to make three payments initially.  On 12, 13 and 17 December.  
But HSBC  said it only received two requests, on 12 and 13 December. From the evidence,  
Im satisfied only two payments were attempted.
The terms of Fs account with HSBC  says HSBC might not process  payments if it thinks they 
might be fraudulent in any way. Its said the first two payments F made were picked up by its 
system as being potentially fraudulent,  so it needed to contact F to make  sure the payments 
were genuine.
HSBC acted in line with the terms of the account  here, and its reasonable it only tried to 
contact F by telephone  as its explanation of an email not being as secure as speaking  over 
the telephone is fair. As it couldnt reach F, it returned the payments to its account.
The second  set of payments
After confirming the payments were genuine F made three  payments to its foreign exchange 
broker  on 31 December,  1 and 2 January. One of these payments  was released right 
away, but two werent accepted by the receiving bank as it needed more information  from 
HSBC. I cant  hold HSBC  responsible for this, as its up to the receiving bank to decide  
whether to accept  a payment or not.
But HSBC  received the request for information  on 3 and 4 January and didnt respond until 
14 January. Once  it responded  to the information  requests the funds were  accepted  by the 
receiving bank two days  later.  So HSBC has caused a delay here. What I need to think 
about is the impact  of that delay on F. To do this I need to carefully consider whether this 
delay caused  F a loss, either financially or to its reputation.
Loss of deposit  to Fs supplier
F said it lost a $50,000 deposit to its supplier as a result of HSBCs actions. It said it entered  
a contract for goods, paid the deposit  and needed to pay the remainder of the balance by 
5 January, which didnt  happen. Im satisfied F has demonstrated this loss, but I need to 
decide whether  HSBCs actions were  the cause of it.
For me to say HSBC  were responsible for Fs loss, not only do I need  to be satisfied it was 
possible for F to pay its supplier by 5 January,  but that it was probable .
As already mentioned,  Im satisfied HSBC did nothing wrong in not releasing the first set of 
payments and returning them to Fs account. So any loss F incurred, wasnt  as a result 
anything HSBC did or didnt do in relation to the payments F attempted  to make on 12 and 
13 December.
Ref: DRN20641883Ive already commented that HSBC did delay  the second set of payments by not responding 
to the request from the beneficiary bank in time. But Im satisfied this delay isnt the cause of 
Fs loss of deposit. Ill explain why.
F has said it made the payments to its foreign  exchange broker as it wanted  to trade USD 
into pound  sterling  (GBP)  and then back to USD before paying its supplier. The terms of Fs 
account with HSBC say payments in other currencies can take up to four working days to 
reach the recipient bank. Its unclear whether F was planning  to pay its supplier from its own 
account, or straight  from its brokers account.
F made the payments  on 31 December,  1 and 2 January. This means that whilst its possible 
the funds would have reached  the receiving  banks account by the 5 January, its unlikely. 
The funds reached  the receiving banks  account  two days  after HSBC responded to its 
request. So its reasonable to assume  that had HSBC responded to the requests on the 
same day it received them  3 and 4 January  the funds  would  have been  released two 
days afterwards, missing  the 5 January deadline  for F to make the payment to its supplier.
I must also consider that the payments  F made  were  not made directly to its supplier. They 
were made to its foreign exchange  broker. And whilst its possible  but unlikely - the funds 
would have reached the foreign exchange  brokers account by 5 January, I find it highly 
unlikely the funds would have had two trades  completed on them  USD to GBP  then GBP 
back to USD  - and then reached Fs suppliers account the same day.
It follows that the likelihood of the funds being  sent from the foreign exchange broker  to Fs 
account, then from Fs account to its supplier  another payment which could take up to four 
working days to complete  - by 5 January  is highly  unlikely.
Loss due to exchange rate
F has said its suffered financial loss as the rate it received when it traded the USD into GBP  
was less favourable  than the one it booked in December.
Similarly to the above loss of deposit,  as Im satisfied with HSBCs actions in relation to the 
payments F made on 12 and 13 December, any loss Fs suffered as a result  of this I dont 
require HSBC to compensate.
F missed  a trade booked in December, but this trade was cancelled after the foreign 
exchange broker waited  10 days for the funds. Ive not seen any evidence a further trade 
was booked or cancelled in January. And as explained above, I dont hold HSBC responsible 
for Fs broker not receiving the funds,  or F not being  able to complete the trade  in December.
F didnt trade the USD  to GBP until April. It said it did this due to payment requirements, but 
still made a loss. But Ive not seen any evidence to show that the delay in HSBC responding 
to the receiving banks  request in January resulted in F suffering this loss.
Damage to Fs reputation
As I dont find that HSBC  are responsible for the payment to Fs suppliers not being  made  in 
time, it follows  that any damage to Fs reputation following this, isnt due to any action or 
inaction by HSBC.
Ref: DRN20641884I also dont find HSBC  responsible for any damage to Fs reputation with its foreign 
exchange brokers for much the same reasons. One trade was cancelled, but this was 
because HSBC couldnt confirm the payment was genuine. I cant see another  trade was 
booked. And once  the funds reached the brokers account, it was Fs decision to delay the 
trade in hope  of a better exchange rate.
That said,  HSBC did cause a delay in transferring the funds to Fs foreign exchange brokers 
account. But considering the above  impact  and inconvenience the delay caused to F, Im 
satisfied HSBCs offer of £200 compensation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Fs complaint  against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2064188