K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that NewDay Cards Ltd (trading  as Aqua) failed to put in place a payment 
plan he requested, added charges unfairly to his account and sold the debt on when he was 
trying to sort things out.
background
Mr J had a credit card with Aqua. When he found  himself  in financial difficulties in 2017,  he 
wrote to Aqua suggesting a repayment plan. Mr J made a payment according to the 
repayment plan hed suggested and then made  a larger payment but he found charges were 
still being added to the account. He wrote  to Aqua on several  occasions  about the situation. 
Aqua sent letters to Mr J asking him to call to discuss the arrears on his account but Mr J 
wanted to sort things  out in writing  so he didnt call. In early 2018 he stopped  making 
payments on the account and the debt was sold to another company.
Mr J, represented by his wife, complained to Aqua saying it was unfair to apply charges to 
the account when a repayment plan was in place. Buy Aqua rejected the complaint  as it said 
it hadnt agreed to the repayment plan.  Mr J then came  to this service  but our adjudicator  
didnt think the complaint  should succeed so he asked  for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand that its been really  
frustrating for Mr J that Aqua didnt accept the repayment plan he suggested.  But based on 
the evidence I have, I dont think the complaint should  be upheld and Ill explain why.
Aqua did try to reach out to Mr J by asking him to call it on several  occasions  in response to 
his letters  about  the repayment plan. Mr J, through his representative,  says he wanted to 
sort things  out in writing, not by phone.  But businesses often want to arrange repayment 
plans over the phone to make sure the plan is suitable and understood by the consumer. As 
Mr J didnt give a reason why a phone call would  be difficult  for him, I dont think Aqua  was 
unreasonable to request a call. 
Although Aqua couldve explained itself better in its correspondence, I dont think it gave the 
impression the repayment plan was accepted.  As Mr J made  a larger  payment in September  
2018, it seems to me that he knew the repayment plan wasnt in place at that time. As there 
was no repayment  plan agreed, I think it was reasonable for Aqua to apply charges to the 
account in line with its terms and conditions. The letters it sent to Mr J about the arrears also 
made clear that charges  would  apply.
Because Aqua wasnt able to speak  to Mr J about  his arrears over several months it sold the 
debt on. In the circumstances,  as Aqua had repeatedly requested  a call, I think this was 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Ref: DRN26277212Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627721