K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policies.
background 
Mr M had an accident on 31 December 2014  that resulted in the total loss of his car. He 
claimed on his policy.  Admiral settled Mr Ms claim and pursued the other  drivers insurer.  
The claim against the other insurer  was resolved on 20 December 2017 and the accident 
was recorded  as not being Mr Ms fault.
But, in the meantime, during the two subsequent  policy  renewals with Admiral on 
30 December 2015 and 30 December 2016, the claim remained open. And as Admiral  
treated the open claim as a fault claim for the purposes of calculating Mr Ms renewal 
premiums, his premiums were higher. Once the claim was closed as not being  Mr Ms fault, 
Admiral refunded him the £350 policy excess he had paid.  They also told Mr M that, because  
of the open claim, his 2015 and 2016  renewal  premiums  were a total of £483.95 higher than 
they would  have been had he not had the open claim.
But Admiral  later said they had made a mistake in their calculations  and that Mr M wasnt 
entitled to a refund of £483.95. In July 2018, Admiral said the correct refund was £84.21.  But 
they later said the correct  refund was £19.94.  Admiral explained how the mistakes 
happened. In relation to the wrong calculation  of £483.95, they said once  the other drivers 
insurer accepted  liability, Admiral should  have  changed the December 2014 claim from fault 
to non-fault.  But, instead, they wrongly removed that claim and another non-fault claim from 
February 2014 completely from Mr Ms driving record. The recalculation was therefore  made  
on the basis of Mr M having no claims on his driving history at all, which wasnt  the case as 
he had two non-fault claims. So Admiral recalculated the 2015 and 2016 premiums on the 
basis of Mr M having two non-fault claims.  That recalculation suggested that Mr M was due a 
refund of £84.21. But when Admiral took a closer look at that recalculation they realised that, 
due to a system error, the amount  was also inaccurate and the correct amount to be 
refunded was £19.94. To resolve Mr Ms complaint, Admiral said they were willing  to pay him 
£84.21.
Mr M complained, but Admiral didnt uphold it. He therefore brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. He felt that, although  Admiral  made  a mistake 
that gave Mr M the expectation that he would  receive a refund of almost  £500, their offer of 
refunding £84.21 was reasonable because it was higher  than the £19.94 Mr M was actually  
entitled to. Our adjudicator recommended that Admiral pay Mr M £150 compensation to 
address the distress and inconvenience  he experienced as a result of Admirals  mistake.  But 
as Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued my first provisional  decision  on 20 September  2019.  In that I partially  upheld  Mr Ms 
complaint for reasons  similar to those given by our adjudicator. But following further 
information provided by both Mr M and Admiral, I issued my second provisional  decision on 
18 December 2019. In that I said:
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to 
change my findings.
Ref: DRN22000352Since my provisional decision Mr M has provided me with two emails he sent to 
Admiral on 31 December  2015 and 26 January 2016. Admiral  have also provided me 
with a copy of a recording of a call they had with Mr M on 26 January 2016.
In his email of 31 December 2015, a day after his first policy  renewal since the 
December 2014  accident, Mr M said he was shocked about his premium increasing 
on renewal. He understandably said he assumed the increase was due to the open 
claim relating to the December 2014  accident  and asked Admiral  for their 
observations on the point. Mr M went on to say: Also please confirm  you will be 
able to identify  the extra charges levied and repay on conclusion of the case  if I am 
found to be without fault insurance premium loading may last several years
Mr M discussed the matter with Admiral during a phone call on 26 January 2016. 
During that call Admirals call handler  said: if this claim is settled and is found to be 
in your favour, and we reinstate  your no claims bonus, we will refund you anything 
youve overpaid  on your policy. Mr M was pleased as he was certain  no fault would 
lay with him for the accident. He believed that the increase  in his premium  for the 
policy renewal on 30 December 2015  was solely related to the December 2014 
accident and the open claim. He also believed the premium increase in the 
30 December 2016 renewal was also related to the open claim.
The same day Mr M spoke with Admiral on 26 January 2016, he sent them an email. 
He said:
I have spoken to [Admiral] today and also with [Admiral] in your classic car 
validations department who both agreed  I should write to you in respect of my 
premium pricing query. I would like to know please what  effect the 
31 December 14 accident had with regard to the premiums I was quoted on 
renewal. The lady I spoke to in Canada  when I discussed renewal was unable 
to access the necessary  information. [Admiral] confirmed that if the incident is 
finally resolved in my favour then the additional amounts I paid to insure all 
four vehicles would  be repaid
I think the new information provided  to me after I issued my provisional decision 
changes things. I think that Admiral confirmed Mr Ms belief that the increases to his 
premiums in the two renewal years following the accident, during which the claim 
was open, were principally because of the open  claim. And I think  they gave him a 
reasonable expectation that they would refund him those increases in the event the 
open claim concluded as non-fault.
The contact  between the parties  has to be considered in the context that Mr M is a 
lay person without  in-depth car insurance industry  knowledge. So I dont think  that he 
could have been expected to have known that not all of the premium increases were 
not solely because  the claim was open when in fact it would continue to affect his 
premium even if closed  as non-fault. I think that most lay people without in-depth car 
insurance industry knowledge  in Mr Ms circumstances  would have also thought  that 
the increases  were  only because of the open  claim. And that once it was concluded 
as being non-fault that the entire  increases would be refunded.  So I think Admiral  
should have explained that even in the event the open claim was concluded as non-
fault, the renewal  premiums were unlikely to be the same as the premium during the 
policy year before the December 2014 accident happened. So it was unlikely  that 
Mr M would get a full refund of the difference between the premium for the renewal 
Ref: DRN22000353on 30 December 2014 (before the accident) and the two subsequent renewal 
premiums he paid.  He should  have been  told that any refund would have to be 
calculated at the relevant time and that factors other than the open  claim  could have 
caused the premiums  to increase.
When Mr M first queried the premium increase on 31 December 2015, he was still 
within the cooling off period for his renewed  policy. Had Admiral told him that even if 
the open claim concluded as non-fault he might not get a full refund, then I think 
Mr M could  have shopped around to find another policy with a different insurer,  
possibly on better terms. I therefore  intend  to uphold this part of the complaint and 
require Admiral to refund  Mr M the increased parts of the premiums for the 
30 December 2015 and 30 December 2016  policy  renewals when compared to the 
premium he paid for the 30 December 2014  policy. Simple interest at 8% a year 
should be paid on the refund from the dates he made payment until the date of 
refund.
The December 2015 renewal included an additional  car that wasnt insured during 
the previous policy  year.  So, the refund  for the 2015  policy year should  be the 
difference between  the premium charged for the four cars in 2014 and the premium 
charged for the same four cars in 2015. I think it would be helpful if Admiral provide 
Mr M a letter  with a breakdown showing  the premium charged for each of the four 
cars in 2014  and the premium charged for the four cars in 2015.
The December 2016 renewal only covered two cars both of which were insured 
during the 2014 policy year. So, the refund for the 2016 policy  year should be the 
difference between  the premium charged for the two cars in 2014 and the premium 
charged for the same two cars in 2016.  I think it would be helpful if Admiral provide 
Mr M a letter  with a breakdown showing  the premium charged for each of the two 
cars in 2014  and the premium charged for the two cars in 2016.
I also intend to require Admiral to pay Mr M £150 compensation to address the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of this complaint. The 
compensation of £150 I intend to award is in addition to the £50 compensation 
Admiral had offered  Mr M before he brought his complaint to our service.
Finally, if Mr M is unhappy with how his legal  claim was dealt with under his motor 
legal expenses insurance, I think he should raise  that with the solicitor responsible for 
the uninsured  losses claim or with the legal ombudsman. Thats because I 
understand Admiral  didnt  underwrite  the legal expenses insurance,  therefore they 
arent responsible for how the claim  for uninsured losses was dealt with. Mr M may 
also raise his concerns  with the underwriter of the motor legal expenses claim. But 
that issue isnt something I can consider in this decision.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. On the whole, Mr M agreed  with my 
provisional findings. But he raised  a number of concerns he had with his uninsured losses 
and how they were dealt with; the valuation Admiral  placed  on his car when  it was deemed a 
total loss; and with the premium he paid for the fifth car during the December 2015 policy 
year.
Admiral said they dont rate on a claim being open  or closed, only the impact of the NCB.
Ref: DRN22000354my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
Our service has written  to Mr M separately  responding  to the outstanding  issues hes raised  
in response to my second provisional  decision.  And as those arent things that affect my 
decision in this complaint, I wont comment on those in this decision.
In relation to Admirals  comment  that they dont rate on a claim being  open or closed, while 
Im grateful  for that clarification I dont think it has a bearing on the outcome of this 
complaint. But Im aware that Admiral  will treat all open claims as if they affected the NCB 
(that is as if they are a fault claim) until those claims are closed. The impression given to    
Mr M by Admiral  was that the open  claim was impacting his NCB which in turn caused his 
premiums to increase.  And in the event the claim closed in his favour and his NCB was 
reinstated he would  be refunded the increased portion of his premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Refund Mr M the increased  parts of the premiums because of the open claim for the 
30 December 2015 (four cars) and 30 December 2016  (two cars) policy  renewals 
when compared  to the premium he paid for the 30 December  2014  policy.  Thats: (1) 
the difference in premium between the four cars insured on the policy in December 
2014 and the same four cars insured on the policy in December 2015; and (2) the 
difference in premium  between the two cars insured on the policy in December 2014 
and the same two cars insured on the policy in December  2016. Simple  interest at 
8% a year should be paid on the refund from the dates Mr M made payment until the 
date of refund. 1
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr M has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr M how much  they have  taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2200035