K821x#15complaint
Miss I complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC didnt  clearly explain the impact of 
agreeing a payment arrangement and she wasnt aware missed  payments would be 
recorded on her credit  file. Miss I also complains that Tesco  recorded  a missed payment on 
her credit file when she tried to repay  her loan. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 December 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  in part. I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
my findings
Miss I contacted us and explained she didnt receive  the provisional  decision that was sent 
out on 20 December  2018. The investigator  forwarded another  copy and extended the 
deadline for Miss Is response to 18 January 2019. Miss I hasnt provided any further  
comment since. 
Tesco responded on 15 January 2019 and said it didnt agree with my decision  to uphold the 
complaint in part. Tesco says Miss I wouldve  seen  she had an additional  £800  available  and 
that she wouldve  known  the payment hadnt  gone  through. I appreciate Tescos point but its 
the same  as it made within  the original complaint submission and is something I considered 
when reaching  my provisional decision.  I still think Tesco shouldve done more  to make 
Miss I aware of whatd  happened and that, if it had done so, she wouldve moved  to clear the 
outstanding balance quickly. Ive not been  persuaded  to change my decision in light of 
Tescos most recent comments. 
Miss I hasnt responded and I havent been persuaded to change  my decision based on 
what Tescos  said. As a result, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came  to in my 
provisional decision and I still think Tesco should  remove the missed payment it reported to 
the credit  reference  agencies  following  Miss Is attempt  to repay the loan in September 2017
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, my decision is that I uphold  this 
complaint in part and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC to remove the adverse information 
its reported for November  2017  and pay Miss I £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN28191392Copy provisional decision of 20 December 2018
Complaint
Miss I complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt clearly explain the impact of
agreeing a payment  arrangement and she wasnt aware missed payments would be
recorded on her credit  file. Miss I also complains that Tesco recorded  a missed  payment on
her credit file when she tried to repay her loan.
background
Miss I had a personal  loan with Tesco. In November  2016 she missed a payment  and called
Tesco to discuss her options. She explained shed recently changed  jobs and didnt have
Ref: DRN28191393enough money to make her payment. Miss I asked whether she could make the payment
with a credit  card but was told that wasnt allowed.
Tesco went on to discuss options with Miss I and agreed a payment arrangement to accept
£300 a month  for six months and suspend interest. After that Miss I had the option to repay
the outstanding arrears balance  or take another payment arrangement, increasing her
monthly payment to repay the arrears balance  over a further  six months without interest.
During the calls Tesco advised the payment  arrangement  would be reported to the credit
reference agencies.
Miss I agreed  to proceed with the arrangement  which  would start from 1 January 2017. On
2 December 2016 Tesco sent a Notice of Sum in Arrears to Miss I which showed how much
her loan was behind  by. On 7 December 2016 Tesco sent a letter  confirming  the payment
arrangement details.
Miss I made reduced payments of £300 for six months, then extended  the payment
arrangement and increased her monthly payment to £800 to repay the outstanding arrears
balance.
Miss I tried to repay the loan in September 2017 but there was a problem with her final
payment. Miss I says Tesco  told her to cancel her direct debit  instruction with her bank after
itd provided  a settlement  figure  but it hadnt yet collected her last payment. As a result,  after
Miss I made a payment to clear her loan, a balance remained outstanding and Tesco
reported this as a missed  payment to the credit reference agencies.
Miss I complained but Tesco didnt agree it had made an error.  It said the payment
arrangement had been  explained when Miss I called and that the final payment hadnt been
collected because shed cancelled her direct debit instruction with her bank.
Miss I referred her complaint  to this service and an investigator looked at what  had
happened. They upheld the complaint as they felt Tesco shouldve been  clearer when
discussing the payment arrangements with Miss I. And they also felt Tesco  had provided
misleading information  about  what Miss I needed to pay when she was trying to repay  the
loan balance  so thought registering a missed payment against her was unfair.
As Tesco didnt accept the investigators view the case has been passed to me to make a
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This case falls broadly into two parts 
how the initial  payment arrangement was explained  to Miss I and the way the final loan
repayment was handled  by Tesco. Ill deal with each part in turn.
Miss I says that Tesco didnt clearly explain  the implications  of the payment arrangement
when she discussed  missing  a payment in November  2016. Ive listened to all the calls
Miss Is had with Tesco  and Ive paid particular  attention to the calls where she discussed
options while  between  jobs. But Im unable  to agree with the investigators view that details
of the arrears werent explained to Miss I. Ill explain why.
When Miss I first discussed  a payment arrangement  with Tesco on 4 November  2016 the
call handler  explained  that she could  make reduced payments of £300 a month but arrears
would still be calculated. The call handler  went on to say Miss I would have an arrears
balance of around £1,967 at the end of six months  which could be cleared in a lump sum or
by agreeing a further payment arrangement.
Miss I spoke with Tesco  again on 12 November 2016 and the payment arrangement was
Ref: DRN28191394finalised. I agree that during this call the person  Miss I spoke to couldve  been clearer in
explaining how the payment arrangement would  be reported to the credit  reference
agencies. But Im satisfied  the previous person Miss I spoke to said the account would have
an arrears balance  while  she was making  lower payments.
Tesco went on to send Miss I important information about her account  status  on
2 December 2016, setting  out the level of arrears at that time and providing information
about arrears  from the Financial Conduct Authority. This was before Tescos letter of
7 December 2016 where it confirmed  the payment arrangement had been agreed. So I think
Miss I was sent clear  information about the arrears on her account  before the payment
arrangement took effect.
I also need  to consider what  Miss I wouldve done differently if Tesco had provided a clearer
explanation of how the payment arrangement would affect her credit file. And I have to take
into account  that when Miss I first called  to speak with Tesco about her missed payment she
asked to make it up using  a credit card. Tesco  explained it couldnt  accept a payment  from a
credit card so didnt agree.
I think  the fact Miss I was hoping to use a credit card to maintain the Tesco debt shows she
was experiencing financial  difficulties at the time and her options  were limited. I take on
board that the investigator thought a family  member couldve stepped in to help earlier, but if
that option  had been available to Miss I at the time I think shed have said so. From what Ive
seen, Miss Is options at this point were  limited.
I also note when Miss I discussed the payment arrangement with Tesco  on
12 November 2016 she asked whether  the information Tesco reports would stop her
obtaining new credit  but went on to say she wasnt planning  to borrow  more in any case.
From what Ive heard, Miss I was aware that information Tesco  reported to the credit
reference agency could  affect her ability to obtain credit in the future.
Taking everything together, Im satisfied  Tesco  did explain Miss Is loan was in arrears and
that it would report information about the subsequent payment arrangement to the credit
reference agencies. And while I accept  the information  couldve been clearer, Im not
persuaded Miss I was in a position to take a different approach to the missed  payments at
the end of 2016 when  she talked to Tesco.
I know this will disappoint  Miss I as shes  hoping to get a mortgage  and the information  on
her credit file may impact  that, but Ive not found Tesco misled her or unfairly  recorded
arrears on her credit  file during the payment  arrangement. As a result, I dont  intent to tell
Tesco to change the information its reported.
Ive looked at what  happened when Miss I repaid  the loan balance in 2017. And I agree with
the investigators view that the information Miss I was given wasnt clear  for the same
reasons. Im satisfied Miss I wouldve quickly cleared the final loan payment if shed been
made aware itd been missed by Tesco at the time. Certainly, I dont think  its fair for Tesco
to have recorded  a missed  payment against her with the credit  reference agencies in the
circumstances.
So Im minded to uphold this part of Miss Is complaint and tell Tesco to remove the missed
payment it reported to the credit reference  agencies.
For the reasons  Ive given above, Im not upholding Miss Is complaint about whether the
impact of a payment arrangement on her credit file was clearly  explained. But I am upholding
Miss Is complaint  about the missed payment Tesco recorded with the credit reference
Ref: DRN28191395agencies after shed taken steps  to repay the loan.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments by 3 January 2019. But unless anything  changes  my
mind, for the reasons  given above, my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold this
complaint in part and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to remove the adverse information
its reported for November 2017 and pay Miss I £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2819139