K820x#14complaint
O, a company  which Ill call the company  complains that Ulster Bank Ltd (the bank) 
mis-sold it a fixed interest rate commercial  loan in 2004. 
The company says in particular that the bank didnt adequately explain, before the company 
agreed to the fixed rate loan, how large  the break costs might  be if the loan were repaid in 
full or in part before the fixed interest  rate period came to an end. 
background
The relevant  loan, which was the continuation  of an existing loan facility between  the 
company and the bank, began in 2004  and was to last for 12 years  and six months.  The 
interest rate was to be fixed for the first ten years. 
The fixed  rate period  ran its course  without the loan being  repaid in whole or in part, so the 
company didnt actually pay any break costs.
The companys business was dealing  in property.
A representative complained to the bank on the companys behalf. The complaint was that a 
fixed rate loan with potentially  very large  break  costs  was unsuitable for the company 
because the company, as a property company, needed to retain full financial flexibility.  
The company argued  that, if the bank  had adequately informed it about the size of break 
costs, which  the bank should have  done but hadnt, the company would instead have 
chosen to pay, or remained on, the variable interest  rate. 
So the complaint outcome should,  in the companys eyes, be a refund with interest of the 
extra money the company had paid by paying  the fixed  interest  rate instead of the variable 
rate. A further claim for consequential losses might then follow.
The company also complained that the bank hadnt  informed it how it remunerated  its staff in 
respect of the loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the companys complaint. He found  that the bank hadnt 
adequately informed the company about the potential size of the break  costs.  But he also 
concluded the company wouldnt have acted any differently even if it had known how large 
the break costs  might  be. 
He also found  that the bank hadnt been obliged to tell the company how it would  reward  its 
staff in respect of the loan or how it priced its products. He said the company had known the 
interest rate it would pay under  the loan and the margin  payable above the banks base rate 
when the fixed  rate expired, so it had been  able to make a properly informed decision about 
whether to proceed with the loan.  
The company didnt accept the adjudicators  conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN24609162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the company  but I 
too have concluded the complaint  doesnt  succeed, and for reasons broadly similar to those 
of the adjudicator. 
The company didnt put forward any new evidence  or arguments  following the adjudicators 
conclusions, nor did it explain  why it disagreed  with them. My review therefore  had to be 
based on the same evidence  and arguments  that were available  to the adjudicator.
There was no condition  by the bank that the company  had to fix the interest rate in 2004. 
Whether or not it was the banks suggestion  that the company should take out a fixed  rate 
loan, it appears it was ultimately the companys choice to do so. 
There is of course nothing inherently unusual or inappropriate about choosing to pay a fixed 
interest rate. It provides  certainty and protects  against loan servicing  costs  becoming 
unaffordable should market interest  rates rise. A fixed interest rate can be particularly useful 
to property companies with a fixed rental  income from which loan repayments are made. 
Like the adjudicator,  I havent been  persuaded that the company would have acted any 
differently in 2004 if it had known how large  the break costs  might be if it repaid the fixed rate 
loan early. Theres no evidence the company planned or intended in 2004 to repay the loan 
in the next ten years.  
Nor indeed  is there any evidence of the company approaching the bank in the ten year 
period asking to repay or indicating it might wish to repay. This was so even when market 
interest rates fell so markedly and remained at a low level following the 2008 financial crisis. 
So although  I agree  that the bank could  have done more to make the company aware  in 
2004 how large the break costs under the fixed rate loan might be, I dont think  this made 
any material difference to the outcome.
I also agree  the bank  had no obligation  to tell the company how it rewarded  its staff or priced 
its loan products. The company could make up its mind about the loan on the basis  of the 
fixed interest rate and thereafter the margin above  base rate that were offered to it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Os complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask O to accept or reject my decision before  14 March 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460916