K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains about instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal  Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans), (SL),  which  he said were  unaffordable. The complaint 
was brought to this service on Mr Ys behalf  by a claims management company. But for 
ease, I shall refer below to all actions being  taken  by Mr Y.
background
Mr Y was given 14 instalment loans by SL between January 2015 and April 2017.  Loan 14 
hasnt been repaid. Most of the loans were  due to be repaid  by weekly  instalments.  But I 
have shown below the approximate monthly  equivalent amounts. A summary of the loans 
taken out by Mr Y is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Monthly instalment  amounts 
1. 15/1/15 29/1/15 £400 3 instalments of £186.68
2. 13/2/15 15/6/15 £900 9 instalments of £180.01
3. 23/10/15 2/11/15 £700 12 instalments of £116.09
4. 6/11/15 20/11/15 £1,000 12 instalments of £165.84
5. 12/2/16 15/2/16 £1,800 12 instalments of £298.48
6. 21/3/16 24/3/16 £1,000 12 instalments of £221.13
7. 29/4/16 9/5/16 £1,800 12 instalments of £298.48
8. 26/8/16 7/9/16 £1,800 12 instalments of £298.48
9. 16/9/16 30/9/16 £1,000 12 instalments of £221.13
10. 6/10/16 2/11/16 £1,000 Around 10 instalments  of 
£200.55
11. 4/11/16 15/11/16 £2,000 12 instalments of £331.67
12. 25/11/16 26/11/16 £1,000 12 instalments of £166
13. 9/12/16 14/12/16 £1,500 Around 9 instalments of  
unknown amounts
14. 17/4/17 Unpaid £1,500 12 instalments of £248.73
SLs final response letter  only referred to 13 loans. It appears that Loan 13 in my table above  
wasnt included in SLs final response  letter. But SL has sent this service some information  
about Loan 13 although it hasnt provided us with information about the number of 
instalments and the instalment amounts for that loan. 
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr Y for details of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Ys declared  
expenses to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit check. SL said that its checks 
didnt demonstrate that the loans were  unaffordable.
The adjudicator in his view said there  were  13 loans. He concluded that SL shouldnt  have 
lent to Mr Y from Loan 5 onwards. 
Neither Mr Y nor SL has provided a substantive response to the adjudicators 
recommendations. So the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, to consider.
Ref: DRN20327322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When SL lent to Mr Y the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
SL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr Y could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ys 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr Y. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that SL was required to establish  whether 
Mr Y could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint.
SL did a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr Y. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. And SL increased Mr Ys declared  expenditure  in its assessment to reflect what 
Ref: DRN20327323it had seen in its credit checks. I can also see that SL checked Mr Ys housing  status. From 
the information SL gathered, I can see that Mr Y paid rent. 
SL also checked  Mr Ys credit file before agreeing to the loans. SL has provided this service  
with a record of its credit  checks,  although  some of the detail in these was difficult to 
understand. Otherwise, I havent seen any adverse information on SLs checks that I think 
should have caused additional concerns  to SL. Mr Y has also provided this service with a 
copy of his credit report and I shall refer to this below. 
I think that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 to 3 were  proportionate. The 
repayments that Mr Y needed to make on Loans 1 to 3 were relatively modest compared to 
the income that he declared to SL. The highest  monthly repayment  for Loans 1 to 3 was 
£186.68. I dont  think the repayments were so large  that its obvious  they wouldve caused  
Mr Y financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ys repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for SL to ask 
him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr Y provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think SL was wrong  to give Loans  1 to 3 to Mr Y.
But although  Loans 1 to 3 were scheduled to be repaid over a number of months,  Mr Y 
repaid each of them  early. The longest loan, Loan 2, lasted  four months instead of nine. SL 
said that Loans 1 and 3 were withdrawn. I note that they were repaid within two weeks  of 
having been taken out with some interest  being repaid on the principal borrowed. I think that 
this behaviour might have  caused  SL some concerns.  
So when Loan 4 was taken out just four days after Loan 3 was repaid, I think  a greater level 
of checks would have  been proportionate. The loan amount had increased  to £1,000 and 
was again repayable over 12 months. So, I think it might have been proportionate at this 
time for SL to have  gathered some  further information from Mr Y about his other  short term 
borrowing. Had it done so, its likely  that SL wouldve learnt  that Mr Y had borrowed one 
other short term loan for £770 in the month  before Loan 4 but this was repaid around five 
days later and before Loan 4 was taken  out. Ive seen this in Mr Ys credit  report.  I also note 
that SL had considered Mr Ys expenses to be around £644 higher than Mr Y had declared 
as a result  of what it had seen on its own credit checks. Nevertheless, I can see that the 
monthly repayments on Loan 4 were sustainably within  what  SLs checks  showed Mr Ys 
disposable income to be. 
Given Mr Ys repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate  for SL to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And I cant see there was anything in the information  Mr Y provided  or the information SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying at this time. So I dont think SL was wrong to give Loan 4 to Mr Y.
Ref: DRN20327324Loan 4 was scheduled to be repaid  over 12 months,  but Mr Y again repaid it early  and within 
two weeks of it having been taken  out. SL said that Loan 4 had been withdrawn. I note that 
Mr Y had repaid  some interest on the principal borrowed. I again think that this behaviour 
might have caused SL some concerns before Loan 5. 
The amount  of Loan 5 had substantially increased to £1,800  with 12 monthly instalments of 
£298.48 to be repaid.  And Loan  5 was Mr Ys third loan in less than four months.  So, I think 
by the time of Loan 5 it might have been proportionate for SL to have independently 
reviewed the true state of Mr Ys finances.  If it had done so, it would have seen  that Mr Ys 
income from his employment  was substantially less than hed declared  at around £1,328. It 
would also have seen  that Mr Y received  Disability Living Allowance  (DLA).  I think its likely 
that Mr Y had included  his DLA as part of the income he declared to SL. While it was Mr Ys 
choice how to spend that money, I think SL might have considered  the likelihood that he 
needed to pay for additional resources associated with the disability, and so he would have 
had less disposable income available  to repay  Loan  5. 
SL would also have  seen  from an independent review that Mr Y was spending a significant  
percentage of his income on gambling. So I think SL ought to have realised that Mr Y was 
having problems  managing his money and it was unlikely Mr Y wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay  Loan  5. And as a responsible  lender it wouldnt have agreed to lend 
Loan 5 to him.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of SLs lending history with Mr Y, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so SL should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ys case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 6. I say this because:
Mr Y had taken out a loan of £400 around  14 months earlier  and he was now asking 
for a loan of £1,800. He hadnt made  any inroads into his debt over this time and had 
paid high interest rates to, in effect,  service a debt to SL over an extended period. 
Mr Y had repaid  each  of his loans early.  I think that behaviour  should  have caused 
concerns to SL. 
There were  some  very small gaps  between loans  being repaid and a new loan being 
granted including one of around  four months  before Loan  3. But, I dont think it would 
have been reasonable  for SL to conclude these gaps were  any indication  that Mr Ys 
finances had moved  on from whatever situation  had required  his previous loans.
I can see that as SL didnt stop lending  at this point, Mr Y went  on to take out high cost loans 
for a further 13 months. 
I think that Mr Y lost out because SL continued to provide borrowing from Loan  6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ys indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr Y had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ys ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN20327325The fact that most  of the loans were  repaid doesnt mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr Y undue difficulty.  
I note that SL had said that its checks didnt  demonstrate that the loans were unaffordable. 
But SL was required to establish whether Mr Y could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. And 
SL will know from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our website) that there  are 
cases where this service considers the overall  lending pattern and not just the affordability of 
each loan. When a consumer borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time, its most  
likely that the loans arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As SL will know, the FCA made  it clear  in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I think thats the case here.
So Im upholding  this complaint in part and SL should put things right as follows.  I 
understand that there is a balance outstanding  on Loan 14. I would remind  SL of its 
responsibility to treat Mr Y in a positive and sympathetic manner  about  the amounts  he 
should repay. 
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr Y paid on Loans 5 to 13 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
with regard to Loan 14, refund all the interest  and charges that Mr Y has paid on 
Loan 14, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 14;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 14 and 
pay any balance to Mr Y; 
remove any adverse entries about Loan  5 from Mr Ys credit file; and
the number  of loans taken from Loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. All entries about Loans  6 to 13 should be removed from 
Mr Ys credit  file, and the entry  about Loan 14 should be removed once it has been 
fully repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr Y a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr Y paid on Loans 5 to 13 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 14, refund  all the interest and charges that Mr Y has paid on 
Loan 14, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 14;
Ref: DRN203273264.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  14 
and pay any balance  to Mr Y; 
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan  5 from Mr Ys credit file; and
6.The number of loans  taken from Loan 6 onwards  means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. All entries about  Loans  6 to 13 should be 
removed from Mr Ys credit file, and the entry about Loan 14 should be removed 
once it has been fully repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr Y a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2032732