K821x#15complaint
Mr B thinks  Everyday  Lending Limited  (trading as Everyday Loans) acted irresponsibly by 
lending him money  in May 2011.
background
In May 2011, Everyday  Lending lent Mr B £1,500. Mr B agreed to repay this amount, with 
interest, over 24 months. The monthly  loan repayment was £99.33, and if Mr B made each 
payment when due hed repay £2,335.26 in total.
Mr B thinks  Everyday  Lending acted irresponsibly by lending  him the money.  He says he 
ended up being  unable to afford the repayments,  and had to arrange a debt management 
plan. 
Everyday Lending  initially objected to us looking to the complaint, because it said Mr B didnt 
bring the complaint within the time limits that apply. An ombudsman looked  at this and said 
this was a complaint we could consider. The complaint was then passed  to an adjudicator  to 
review.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  it should be upheld. She said that Mr B 
had a low income, and as such thought Everyday Lending needed to carry out more detailed  
checks about his general financial position.  She felt given  Mr Bs housing  and living  costs,  
together with his existing debts, he wasnt in a position to take on further  credit  
commitments.
Everyday Lending  disagrees. It says the credit reference it obtained  at the time didnt show  
Mr Bs other short term debts. Our adjudicator, in response,  said that Everyday Lending  
knew Mr B had a second bank account, and that if it had looked  into this further  it would 
have been aware  of Mr Bs other debts.
Everyday Lending  didnt reply to the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the relevant  time.
In this case, the main guidance  was the Office of Fair Tradings guidance on irresponsible 
lending.
Everyday Lending  was entering  into a regulated  consumer credit agreement. Everyday 
Lending needed to make a reasonable assessment of whether Mr B could afford to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner.  
Ref: DRN28467322This involved a consideration of the potential for the credit commitment  to adversely impact 
on the borrowers financial situation,  taking  account  of information that the creditor is aware 
of at the time the credit is granted.
In particular, credit ought to be repaid  by the borrower without undue difficulty   that is, 
without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness  over the life of the credit  agreement 
out of income  or available savings without  having  to realise security or assets.
This also means the borrower had to be able to make repayments while also meeting other  
debt repayments  and other normal  outgoings, and without having to borrow  to meet these 
repayments.
The extent  of any affordability assessment had to be proportionate,  and might  depend on a 
number of factors, including the type of credit, the amount  and cost of the credit,  and the 
circumstances of the borrower  including credit history and other  financial commitments.
In light of this, I think reasonable and proportionate checks would generally be more  
thorough:
The lower a customers income  (as it could be harder to make  any loan repayments 
from a lower income)
The higher  the amount to be repaid (as it could be harder to meet a higher 
repayment from a given income)
The longer  the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely  to be greater and 
the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
Ive looked at what Everyday Lending has done with this in mind.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr B applied for this loan in late April 2011. He wanted to borrow 
£1,500 to consolidate debt. He told Everyday Lending he was paid every four weeks,  and 
that his pay varied  depending on overtime.
According to Everyday Lendings  system notes, it had sight  of a payslip, and a mortgage 
statement. It also looked at one of Mr Bs bank statements. It has sent us a copy of the bank 
statement. Everyday Lending  has also sent us a credit  report from a credit  reference agency 
which it says it took into account before deciding to lend.
Ive carefully considered  the information  shown on these documents. Having done  so, I think  
it would  have been proportionate for Everyday Lending to have carried  out further  checks. Ill 
explain why.
First, I note that Mr Bs income  was relatively low  and he said it fluctuated depending on 
overtime. So I think there was a real prospect that Mr Bs income might change materially 
during the 24 month term of the loan.
Second, I note the expenditure shown on his bank  statement was roughly the same as his 
income. And I see that, according to the credit file, Mr B was having difficulties meeting 
payments towards  his existing debts as and when they were due  I see a number of missed 
payments towards  one of his credit  cards,  and the balance of this card was also over its 
credit limit. Mr B had also taken out a second  credit card within the last six months, and he 
was close to the limit of this card as well. Finally,  the credit  file showed that Mr B had a 
second current account, and that Mr B had exceeded his overdraft limit on this account.
Ref: DRN28467323Finally, Mr B told Everyday Lending  he was using the loan to consolidate debt. But I note 
that the amount Mr B wanted to consolidate was rather more than the outstanding debt 
shown on his credit file, and the monthly payments towards this new loan were  greater than 
the payments  shown  towards the unsecured  debts shown  on his credit  file. This suggests  to 
me that there might  have  been other  debts,  beyond the ones shown on the credit file. And it 
certainly suggests that the information  shown on Mr Bs statements didnt give a full picture 
of his current financial circumstances. 
Based on the information Ive seen about Mr Bs circumstances, I think further checks would  
have been appropriate. 
Ive therefore  gone  on to consider what further checks would more likely than not have 
revealed. Mr B has told us that at the time he took out this loan, he had a number of 
defaulted accounts and a number of payday loans.  Based on what  Ive seen, it looks  as 
though the defaults  didnt happen  until after he took out the loan from Everyday Lending. But 
I do see that he had a series of short  term loans from early December 2009 onwards. Based 
on what Ive seen, Mr B drew down around  15 short term loans  from the end of December 
2009 to the date he borrowed from Everyday  Lending, and on 10 occasions  he deferred 
repayment of a short term loan by extending  its term. 
Around the time he applied for this loan, on 26 April Mr B drew down a loan of £500  from 
one lender, and on 27 April, he drew  down a loan of £280 from another lender. And I see 
that he needed to pay £976 in May 2011 to repay these loans. I acknowledge that these 
loans didnt appear on Mr Bs credit  file. But I think its likely that, had Everyday Lending 
asked for details of Mr Bs other  bank  account, it would have become aware of these loans. 
And I think if it had it would have questioned whether further lending was sustainable.
As Ive already  noted, the amount Mr B was spending according to his bank statement was 
already close to his monthly wage. The payments towards this new loan were already 
greater than the existing unsecured credit commitments that Everyday Lending were aware 
of. But when we take this together  with Mr Bs history of short  term lending,  I think there was 
a real prospect that Mr B would need  to borrow again to fund his new commitments.  I dont 
think that the repayments to this new loan were  sustainable,  and I dont think  Everyday 
Lending should have lent Mr B this loan.
putting things right
Everyday Lending  shouldnt have lent Mr B the money. I understand there  may be a balance  
outstanding on it. So to put things  right Everyday Lending should:
Remove any interest, fees and charges from the loan, so he only needs to repay the 
£1,500 he originally borrowed;
Apply the payments Mr B has made to the loan to the £1,500  he borrowed. 
If this means Mr B has paid more  than £1,500, Everyday Lending should refund any 
overpayment. Everyday Lending  should  add interest to any overpayment (the rate is 
8% per year*) from the date Mr B paid it until the date he gets it back.
If Mr B still owes an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should arrange  an 
affordable repayment plan with him.
Everyday Lending should remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Bs credit 
file in relation  to the loan once  the loan is settled.
Ref: DRN28467324*HM Revenue and Customs requires Everyday Lending to take tax off this interest. It should give Mr B 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited should put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2846732