K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly settled a claim under his car 
insurance policy as a fault claim.  
background
In October  2017 Mr C was involved in an incident  in a car park and he reported it to his 
insurer, Aviva. He sent a diagram and photos  by email to Aviva.  Mr C said he wasnt  at fault 
for the incident.  
Aviva didnt look at the information Mr C provided. In January 2018  it settled the claim as a 
fault claim.  But it didnt  tell Mr C. He found out when he contacted his broker  at renewal 
because he thought his premium had gone  up significantly. 
Aviva didnt change  its decision regarding liability. Mr C said he was reversing out of a car 
park space when the collision happened. So Aviva said the onus was on Mr C to check it 
was clear before carrying out his manoeuvre. 
But it acknowledged that it could have handled the claim better and should  have told Mr C 
when it settled it. Mr C said the difference in premium came to around  £160 as a result of the 
fault claim.  Aviva agreed to pay Mr C £200 compensation. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He wanted Aviva  to apologise  for its liability  decision and 
compensate him for the aggravation  it had caused him. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. 
Mr C didnt agree. He believes its clear from the evidence  hes provided that the other  driver  
was at fault for the incident.  So he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  We can look at whether an insurer has 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Cs policy  with Aviva says it can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This 
isnt an unusual term as its in most  if not all car insurance policies Ive seen. This means 
that Aviva  might  make a decision Mr C doesnt agree with, but the policy  allows Aviva to do 
this. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided the insurer  has treated  its 
customer fairly.
The other driver said that Mr C reversed  out and caused the collision. Mr C says he checked 
it was clear before he began reversing out of a car park space  - and believes the other driver 
collided with his car because they came out of a no entry section. There were  no 
independent witnesses and no CCTV footage. 
Ref: DRN26072172Aviva accepts that it didnt  look at the diagram and photos Mr C provided in October  2017.  It 
should have done this. However, I dont think it would have made  a difference to the 
outcome. I can see from Mr Cs version  of events  to Aviva that he said he was slowly 
backing out and had checked both ways and behind him  he said he can only assume  the 
other driver had pulled out of an exit behind  him that was a no entry. 
But based  on the evidence available, I think Aviva  reached its decision to settle the claim as 
a fault claim reasonably. There isnt any evidence that the other driver came out of the exit 
Mr C believes  he came from. The greater duty of care is on the party  carrying out a reverse 
manoeuvre. And Aviva  managed Mr Cs expectations in the initial  call by explaining  that it 
would most  likely hold Mr C at fault for the incident. At best, it said it might  settle the claim as 
a 50%50% split liability claim. But even if that were the case, the claim would  still be 
recorded as a fault claim. Any claim which holds a party partly or fully at fault is recorded as 
a fault claim. 
I understand Mr C believes the damage  proves  he wasnt  at fault.  But I dont think  this is 
true. The damage  shows there was a collision.
Aviva can decide that its better to settle  a claim rather than risk significant costs  of 
defending it - if it doesnt believe  its likely to succeed - in court. 
I know Mr C feels  Aviva hasnt treated him fairly.  I think Avivas service to Mr C has been 
poor. It should have  reviewed the information  he sent it in October 2017. And it should have 
told him when it settled the claim in January 2018. So although I think it reached its liability 
decision fairly, I can understand  why Mr C was shocked and upset at finding  out about  the 
settlement of the claim when he received his renewal documents from his broker.  
But I think Aviva  has done enough to put things right.  It said it was sorry Mr C felt it didnt 
reach the correct  liability decision. I think the £200 compensation its paid him is fair and 
reasonable for its failings in service. So I dont  think it needs to do any more.  
Aviva settled the claim on a without  prejudice basis.  This means  that Mr C can pursue the 
other driver directly if he wants to. Mr C will need to seek legal advice about that. 
Mr C told us he was unhappy that he had to arrange a hire car while  his car was being  
repaired. As Aviva reimbursed Mr C for the costs of the hire car, I think this was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2607217