K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card in a store in 1998.
FICL has taken responsibility for the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL  
in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy  Mrs L took out in 1998.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL  disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs L to take out the PPI, so it didnt have to consider whether  it was 
suitable for her. But, it still had to give her enough  clear and fair information about the 
PPI to make an informed choice about  whether it was right for her and she wanted  to buy 
it.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mrs L clear 
enough information about the PPI. I say this because  Mrs L had a pre-existing medical 
condition, which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. I think  had she known she 
couldnt claim for her pre-existing medical  condition, she wouldnt have bought the policy.  
So, I think Mrs L has lost out because of what FICL  did wrong.
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it has said about Mrs Ls 
condition usually being a manageable one. However, I note that Mrs L had been on daily 
medication for quite  some  time at the time of sale and given the nature  of her condition  I 
cant see that Mrs L couldve ruled  out having  to make a claim in respect of this condition.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs L would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN28108822If Mrs L made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs L would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL  works out what  Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs L paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs L wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.FICL  should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL  to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs L a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2810882