K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc made a mistake when processing a cheque  for 
payment of his home insurance policy  which led to the policy not being renewed.
background
In July 2018 Mr Ds Santander branded home insurance policy  was up for renewal. Mr D 
attempted to pay for the renewal by cheque. Because of an error  by Santander the payment  
wasnt applied to the policy and it wasnt renewed by the underwriter. 
Mr D was unaware anything had gone wrong  and presumed the policy had renewed. A few 
months later, because  he hadnt received any documentation about  the renewal, he 
contacted Santander which was when  the problem was discovered. 
Santander looked into things and Mr D did the same by getting a copy  of the cheque. Once 
Santander had a copy of the cheque they realised  the mistake  was caused by human error 
when an incorrect policy number was written on the back of the cheque. The payment was 
then processed to Mr Ds insurance  policy. The underwriter backdated the policy  to show 
there was no gap in insurance.
Santander apologised for what happened  and offered Mr D £150  in compensation. Mr D was 
unhappy with this and asked Santander to pay £1,000 as he says was the one who did the 
investigating to find out what happened. Mr D also had concerns  about how the mistake 
happened, as well as what might have  happened  if he needed to make a claim on his policy  
during the time it hadnt renewed. Santander  looked  at what Mr D said but maintained the 
offer of £150.  
Mr D didnt accept what Santander  offered  and brought his complaint  to this service  where  
one of our investigators  looked into what happened. He thought the £150  offered by 
Santander was a fair offer for the distress and inconvenience resulting from the error. Mr D 
remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I assure both parties Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round.
Santander admits that a mistake was made when an incorrect  policy  number was written  on 
the back of the cheque  when it was being  processed. This led to the funds  being  applied to 
the wrong policy. Mr D helped the investigation  by provided Santander with a copy of the 
cheque. Once this was done  the error  was located and funds were applied to Mr Ds policy.  
The policy was back dated by the underwriter  and the policy  shows as continuous cover with 
no gap in insurance.
Ref: DRN26230012I know Mr D has found this whole  process very distressing. He seeks answers about what  
happened as hes worried about the wider behaviour of financial institutions. However my 
role is look at what happened to Mr D in these particular circumstances and not any issues  
with other  organisations. 
Santander says that an incorrect policy number was written on the back  of the cheque due to 
human error and this caused the problem. Im persuaded this is a credible explanation, 
which is backed up by the evidence by way of a copy of the cheque that Mr D helpfully 
provided.
Mr D is also unhappy that he didnt receive any notification the policy had not renewed. This 
type of documentation is the responsibility  of the underwriter, and not Santander who 
administers the policy. Santander has explained  the underwriter wouldnt issue  anything  
where a policy  wasnt  renewed due to non-payment.  Im glad to see that Mr Ds policy was 
backdated to show continuous cover. This means Mr D has been put back in the position he 
wouldve been in had the problem not happened.
Mr D is worried  about what might have  happened  during the time the policy was not in place 
if he had to make a claim. When thinking  about  appropriate compensation I can only 
consider what did actually happen, and not what might have happened. Im glad to see that 
nothing did happen  when the policy wasnt in place,  but I know this must have been  
worrying.
Mr D went to some trouble by getting  a copy of the cheque and giving it to Santander which  
did take some time. Its clear a mistake was made  and Santander has apologised for this. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied the £150 Santander has offered is a fair and 
reasonable payment for what happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2623001