K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the interest rate that they have had to pay on their mortgage  
with The Mortgage  Business Plc (TMB). They  would like TMB to review the interest  rate.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with TMB  some time ago. They then took out a mortgage  
product in 2006 which allowed them to fix the interest rate for a period. At that time, the 
remaining term of the mortgage was for 21 years and nine months.  The interest rate was 
fixed at 5.79% until 31 May 2012  when it reverted  to TMBs  standard variable rate (SVR). At 
the time they took out the mortgage product the SVR was 7.34%. In 2012 Mr and Mrs P 
moved from a fixed rate of interest to the SVR.  For most of the period since the SVR was at 
4.95% which  was the interest rate payable by Mr and Mrs P. In September  2018 following on 
an increase in the Bank of England base rate the SVR went up to 5.2%. Mr and Mrs P cant  
understand why the interest rate would  go up if it was fixed  and in all this time, TMB hasnt 
reviewed their mortgage rate.
TMB says that in 2008 it made a business decision to cease any new lending  or offer 
existing customers new mortgage products  but that customers can use a remortgage service 
with Bank  of Scotland. It says that the interest  rate on Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was as set 
out in their mortgage offer.  Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as he felt that TMB  had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs P disagreed saying in summary  that 
they are unhappy  that the interest rate increased and that for three  or four years it hadnt  
gone down.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have  a mortgage with TMB and in December 2006 agreed  a product transfer 
that meant  a change  to the interest rate on their mortgage. TMB  has supplied a copy  of that 
offer. This shows that Mr and Mrs P agreed  to fix the interest  rate until 31 May 2012 at 
5.70%. They  then agreed that the interest rate would be set at TMBs  SVR thereafter.
In 2006 that TMBs SVR was 7.34 % but when Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage went  onto the SVR 
in 2012, the interest rate was less. TMB  has supplied us with a number of annual  statements 
which shows that between 2013  and August 2018  the interest rate that Mr and Mrs P had to 
pay was 4.95%. So, the SVR charged by TMB in this period was about a third less than the 
SVR would have  been in 2006. This would indicate  that the SVR did fall with the general fall 
in interest rates.
 
Mr and Mrs P point  out, this was a variable interest  rate. TMB kept the SVR at the same rate 
throughout this period. TMB  did change its SVR in September  2018  which  increased the 
payments Mr and Mrs P had to make. TMB say that they kept the SVR steady for a long 
period of time and only increased  the SVR when interest rates increased which  is what  
seems to have happened.
Ref: DRN22425002TMB could always vary the SVR and that was what Mr and Mrs P agreed  to when they took 
out the mortgage offer. So, although  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P are annoyed  that they 
have to pay more  for their mortgage, I cant say that TMB has done anything wrong by 
increasing the interest rate in September. Mr and Mrs P could avoid the SVR if they could 
obtain an alternative mortgage  but that is a matter for them  to source  if they can.
I note that since 2008,  TMB hasnt offered new products to existing customers. That is a 
commercial decision which TMB  can make.  I see that TMB has suggested that instead Mr 
and Mrs P should contact  Bank of Scotlands specialist remortgage team or a mortgage  
broker or financial adviser. Obviously if Mr and Mrs P wish to explore those options that is a 
matter for them. But I dont consider that TMB  has done anything wrong and so I cant  fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2242500