K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2008. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the PPI mis-sale complaint  should be rejected and thought the 
amount of hidden commission  which Bank of Scotland  paid was fair. Mr H disagreed with our 
adjudicators view about the mis-sale and asked  for the matter to be looked at again.
He added he was not told about PPI; he did not tick the box to say he wanted PPI and was 
not told anything  about the PPI cover or the cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the PPI application  form that Mr H didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he may 
not be able to remember this.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
probably was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time of the sale. So I dont  think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
 Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN22432902Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what he said about not knowing PPI 
had been added, not being told anything  about PPI and not ticking  the PPI box on the 
application form. But these points dont change my decision because  I can see from the PPI 
application form that he had to sign separately to show the PPI could be added  to his 
account.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243290