K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt raise a chargeback for a parcel that went 
missing.
background
Mr C says he sent a parcel  by registered post on 17 December  2018 and paid for that with 
his Lloyds debit  card. He says the parcel wasnt delivered and so wrote to Lloyds on 4 
January 2019  to raise a chargeback for him. Mr C says by 4 March 2019  he still hadnt  
received a response from Lloyds. Mr C says hes lost money as a result which caused him 
depression over Christmas. He would like Lloyds to refund the delivery costs of £14.45.
Lloyds initially said Mr C had asked it to raise a chargeback outside of the 120 days  for doing 
so. It said Mr C had written to it using an incorrect address for chargeback disputes and it 
had previously given  him the correct address. Lloyds said it didnt receive that letter  and that 
Mr C could have raised the issue when he called  it about another  matter  which  would have 
been within the time limit.
Mr C had already brought his complaint to us and our investigator  upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought  there was evidence that Lloyds had received a letter from Mr C in 
January 2019  and so recommended Lloyds pay for the cost of the delivery of £14.45 and 8% 
interest. The investigator thought Mr C could have raised the issue  when he spoke to Lloyds 
about the other matter and didnt think any compensation was appropriate.
Lloyds has agreed  to pay the £14.45  but says interest isnt appropriate as no interest  was 
payable on Mr Cs account.
Mr C doesnt accept  that view and says he sent the letter  to the address he had previously 
used and says Lloyds accepts it received a letter from him. He says he should  be paid 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I uphold  this complaint for 
similar reasons to the investigator but I think the fairest resolution would be for Lloyds  to pay 
Mr C compensation for the reasons I will explain.
I have looked  at the letter Mr C sent to Lloyds on 4 January  2019  in which he asked it to 
raise a chargeback.  I can see that Mr C provided details of the reason why he wanted a 
chargeback to be raised and that he was aware  of the 120 days time limit for doing so. I 
appreciate Lloyds initially said it had no trace of receiving that letter but now accepts 
receiving something from Mr C but cant say what. I think  on balance that Mr C did write  to 
Lloyds and it was that letter that was received. So I dont think  Lloyds  acted on that letter  and 
raised that chargeback as Mr C wanted.  
I appreciate that Lloyds  says that Mr C was aware of the correct address  to write to and 
could have raised this issue  when he called  about another  matter.  I have looked at Lloyds 
records and can see that Mr C did ask Lloyds for an update when he called. So Ive come to 
the conclusion  that both parties could have done  more in these circumstances. I think  Lloyds  
should have raised the chargeback. But that Mr C, as he was aware of the chargeback 
Ref: DRN25688972procedure and time limits, could  have followed up his letter before the 120 days had expired. 
I also accept that even if Lloyds had made a chargeback  there would have been no 
guarantee of success and I accept that Lloyds  may have decided  there  was no real prospect 
of success in these  circumstances.
Overall I find that Lloyds didnt deal with this matter as it should. And so it follows that I think 
it should pay compensation rather than simply refund the cost of Mr Cs delivery. I dont think  
Mr C has suffered any financial loss apart  from the delivery loss and the cost of writing to 
Lloyds. And I think the mistake would have had a limited  affect  on Mr C. I dont think it was 
Lloyds fault Mr Cs Christmas was affected and that any chargeback would not have been  
resolved until a significant period  of time after Christmas even  if it had been  raised.
I think that the fairest approach would be for Lloyds to pay £25 compensation which I think 
takes account of the cost of the delivery  and any extra costs  Mr C paid by writing  to Lloyds.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C £25 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2568897