K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the pressure she was put under by Accord Mortgages Limited when 
the term of her interest-only  mortgage came to an end. Mrs C wants compensation for the 
unnecessary extra  expense involved in stopping the house being  repossessed.
background
Mrs C took out an interest-only mortgage with Accord in January 2008  to buy a new build  
property. The capital  balance  was £181,675  over a ten year term. Mrs C moved  from the 
property in 2012 and has been letting it out. Although  she informed Accord about  the change  
of address, Accord accepts that it didnt record it. So, since 2012 Accord was sending  
correspondence about the mortgage  to an address which Mrs C owned but didnt live in. 
This would have included letters to contact  the lender in advance  of when the mortgage 
matured in January  2018.
Shortly after the term ended Accord made  contact and discovered that the property was now 
let out. Mrs C wanted to continue  to own the property if she could for a further five years  in 
the hope of releasing more equity when she came  to sell the property. Mrs C initially wanted 
a mortgage extension. Accord said that she didnt qualify for such  an extension as the 
property was let out and as she had a residential  mortgage. Mrs C proceeded  to apply for a 
buy to let type mortgage with Accord through the summer of 2018. This was refused on 
affordability grounds but Accord  sent the application to an underwriter and Mrs C was 
informed of the final refusal at the beginning of October 2018.  
Mrs C then contacted  a broker she had been  working with to see if she could get a re-
mortgage elsewhere. The broker was able to deliver an Agreement in Principle and the 
name of the proposed lender to Accord.  But Accord sent a number of formal demand  letters  
and in the absence of a mortgage offer issued legal proceedings  for possession at the end of 
February 2019. Mrs C had also in the meantime put her house on the market. The court 
granted an Order  for Possession  on 2 April 2019. Mrs Cs remortgage completed on 16 April 
2019 when the Accord mortgage  was redeemed.
Accord agreed that it hadnt  recorded Mrs Cs change of address correctly  and offered Mrs C 
redress of £60 to include £20 for a registration with CIFAS  a protective registration service. 
Our investigator thought that this level of compensation was too low and recommended  she 
get £150 in addition to the amount already offered.
Our investigator also recommended that this complaint should be upheld  as it was clear that 
in October 2018  Mrs C was actively looking to re-mortgage or sell her property , whichever 
she was able to do first, and had kept  Accord up to date with the progress. Her view was 
that Accord shouldnt  have commenced legal  proceedings.  So she said that Accord  should 
refund the litigation fees and charges and pay Mrs C interest  on those costs. 
Accord agreed with the redress  in respect  of the change of address. But it disagreed that it 
should refund the litigation costs. It said that it didnt instruct solicitors until 11 February  2019 
which gave Mrs C another four months  to arrange  the re-mortgage. Accord also said that the 
District Judge wouldnt  have granted an order for possession if Accord wasnt  entitled to it.
Ref: DRN24150272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by Accord that it failed to record properly Mrs Cs change of address and our 
investigators recommendation in that respect has been accepted  by both parties  and I agree 
that this compensation seems fair.
The other issue is whether Accord dealt fairly  with Mrs C when the term of her mortgage 
came to an end. Mrs Cs term came to an end in January 2018.  Our view is that a lender 
should deal fairly with a consumer when an interest only mortgage has come  to an end, and 
where a repayment  vehicle  isnt in place. We would have expected  Accord to contact Mrs C 
before the term ended to make her aware of that and how she was going  to pay off the 
mortgage. Because Accord didnt have the correct address that didnt happen.
Mrs C complains that Accord  refused  her an extension and an agreement  to let and pursued  
an aggressive strategy to recover  its money. Mrs C wanted to keep the property on interest 
only for another five years because she hoped  that if house prices went  up that she would 
release more equity  when  she sold it. Her immediate problem at looking for an extension  
was that she wasnt  using it as a residential property which  was the term of her mortgage. 
So, Accord  said that if she applied  to change this to a letting it would look at a buy to let.  I 
can see that a problem with any extension request was that Mrs Cs mortgage was 
residential but she was using  it as a buy to let. This seems to have  been  talked about in 
May, there was an application appointment in August and, after it went to an underwriter Mrs 
C seems to have been told of the final refusal  on 4 October 2018.  At this point I believe that 
Accord had acted fairly. Because the mortgage was residential it couldnt extend the 
mortgage on the same terms. It looked at an alternative mortgage which on the figures 
presented to it was unaffordable and not in Mrs Cs best interests.
Mrs C next went back  to a broker whom she had been working  with. On 17 October  she told 
Accord that she had an appointment with her broker to look for an alternative mortgage and 
if that wasnt possible she would  put the property on the market.  The next day the broker  
made contact with Accord,  mentioned  the possible new lender and that they were looking for 
a solicitor as the package  didnt have free legals. On 26 October Mrs C contacted  Accord  
and on 29 October her broker returned  from holidays and updated  Accord. Accord  rang the 
broker on 30 October for an update and he sent an Agreement  in Principle (AIP) which  
seems to have been received on 5 November.
Despite this contact  with Mrs C and her broker, Accord decided  to proceed with legal action. 
The decision  seems to have been  made on 1 November subject to the agreement of another  
person who approved it on 16 November when a final demand was issued.  The AIP that the 
broker sent didnt  have any effect  on Accords processes.  I would have thought that it should  
have sparked an engagement with the broker - whom Mrs C had given Accord  authority to 
speak to - to examine his views of the prospects of success of the application and the time 
period involved.  
On receipt of the final demand Mrs C rang on 17 November to find out what she would need 
to send to allow her some time to get the mortgage through.  Accord  replied on 22 November 
Ref: DRN24150273to say that the only evidence it would accept to consider  a hold on legal action would be a 
mortgage offer. Mrs C didnt have  a mortgage offer at that stage but was clearly  looking for 
one. In these circumstances my view is that Accord should have informed itself by talking to 
Mrs Cs broker.  It seems to me that having agreed to take legal action it was no longer 
engaging with Mrs C and that is not what we would expect. 
This is followed  by a further  letter  of 23 November which begins we have been trying  to 
contact you during the last few months  to discuss repayment of the outstanding balance. 
The clear  implication of this is that Mrs C hasnt  been engaging with Accord.  Mrs C took 
exception to that and I understand  why.
On the one hand Mrs C was in breach of her agreement to pay back the capital due on this 
mortgage in January 2018. But Accord had duties to Mrs C. It seems to me that if Mrs C was 
actively trying to re-mortgage or sell her house  that Accord  should give her a reasonable 
period to do so. But it can only judge what is reasonable by engaging with Mrs C or her 
broker. Simply  demanding the mortgage  offer and in default  issuing legal proceedings isnt in 
my view what we would expect in these circumstances. By engaging with the broker,  Accord  
could have ascertained whether the process was genuine - as it appears to be - and how 
long it was likely to take. 
I appreciate that by the time Accord issued its proceedings a year had elapsed since  the 
term ended  but Mrs C had clearly been  active throughout that time and wasnt  simply 
ignoring the issue. Legal proceedings for possession of property should be a last resort and I 
believe that Accord issued them prematurely  in this case. I note that just before it issued 
legal proceedings Mrs C updated  Accord on her re-mortgage and gave it the website where 
her property was for advertised for sale but this didnt spur Accord to look for further  
information or engage with Mrs C or her broker.
My view is that Accord failed to properly engage with Mrs C and issued legal proceedings to 
recover possession of the property prematurely and unfairly. This was part of a pattern  of 
Accord failing to engage with Mrs C from October onwards. If it had done so, it could have 
tracked whether  Mrs Cs attempts to re-mortgage or sell were  genuine  and progressing  or 
not. Accord instead chose simply  to  hold over Mrs C the threat of legal proceedings and 
then to issue them which I consider unfair.
Accord brought to our attention the fact that the court  made an order  for possession.  But I 
am looking at a different issue than the court namely  whether  Accord  treated Mrs C fairly 
and not whether Accord was legally entitled to possession  of the property. As I say above I 
dont believe  that Accord did act fairly. In those circumstances I intend  to uphold this 
complaint. As redress, Accord  should  refund the legal costs  and fees which Mrs C incurred 
because of the litigation. For the sake of clarity, although its implied in our investigators 
view, this should include the costs  she expended  on defending  the case. Mrs C has supplied  
me the relevant invoice. This was for £500 plus vat which  appears  reasonable.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accord Mortgages Limited to refund to 
Mrs C the costs and charges associated with the legal proceedings it issued against Mrs C. 
It should also pay Mrs Cs costs of defending  those  proceedings.  The money refunded and 
the costs paid should carry  interest at 8% per annum from the date Mrs C paid them, until 
Ref: DRN24150274the date of settlement. Accord should also pay Mrs C £150  in addition  to the amount it 
offered to pay in its letter of 7 January 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2415027