K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has paid less than he feels  is fair with his 
motor insurance claim.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with a third party vehicle resulting in damage  to his car. He 
made a claim with UKI for the cost of the repairs and provided  a quote from a manufacturer 
approved local garage  for these works.
The quote  Mr S provided said the cost of the work  to fix his car would be nearly £3,000.00. 
UKI sent its engineer to assess  the damage  and it felt the costs  to fix the damage caused by 
the accident would be £1,526.00 and it wouldnt agree to authorise any additional  costs  as 
the work  isnt needed. 
Mr S asked for the cash in lieu for the repairs and UKI paid this to him.  
Mr S doesnt  think the amount hes been paid is fair, and feels he is at risk of being left out of 
pocket with the cost of the repairs if these are higher  when he sends his car in for repair.
Our investigator looked at Mr S complaint and said she felt what UKI had offered was fair. 
She explained the terms of the policy set out that UKI can repair the damage or pay for the 
cost of the repairs. 
In this case UKIs engineer spoke with the garage  who provided the original quote for the 
work to Mr S car. It negotiated what work  it felt was needed as a result of the claim. Our 
investigator said UKI set out in the policy document that it is entitled to do this and because  
of this, it hadnt acted  unfairly when doing  so. 
UKI said it paid the cash in lieu of the work as this is how Mr S asked for the claim to be 
paid. And it did this based on what  it believed the work to cost.  It said it wouldnt agree to 
pay any more on the claim  as it was settled  with it when  it paid the cash. It said it could have 
the repair completed and pay for this if Mr S returned the cash he received in lieu. But it 
wouldnt arrange to pay any more for the claim now as it has settled the claim in cash  as 
asked for by Mr S and he is free to use whichever garage he wishes.
Mr S doesnt  agree  with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed  to me 
for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr S complaint 
 for much the same  reasons as our investigator. I know  this will be disappointing  for Mr S, 
but Ill explain why.
Mr S has complained that UKI isnt matching  the original repair  quote  he received for the 
damage to his car. And that UKI negotiated  with the garage who provided this quote  
following its engineers  inspection of his car.
Ref: DRN25312592Mr S policy explains that UKI can either repair the damage to his car itself or pay for the cost 
of the repair  work. And it says Mr S can choose  to use his own repairer to do this. UKI hasnt 
said it isnt able to repair Mr S car and Mr S asked  that he choose  the garage  he wants  and 
to pay them  directly  after asking for the cash in lieu of the payment to be sent to him.
UKI is, as explained by our investigator, entitled to takeover and negotiate a claim which is 
being made. It follows that where UKI is liable to pay the cost of the repair works that it 
wants to make sure the cost of these is in line with what it expects based on the damage. 
The original  quote  provided by Mr S was more than UKI expected the repair works to cost 
and this included  labour  rates at a higher rate per hour than it would normally  pay. It 
negotiated with the garage what it felt was needed  to repair  the car to its pre accident state 
and agreed this with the garage. 
As Mr S wanted cash in lieu of the repair works being completed.  UKI paid this based on 
what it believed the cost of the damage  would be, and what  it would be prepared to pay for 
this to be put right. 
I think UKI has acted fairly when  applying the terms of its policy  and the amount it has 
offered Mr S for the repair works on his car. It offered to repair  the car for Mr S and this was 
declined. Instead  he asked to use a garage  of his choice to compete the works.  The price for 
the repair works needed was agreed between UKI and the garage and this amount has been 
paid to Mr S.
Based on everything, I cant see that UKI has acted unfairly with how it has handled Mr S 
claim. And I wont be asking it do anymore  because of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2531259