K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs G complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (BOS), mis-sold Mr B and the late 
Mrs W a mortgage payment protection insurance,  (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr B and Mrs W took out the policy in 1997  during a meeting at the same time as taking out 
a mortgage. Although the mortgage was in their joint names the MPPI only covered Mr B.
The monthly premiums were about £15.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that BOS had done  anything wrong. As Mr B disagreed  the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this approach in Mr B and Mrs Gs case.
Because the sale took place so long ago BOS no longer  has copies of the paperwork signed 
by Mr B and Mrs W. Nor has either of the parties  given us much detail about the sale. So Ive 
had to base my decision on the information  that I do have  and what we know  generally about 
the sale of these types of policy.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I set out my reasons below.
Mr B says that he didnt  know that the MPPI had been included with his mortgage. Because 
it took place face-to-face so many years ago I can understand why neither party  has been 
able to give me more  detail of what happened  during the meeting. But I dont think that its 
fair and reasonable for me to rely solely on Mr Bs recollection. And without any more  
persuasive evidence  I dont consider that I have  enough information to conclude that BOS 
didnt make it clear to Mr B that the policy was optional.
BOS recommended Mr B and Mrs W to take out the policy. This means it ought to have 
taken reasonable  steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps 
BOS took, if any, but I find that the MPPI was suitable in any event. I say this because,  
knowing what I do about Mr B and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, and the terms and 
conditions of the policy:
Mr B was eligible  for the policy;
Mr B wasnt caught by any of the MPPIs main restrictions  and limitations  such as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition or who was self-employed;
Ref: DRN21352222Mr B has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and that he had 
nothing else to help him make  his and Mrs Ws mortgage repayments  had he been off 
work. However, following a successful  claim,  the policy, would have  paid out £300 a 
month had Mr B not been  working because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
These payments  would  have  been made for up to 12 months and would have  been  paid 
in addition to anything he got from his employment   leaving the latter  available  to help 
with other expenses while Mr B wasnt working . So I think that the MPPI could have 
been of use to Mr B and Mrs W;
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to other policies available  in the market  
at the time and it had a reasonable benefit;
I havent seen  anything to suggest that it was unreasonable for the MPPI to be in Mr Bs 
sole name;
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr B and Mrs W couldnt afford the insurance. In any 
event, as it was paid for monthly,  they could have cancelled the policy at any time had 
they later felt that it was unaffordable or that they no longer required it;
Mr B says that BOS  didnt  explain everything  about  the policy. Its likely that Halifax didnt 
give Mr B and Mrs W all the information  about the MPPI that it ought  to have so that they 
could make a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. But in view of what  Ive 
concluded above I dont think that clearer information would have stopped  them buying it. I 
reach this conclusion particularly taking into account the possible serious consequences that 
could have arisen had Mr B and Mrs W been  unable to keep up their mortgage repayments,  
which were secured on their home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr B and the estate of Mrs W have lost out because of anything 
BOS may have done wrong, or omitted  to do, during the sale. So theres nothing I require it 
to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive considered everything that Mr B has told us, including that he was a 
member of a trade union. He says this meant  that his job was secure. But circumstances 
change and Mr B couldnt  be certain  that his employment situation wouldnt change  over the 
proposed 25-year term of his mortgage.  So this and Mr Bs other comments  dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2135222