K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the way Crowdcube  Capital Limited presented an investment
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he
invested in was inaccurate and Crowdcube  should  have  checked this.
Background
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a
company and the details of the investment  in these pitches on the platform before deciding
whether to invest
Mr P made an investment in a company (Company A) via Crowdcubes crowdfunding
platform in July 2018. Mr P was allocated shares in August 2018  following a successful
fundraising round. But shortly afterwards Mr P lost all the money hed invested as 
Company A went into administration.
Mr P complained to Crowdcube saying the information included in Company As pitch  was
misleading. He said the pitch  mentioned Company A had completed a merger which
attracted investment.  But after Company  A went into administration, its chief
executive officer (CEO)  confirmed the merger  hadnt completed at the time of the pitch  and
so it never  received these funds. Mr P said Crowdcube didnt do enough to check
whether the merger had in fact completed.
Mr P also raised some concerns about  the emails hed received after the fundraising round
had closed. He said the first of these confirmed his investment would proceed and be legally
binding unless he contacted Crowdcube  before  the deadline expired. However, once it had
expired, he received another email explaining the valuation of Company A had more than
halved. Mr P said hed agreed  to what was said in the first email  and this had become legally 
binding before the second email was sent. He said Crowdcube should have cancelled  his 
investment due to this material change.
Crowdcube didnt  agree that the pitch was inaccurate or misleading. It said any claims made
on Company As pitch were subject to its standard due diligence checks and were verified 
with evidence before being approved. It also explained the second email gave Mr P the 
opportunity to withdraw from his investment but as he didnt decide to do this his investment 
went ahead.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Crowdcube
didnt give advice to Mr P, so it was ultimately his decision  to invest  in Company A and that
this was all explained  in Crowdcubes  Investor Terms.
Our investigator explained that Crowdcube had provided evidence  of its due diligence of
Company A, which included Companies  House records and media  articles  suggesting the
merger had completed. She felt Crowdcube had carried  out sufficient due diligence  to satisfy
itself that the information included in the pitch about  the merger and the investment it 
attracted wasnt false or misleading.
Ref: DRN23431572Our investigator also considered the emails  Crowdcube sent Mr P. She said Mr P was
provided with an updated  legal review  document which outlined  the reasons for the revised
valuation of Company  A. She noted the email gave Mr P an opportunity to cancel the 
investment, but as he didn't take any action, she didnt think Crowdcube had done anything  
wrong by allowing his investment to proceed.
Mr P didnt agree as he still believed the claims in pitch  to be materially incorrect and not in 
line with the CEO of Company As comments about the merger and the investment it 
attracted. Mr P also disagreed that Companies House confirmed the merger  had completed 
and also felt that Crowdcube  had unfairly  changed the terms of the investment.
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. I understand this will come as a
disappointment to Mr P, but Ill explain my reasons why.
I think there are two potential questions  that I need  to consider in order to fairly  and
reasonably determine Mr Ps complaints.
Was it reasonable for Crowdcube to have concluded from its due diligence  that the 
merger had completed, and that Company A had received the investment this 
attracted?
Was it fair for Crowdcube to allow Mr Ps investment  to proceed despite the change 
in Company As valuation?
Before Im able to answer these questions, Ive considered Crowdcubes role and 
relationship it has with investors, as well the regulatory and legal framework involved.
Crowdcubes role and relationship with its investors
I can only consider the actions of Crowdcube  and in doing so its important to understand the
role and relationship  it has with Mr P as an investor.
Crowdcubes Investor Terms sets out the terms and conditions forming the basis  of this
relationship. These explain:
8.2. The Investor  acknowledges  that Crowdcube  approves each Pitch  as a financial
promotion but does not provide  advice or any form of recommendation regarding the
suitability or quality of the Investment
Ref: DRN234315738.3. The Investor acknowledges and accepts  that the Website includes a forum which is
an integral part of an Investees  Pitch which is intended as a service to Investees to put them
in contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcubes investigation of the Investees and the
content of their Pitches is limited, and accordingly Crowdcube makes  no warranty  or
representation and assumes no liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their
Pitches. The Investor must make his/her own assessment of the viability,  accuracy and
prospects of the Investees, their Pitches,  and any relevant investment propositions and
should consult  his/her  professional advisers should  he/she require any assistance in making
such an assessment or should the Investor require any services  whatsoever in connection
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the disclaimer, risk
warning and regulatory notice on each Pitch.
Its clear from the Investor Terms that Crowdcube  provides potential investors with different
investment opportunities by way of pitches, but importantly, it gives no advice or 
recommendations to its investors. Ultimately, the decision to invest is made at the investors
own risk and Crowdcube encourages them to do their own research. This is also explained
in Crowdcubes  due diligence charter:
Crowdcube does not endorse any of the businesses raising finance on the platform, nor do
we provide investment advice of any description,  so before deciding to invest we strongly
encourage all Crowdcube members to undertake their own research  and if there is
uncertainty, to receive independent advice before investing.
Crowdcube also has risk warnings on its platform to ensure  investors are made aware of the
risks involved in investing via crowdfunding. The following  risk warning was provided on
Crowdcubes platform at the time Mr P invested in Company A:
Investing in start-ups and early stage businesses  involves  risks,  including illiquidity, lack of
dividends, loss of investment  and dilution,  and it should be done only as part of a diversified
portfolio..
This also included  a link to read Crowdcubes full risk warning which provided more detail of
the risks involved.
the regulatory and legal  framework
While Ive considered  the Investor Terms which say Crowdcubes investigation  is limited  and
that it doesnt endorse any pitches, Ive also taken into account the wider obligations on
Crowdcube.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). The relevant rules  and regulations  
FCA regulated firms  are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules  and 
guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. 
The most relevant  principles here are PRIN  2.1.1R (2) which  says:
A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care and diligence.
Ref: DRN23431574And PRIN 2.1.1R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are COBS  2.1.1R (1)
which says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of
its client.
And COBS  4.2.1R (1) which says:
A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear  and not
misleading.
Ive also considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my decision.
was it reasonable  for Crowdcube to have concluded from its due diligence  that the merger
had completed,  and that Company A had received the investment this attracted?
The main  point of contention regarding the pitch is the merger.  The pitch  stated that:
The merger deal, completed in May 2018,  attracted an additional £6m from existing
shareholders plus £9m in media  for equity across  Sky and Channel  5, and a multi-million
pound media spend  with Channel 4 in return for a stake in the combined business.
Mr P believes that the merger hadnt completed before Crowdcube promoted  the investment
and it either  knew or ought to have known  this. I understand that part of this belief stems
from the comments made by the former CEO  of Company A. But Crowdcube said it believed
the merger had completed.
As Ive highlighted above, there  was an obligation on Crowdcube to conduct  its business
with due skill, care and diligence, as well as to ensure that a communication or a financial
promotion is fair, clear  and not misleading . While  Ive considered that Crowdcube said it will
do a light touch check, Ive borne in mind  that the FCA said the following in its July 2018
consultation paper on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding
platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from 
November 2019  which explained that firms  should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion before
approving its content for communication by an unauthorised  person.  The extent and
substance of the analysis  and diligence needed  to be able confirm that a promotion is fair,
clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case  and will depend on the form and content
of the promotion.
Ref: DRN23431575When assessing whether  a promotion  is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to
consider (among other things):
The authenticity  of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr P had invested  prior to the publication of the consultation  paper  and
guidance, I still feel both are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and
application of existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the time.  
As such,  Crowdcubes  due diligence needed  to be sufficient enough to satisfy  itself that the
claims made  in Company  As pitch were  authentic.
As part of its due diligence, Crowdcube  said it checked Companies  House records  which
confirmed the merger had completed prior to promoting the investment. It also said there
were several news articles available at that time which cited  the completed  merger. 
Crowdcube explains in its due diligence charter that it, relies on third-party tools to conduct
some due diligence, so I think  it was fair and reasonable for Crowdcube to use these
sources to confirm the merger had completed.
Turning to Company  As financial information included in the pitch. A careful distinction
needs to be made between  the overall  financial  position of Company A and the statements
made in the pitch  which relate to funding. Crowdcube explains in its due diligence charter
that it doesnt review  the ongoing funding requirements of companies that raise investment
through the platform:
The following information,  unless specifically mentioned in the pitch, is not always  reviewed
as part of our standard due diligence, so investors  should assume  that the following have not
been checked:
cash position and cash burn of the company;
The pitch  didnt include any information about Company As cash position or cash burn and
as such, Im not persuaded  Crowdcube was under  any obligation to ensure Company A was
profitable. So if the absence of this information caused Mr P any concerns, I would have
expected him to have conducted his own enquiries before proceeding with the investment. 
Crowdcube did make it clear in its risk warnings that investing in start-ups and early  stage
businesses involves risks, and part of that risk is that businesses  involved are often those
which are unable to get bank  or traditional  forms of funding and so are likely to be in a
precarious financial position  on the whole.
The pitch  did, however,  mention  existing investments in advertising, as well other sources  of
funding. So Crowdcube needed to ensure this information was fair, clear and not misleading.
Crowdcube explained that the £9 million in equity  for media and the additional multi-million
pound media spend  was in relation to potential advertising Company A would benefit  from. 
But as it went into administration soon  after the fundraising round closed it was unable  to 
use this.
Ref: DRN23431576Crowdcube also provided evidence showing Company A had benefitted  from £5.5 million  of
investment prior to the promotion. This was in the form of convertible loan notes and
debentures from existing  shareholders, as well as a £500,000 loan facility from Company As
bank. Whilst I appreciate the pitch didnt make this distinction, on balance, I dont think  it
would have affected Mr Ps decision to invest. I say this as it represented only a small
amount of the overall finances and ultimately, this money was available to the company
albeit by means of a loan facility from a bank  rather than through shareholder investment.
Its also important to point  out this information was included in the legal review document
Crowdcube emailed to Mr P in July 2018.  Therefore, if he had concerns about this, I would
have expected him to have raised  this with Crowdcube before investing.
So overall, Im satisfied that, based on the evidence available to Crowdcube  at the time, it
was reasonable  for it to have concluded  that the merger had completed, and that Company
A had received the investment this attracted. As such, Im satisfied Crowdcube
met its regulatory requirements  when promoting the investment opportunity  and that it
ensured the content of the pitch was clear, fair and not misleading.
was it fair for Crowdcube to allow Mr Ps investment  to proceed despite  the change  in
Company As valuation?
Crowdcube sent Mr P an email in July 2018  confirming  the fundraising round had closed and
giving him an opportunity  to review his investment before  proceeding. The email asked Mr P
to review several documents, including Company As articles of association  and a legal
review document.  It gave  Mr P a deadline  of 2 August  2018  for him to let Crowdcube know if
he didnt want to proceed with his investment and failure to do so would result in it become
legally binding.
I understand Mr P didnt  contact Crowdcube and so once the deadline  passed,  he believed
his investment had proceeded  and had become legally binding.  However, Crowdcube then
sent Mr P another email  on 10 August 2018.  This email explained that since the fundraising
round had closed,  Company As valuation had reduced from £104,000,000 to £51,800,000
and as a result Mr P would receive  twice as many shares. The email also included an
updated legal review document to reflect these changes. A new deadline  of 14 August 2018
was given and as Mr P didnt contact Crowdcube  his investment proceeded after this date.
I also understand Mr P feels strongly  that Crowdcube unfairly allowed the investment to
proceed when  there had been such a material change in facts.  And that the first email  was
legally binding and could  not be altered. However, Crowdcubes Investor Terms provide
clarity on these points.
The Investor Terms explain that the completion of the investment is subject to completion
conditions:
5.3. If a Pitch is successful, the Investee  will instruct  Crowdcube to circulate a copy  of the
Investees proposed  Articles of Association, bond  instrument or fund documentation  to each
Investor by email, and to request  that each Investor inform Crowdcube  by email within the
time period specified in the email if they no longer  wish to proceed with the Investment. If
Crowdcube receives no response  from the Investor within the specified  time period, the
Investor will be deemed to have confirmed his/her order  and the Investee will accept his/her
order and such order will become a legally binding contract to invest between the Investee
and the Investor  upon expiry of the time period  set out in the email,  with completion of the
Ref: DRN23431577investment conditional upon the Investee receiving payment from the Investor  and subject to
the completion conditions set out in clause 5.5 below. The Investor agrees that the contract
to invest between the Investee  and Investor formed in accordance  with this clause shall
incorporate any warranties given  in the legal review document  (the "Legal Review") attached
to the email sent by Crowdcube to each Investor  pursuant to this clause (the "Warranties"),
subject to the terms and limitations of such Warranties as set out in the Legal Review.
These completion conditions included:
5.5.2 the Warranties being true and there  being  no actual or contemplated material change
to the Investee  or the investment round, either before or after the expiry of the email set out
in clause 5.3 above and prior to the issue of shares to Investors (whether change is material
to be determined by Crowdcube in its sole discretion);
The Investor Terms go on to explain the action Crowdcube can take when  a condition isnt 
met:
5.6 Crowdcube (and not the Investee or Investor) has absolute discretion to determine
whether the conditions set out in clause 5.5 above  are satisfied at any time during the
completions process prior to the issue of shares to Investor by Investee. If Crowdcube
determines a condition is not satisfied,  Crowdcube may in its absolute  discretion:
5.6.1 recirculate the email  to Investors as set out in clause  5.3 above,  to include, as required
by Crowdcube, the Articles of Association  of the Investee alongside  a disclosure statement
detailing the failed condition. This email shall also request that each Investor  inform
Crowdcube by email within the time specified  in the email if they no longer wish to proceed
with the Investment.  If Crowdcube receives no response from the Investor  within the stated
time period, the Investor will be deemed to have confirmed his order
The original  legal review  document emailed to Mr P in July 2018 explained under the
warranties section that the pre-money valuation used for calculating the share price would
be £103,000,000 (rather than £104,000,000 shown  on the pitch). Crowdcube  was then
informed by Company  A that the valuation had been  reduced by over half. I consider this to
be a material change  and the Investor Terms make it clear  that any material change  should
be disclosed  to investors before the investment proceeds  regardless of whether the
previous deadline has expired. So, by making Mr P aware of this and providing a further
deadline to proceed, I think Crowdcube  acted  fairly  and in-line with its Investor Terms.
Its also important to note that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper
on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
We expect platforms to complete any necessary due diligence  before they market
investments to investors. In addition, the platform may become aware of new information
that materially affects the borrowers credit risk after it has finalised its due diligence  process,
but before  money has been  irrevocably  committed by investors. In this case  and under the
Principles of Businesses (PRIN), and the clients best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R), we
expect platforms to give investors the option not to proceed with the investment, as the
conditions they based their investment  decision on have changed.
Ref: DRN23431578Whilst I appreciate Mr P says hed agreed to what  was said in the first email and this had 
become legally binding before the second  email was sent, Im satisfied he had a 
responsibility to read and check  any correspondence  he received regarding  his investment. 
The second  email gave Mr P an opportunity to not proceed with the investment. However, 
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show Mr P raised  any concerns with Crowdcube  
about the valuation before the second  deadline  had expired or at any time prior to 
Company A going into administration.
On that basis, Im satisfied it was fair for Crowdcube  to allow  Mr Ps investment to proceed
despite the change in Company As valuation.
conclusions
Having carefully considered the key questions  set out on page  two of this decision, I find 
that:
It was reasonable  for Crowdcube to have concluded from its due diligence  that the 
merger had completed, and that Company A had received the investment this 
attracted. Crowdcube made it clear in its Investor Terms  that it would rely on third 
party tools as part of its due diligence and the evidence available  to it at the time 
authenticated the claims made  in the pitch.
It was fair for Crowdcube to allow Mr Ps investment to proceed despite  the change  in 
Company As valuation,  as it duly notified him of the material change and gave him 
an opportunity to cancel  if he was unhappy. Mr P failed to notify Crowdcube that he 
didnt want the investment  to proceed and so I dont find Crowdcube  at fault.
So I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint  about the way in which Crowdcube presented the
investment opportunity.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Ben Waites
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2343157