K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a fixed sum loan agreement that he used to pay for a car was mis-sold  
to him by Hartwell finance Limited  and that his learning difficulties werent taken into 
account.
background
Mr M had a car that had been supplied  to him under  a finance agreement. The outstanding 
finance was £9,550.04 and the car was valued at £4,500. He went  to a Hartwell dealer in 
December 2016  because he wanted  to part-exchange that car for another used car. He 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a credit provider under which the finance for 
his first car was settled and which paid for the replacement car. More  than a year later Mr M 
complained to Hartwell  that that he has learning difficulties and hadnt understood what had 
taken place. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
agreement was clearly  signed and he couldnt agree that it wouldnt have been properly 
explained to Mr M. And he thought that it would be unfair to say that Hartwell shouldve 
known about his learning difficulties.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that hes spoken to the credit provider and hes now paying £16,000 and that Hartwell  says 
that it cant do anything  for him. Hes provided a copy of his account statement with the 
credit provider and he says that the credits to his account are signs  of fraud by Hartwell.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M approached a Hartwell dealer in December 2016 because he wanted to part-exchange  
his car for another used car. There  was outstanding  finance at that time on his car of 
£9,550.04 and his car was worth £4,500  so he owed £5,050.04. The price of the used car 
that he wanted to buy was £8,495 so Hartwell  added the £5,050.04 to that. Mr M chose other  
options which increased the total price to £13,740 and an advance  payment of £495 was 
applied. Hartwell then arranged a loan with the credit provider for £13,245 which  was to be 
repaid by 60 monthly payments of £302.44.
Mr M signed the vehicle  invoice  which  set out the detailed financial arrangements.  
Immediately above  his signature it says:
This document contains the terms of a contract. Sign it only if you want to be legally 
bound by them. Attention is drawn  to the terms and conditions and in particular to 
clauses which relate to acceptance  of any Part Exchange Vehicle.
He also signed  the loan agreement with the credit  provider  which  set out the key terms of the 
loan that was being made to him. Immediately above his signature it says:
This is a credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if 
you want to be legally  bound by its terms.
Ref: DRN24286602Mr M then used  the car for more  than a year before  he complained  to Hartwell. He said that 
he hadnt understood what  had taken place and that his learning difficulties hadnt been  
taken into account.
I sympathise with Mr M for his difficulties but Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M told 
Hartwell that he has learning  difficulties  or that it wouldve been reasonable to expect it to 
have been aware  of his learning difficulties  as a result of its dealings  with him.
I consider that the invoice and agreement   both of which were signed by Mr M  contained  
the required information about  the sale of the car and the loan agreement. So I consider that 
it was reasonable  for Hartwell to consider  that Mr M was aware of what  had been  agreed.  
And he made the agreed payments for more than a year before he complained  to Hartwell.
Mr M has provided a copy of his account statement with the credit  provider  and he says that 
credits to his account are signs of fraud by Hartwell. But the loan was made to him by the 
credit provider and its the credit  provider to which he owes money. Hes stopped  making the 
required payments  under  the loan which has increased the outstanding balance of his 
account. But Im not persuaded  that theres any evidence to show  that Hartwell  has acted 
incorrectly in connection with the payments to his account - or that its acted  fraudulently in 
any way.
If Mr M has concerns about  the way that his account  has been  handled,  he can complain to 
the credit  provider. And if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be able to make a 
complaint to this service  about the credit provider. If Mr M isnt able to make  the required  
payments to the credit provider, I suggest  that he contacts the credit  provider to see what  
options are available to him. He may be able to agree a reduced  repayment arrangement  
with it. And the credit  provider is required to respond  to any financial difficulties  that hes 
experiencing positively and sympathetically.
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show Hartwell has acted incorrectly in 
these circumstances  or that the loan agreement  was mis-sold to Mr M. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Hartwell to take any action in response to 
Mr Ms complaint. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to write-
off the outstanding amount of his loan or to remove any information from his credit file  as 
hes asked it to do. Mr M has the car and I consider  that its fair and reasonable that he 
should pay for it. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2428660