K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005. Mr L 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. The application 
form Mr L signed showed he had a choice.  And although the cross  in the box for PPI 
is electronically populated I think this happened  as a result  of a conversation he had 
with a BoS adviser.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover  Mr L was entitled to some  sick pay but 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer  than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. Similarly, Mr L wouldve been entitled to a small amount of 
redundancy pay but the policy wouldve helped cover his repayments for up to a year 
at a time,  leaving any redundancy pay for other  uninsured  expenses. Mr L had limited 
other means to pay his credit  card if he couldnt work. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  I 
also havent seen  anything to suggest  it was unaffordable for Mr L. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what he has said about BoS staff 
insinuating the PPI was mandatory and that he felt he didnt  have a choice about it, but these  
points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
L paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr L back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN21692402my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2169240