K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint against Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) is about what  happened 
when he was unable  to access his account.
 
background
Mr D tried to log on to his Halifax share  dealing  account on Saturday 16 February. He was 
unable to do so and a service unavailable message was displayed.  Mr D tried calling 
Halifax but the share dealing office was closed. He called a general Halifax  bank  number but 
they were unable to help.   
When Mr D complained, Halifax  told him their website had been unavailable from 2pm on 
16 February because  of planned maintenance. They  said theyd notified customers  on the 
website from the previous  day. Halifax also said their share dealing phone  service would 
have been closed for the weekend, and the general bank helpline would  have been  unable 
to help Mr D. 
Mr D was unhappy with Halifaxs  response so he brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service. He complains that Halifax should have sent him an email  to warn him the website 
would be unavailable.  And when he tried to log on, the message given should have referred 
to maintenance  rather than just saying the site was unavailable.
Mr D says the service unavailable  message made  him worry that his account might have 
been hacked. He spent  two hours  trying  to find out why the website was unavailable. And he 
lost out financially because he needed to know  the balance of his account so he could make 
other investment decisions.
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had done  anything wrong, so didnt think it was fair to 
ask them  to pay compensation to Mr D.
Mr D accepts what our investigator said about  not awarding compensation for financial  loss, 
as he has no concrete evidence he missed  out on making other investments. But he thinks 
Halifax should compensate him for the stress caused, and has asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators findings and wont be asking Halifax to do anything further.
Its not uncommon for websites of this kind to be unavailable for a time for maintenance or 
some other reason. And the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account say that Halifax  may 
suspend their online service where they consider it necessary  including for maintenance or 
technical problems.  
The terms of the account dont say what Halifax will do to let customers know  when the 
website is unavailable.  Of course, there might be occasions when the online service is 
suspended at very short notice. But in this case the maintenance  was planned and Mr D 
thinks Halifax should have  done  more to warn him the website would be unavailable. 
Ref: DRN21949982I can understand why Mr D is unhappy. He says he didnt access  the website the previous 
day when Halifax gave  notice about the maintenance. And the message displayed  on the 
day simply said the service was unavailable.
I appreciate that Mr D would have  preferred  to receive an email  about the maintenance. 
But we cant  tell Halifax what level of service they should provide to their customers. In this 
case, Halifax took some steps to notify customers through the messages given on the 
website. And although  they could have done more, I dont  think  I can say Halifax treated 
Mr D unfairly or acted unreasonably.  
Mr D has said he was worried his account  had been hacked. He spent two hours  trying  to 
find out what was happening and couldnt  get hold of anyone at Halifax who could help. 
Ive thought about what hes said and understand he feels  strongly  about  this. But the 
message on the website  said the service was unavailable. That was accurate, and I dont 
think I can hold Halifax responsible for Mr D worrying  his personal account had been 
hacked. 
I can understand that it must have been  very frustrating  for Mr D not to be able to access his 
account. But I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Halifax to do anything more.  
So I wont  be upholding Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint 
against Halifax Share  Dealing  Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2194998