K821x#15complaint
Miss H and Ms W say TSB Bank  plcs IT issues had an impact  on them.
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Miss H and Ms W say this meant 
they didnt have access to their historical  statements. This was important to them as they 
were being  chased for an invoice payment they believed had already been paid. The 
statements would show if theyd paid it or not. 
Miss H is the party who dealt with TSB while trying to get copies of the joint account 
statements, so Ill mainly  be referring to her throughout this decision. Miss H telephoned TSB 
on 21 November 2018 when she discovered the online banking was only showing the last 
three months of joint account statements. She spent  three hours on the telephone and was 
eventually told the statements  had been ordered and would be available from a local branch 
the following  day around lunch time. She was told to wait for a telephone  call confirming this 
before going to the branch. Because of the delay, she was offered £75 compensation and 
£25 for any financial  loss incurred, which she accepted. 
Miss H didnt receive a telephone call the following day and made the decision to go to the 
branch anyway. After  waiting an hour for a member of staff to come  back  from their lunch  
break,   Miss H was told the statements werent available. The branch called customer 
services and after failed  attempts to get through, plus difficulties explaining  the situation to 
the customer service representative,  TSB finally arranged for the statements to be ordered  
again. Miss H spent around three  hours in the branch that day. 
Miss H was unable to collect the statements  until around 4pm the following day due to a 
migraine. Shes said the migraine  was caused  by the stress of the situation and this also 
meant she had to cancel  a visit to the theatre that evening. It was so severe  that she was 
physically sick whilst  travelling to get the statements.  
Miss H and Ms W have requested £2,500 compensation in recognition  of the distress  and 
inconvenience the issue has caused.  Miss H has also requested a refund of her lost income 
due to taking time off work to visit the branch and because she was sick. Our adjudicator 
looked into the complaint and explained  our recommendations for compensation are 
significantly more modest than what Miss H and Ms W had requested.  Having fully reviewed 
the complaint  the adjudicator recommended  a total of £150  compensation  for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused plus £25 for financial loss. Meaning  TSB would have to pay an 
additional £75 to what they already paid in November  2018. 
Miss H and Ms W disagreed  with this and still felt £2,500 was an appropriate amount of 
compensation, plus financial losses such as Miss Hs wages and a missed visit to the 
theatre. As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been  passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27455982Having done so, I agree with the previous  recommendation made  by our adjudicator of £150 
compensation, plus £25 for financial loss. I know this will come as a disappointment to    
Miss H and Ms W so Id like to explain my reasoning. 
I acknowledge that TSB didnt provide  the expected level of service when Miss H and Ms W 
needed to see their historical  statements.  Due to the issues  TSB faced when they migrated  
their systems in April 2018,  it appears  Miss H and Ms Ws statements werent  also migrated 
onto the new system.  Due to a third party chasing  them for a payment they believed theyd 
already paid, it was relatively urgent that they had access to these statements. 
Miss H spent some time on the phone trying  get the statements ordered which I can 
appreciate was frustrating. And she was offered £75 compensation in recognition  of this, 
plus £25 for any financial  losses  incurred, which she accepted  at the time.   And I think this 
was a fair amount in the circumstances. 
Miss H was advised to wait until she received  a telephone call the following day to let her 
know the statements  were  ready  for collection. When she hadnt received a call just after 
lunchtime she decided to take a late lunch at work  and go to the branch. This led to another  
three hours in the branch trying to organise  for the statements  to be re-ordered.  This was 
eventually completed  after the branch closed.
On one hand, it was Miss Hs own decision  to go to the branch when she hadnt heard 
anything back from TSB saying the statements  were  ready. And I can see no reason why 
she couldnt have  called  the same  number she called the day before to query  if they were 
ready. Having said that, from what Miss H has said it appears that if she didnt go into the 
branch there wouldve  been a longer delay in Miss H and Ms W receiving the statements 
they needed. Ultimately,  Miss H would have been  inconvenienced by this regardless of how 
she contacted  TSB.  
Miss H has also mentioned that she was unable to go to work or the theatre the following 
day due to a migraine that she feels was caused  by TSBs error. While I appreciate Miss Hs 
strength of feeling,  and I sympathise with the situation she was in at the time,  I hope she can 
appreciate that Im not able to safely say TSB was the sole cause of her getting  sick on the 
Friday. While I dont doubt the situation  was stressful,  it would  be too difficult  to conclude 
that the delayed statements are the only factor that caused Miss H to get a migraine. 
I can see that Miss H and Ms Ws statements were delayed by two days and that Miss H had 
to spend some time over the two days to get them ordered successfully. When  deciding  
what level of compensation is appropriate, I have to consider  the impact  that TSBs error  had 
on Miss H and Ms W. But the compensation isnt meant to be a punitive measure on TSB for 
the error  itself. And compensation can be very subjective. What  one individual might think is 
appropriate compensation, could  be seen as not enough by someone  else.  Our adjudicator 
did try to manage Miss H and Ms Ws expectations by explaining £2500 was much higher 
than what we would recommend. Having  carefully  considered all of the aspects of this 
complaint, I agree that a total of £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused if fair in the circumstances.  
As mentioned above, I dont think TSB is solely responsible for Miss H becoming sick and 
being unable  to go to the theatre.  So I dont think it needs to reimburse her for the cost of the 
ticket or the lost opportunity.  Nor does it need  to pay her for the time she took off work  due to 
the migraine. And as Miss H has previously explained, she was able to take paid time off 
work on the first day that she visited a branch. So it also doesnt need  to refund her any lost 
Ref: DRN27455983wages. So I think the £25 previously offered by TSB and for any expenses around telephone 
calls and travelling to the branch is fair. 
what the business needs  to do
TSB Bank plc should now pay Miss H and Ms W £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, plus £25 for financial loss. This makes a total of £175.
I understand it has already paid Miss H and Ms W £75 for distress and inconvenience and 
£25 for financial loss. It can deduct this from the total. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and TSB Bank plc should  now pay Miss H and Ms W as instructed 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2745598