K821x#15complaint
Mr T says PDL Finance  Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five short term loans PDL provided to Mr T between 
August 2018 and December 2018.  Loans  1, 2, 4 and 5 were repayable by six monthly 
instalments and Loan 3 was repayable by 12 monthly instalments. Loan  5 hasnt been 
repaid. Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 16/8/18 29/8/18 £500 Around £176
2. 22/9/18 26/9/18 £250 Around £119
3. 28/9/18 16/10/18 £1,000 Around £231
4. 10/11/18 11/11/18 £500 Around £186
5. 10/12/18 Outstanding £500 Around £186
PDL said in its final response letter that it had made  thorough  affordability  checks.  It said that 
Mr T had confirmed  that he was repaying between £713 and £1,068  towards other loans and 
it had taken these  into consideration. It had also offered as a gesture of goodwill to reset the 
balance due on Loan 5 to the capital balance of £251.67 which meant  that Mr T was only 
required to repay the amount hed borrowed and not the interest and charges.
Mr T declined PDLs  offer.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint in part and thought Loans 3 to 5 shouldnt have 
been given. He said that by Loan  3 proportionate checks  would most  likely have shown  that 
Mr T was having problems managing his money.  He said that PDL would have  become 
aware that Mr T had multiple outstanding loans by the time hed taken out Loan  3 and should 
have realised that Mr T wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay  Loan  3 and any 
subsequent loans.
PDL disagreed. It said that there  was a lack of detail  in the adjudicators view and that the 
adjudicator hadnt considered each of the loans. The lender said that there was no evidence 
to show that Mr T was having  problems managing his money.  He had repaid Loans 1 and 2 
on time. PDL was aware  that Mr T had other  loans  and took these into consideration. It had 
asked Mr T how much  he was paying  towards other loans  including  short term finance. With 
regard to Loan 5, it said that Mr T hadnt repaid any interest or fees and that there  was no 
adverse information  about the loan on Mr Ts credit file. It had already offered as a gesture of 
goodwill to reset the balance on Loan 5 to the balance of capital due.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN21344612For all of Mr Ts loans  the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
PDL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr T. It asked him for details  of his income and 
expenditure. PDL said that Mr Ts declared monthly income was £1,700 for all the loans. And 
it calculated that Mr Ts disposable  income was between £487 and £832.
PDL also checked Mr Ts credit file before  agreeing to the loans. PDL has provided us with a 
very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit score, that he had no 
outstanding payday loans  on Loans 1 to 3 and one outstanding payday loan on 
Ref: DRN21344613Loans 4 and 5, that he had had no delinquent loans or defaults in the previous three years 
and that he wasnt  bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement. I dont think  that the 
results of these checks should  have  caused  additional concerns to PDL.
I cant see that weve received a copy of Mr Ts credit report. So I cant say if there was 
anything on those checks that I think should have  caused PDL additional concerns about 
Mr Ts financial situation. But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same  level of detail that a consumers credit 
search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not 
all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies.  So, Mr Ts 
other short term loans  may not have been identified by PDLs credit  check.  So, this may 
explain any differences between the information  provided by PDLs credit  check and Mr Ts 
actual situation.
I think the checks PDL did before agreeing  Loans  1 and 2 were  proportionate.  I can see that 
the repayments that Mr T needed to make  were relatively modest  compared  to the income  
that he declared to PDL.  The highest repayment  for both loans  was £176.57. I dont  think the 
repayment amounts  were  so large that its obvious they wouldve  caused Mr T financial 
difficulty.
So given Mr Ts repayment amounts for Loans  1 and 2, what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, and that these  were his first two loans  with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask his for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr T provided or the information 
PDL shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I dont think PDL was wrong  to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr T.
Mr T then took out Loan 3 just two days after repaying Loan  2. I think  this might have 
suggested to PDL that repaying the loan caused  Mr T to need to borrow  again  which  wasnt 
a sustainable  situation. And the loan amount  had increased substantially to £1,000  to be 
repaid over 12 months with a highest  repayment amount of £231.83. So Mr T was 
committing to make his repayments over a far longer period than his previous loans. 
I think all this might have  been seen as an indication  of potential financial  difficulties  and 
should have caused PDL some concerns. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for PDL to base its assessment before Loan 3 on the 
information provided by Mr T as the loan amount had increased substantially  from before, 
and Mr T was now committing  to making the loan repayments over a lengthy  period. So I 
think it might  have  been proportionate at this time for PDL to have independently reviewed 
the true state of Mr Ts finances. As far as I can see PDL didnt do this. 
So I need to think  about what PDL wouldve seen  if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
Had it made these, its likely  that PDL wouldve learnt that Mr T had around seven 
outstanding short term loans with repayments of over £1,300 due around  the same  time as 
the repayments on Loan 3. I can see these on Mr Ts bank statements. I think  that the 
number and amount  of Mr Ts outstanding  short term loans show  that Mr T was having  
serious problems managing his money  and that PDLs loan wasnt likely to be sustainable.  
So I think it was wrong for PDL to give Loan 3 to Mr T.
Ref: DRN21344614Mr T repaid Loan 3 early. I note that hed also repaid Loans 1 and 2 early.  I think that 
behaviour might have  caused PDL some concerns  about Mr Ts finances. Around four 
weeks later he took out Loan 4. This was for £500  with six monthly repayments and a 
highest repayment of £186.56.  PDLs credit check before Loan 4 showed that Mr T had one 
short term loan account. 
I appreciate that PDL had asked Mr T for his income and expenditure including  other loans. 
But by the time of Loan 4, I think PDL should have been concerned that Mr T might have 
become reliant  on its lending. And he wasnt showing any signs  of getting to grips  with his 
borrowing. I think the pattern of Mr Ts borrowing was such  that it wasnt  reasonable for PDL 
to rely on the information hed declared. So I think independently verifying Mr Ts financial 
position would have been proportionate on Loan  4 too. 
Had it done so, PDL would have discovered  that Mr T had borrowed a total of £1,550 from at 
least four other short term lenders. He was committed  to repaying them at the same time as 
hed be repaying  Loan 4. Ive seen these loans on Mr Ts bank statements. So I think  it 
would have been clear to PDL if it had done proportionate checks  that Mr T was facing 
significant problems  managing his money and unlikely to be able repay Loan 4 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I dont think PDL should have provided Loan  4 to Mr T.
Loan 4 was again repaid early and Mr T borrowed Loan 5 around a month after hed repaid  
Loan 4. He again borrowed  £500.  I think PDL should  again have been concerned that Mr T 
might be reliant on its lending. And I again  think PDL should  have  independently checked 
Mr Ts financial situation before giving  him Loan 5. As far as I can see PDL didnt  do this. 
So I need to think  about what PDL wouldve seen  if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
Had it made these, its likely  that PDL wouldve learnt that Mr T had three outstanding short 
term loans totalling  £850 as well as around  £700 payable for other loans and credit card 
repayments repayable around the same  time as Loan 5. I can see these on Mr Ts bank 
statements. I think that the number and amount of Mr Ts outstanding short  term loans show 
that Mr T was having serious problems managing his money and that PDLs loan wasnt 
likely to be sustainable. So I think it was wrong for PDL to give Loan  5 to Mr T. 
So Im upholding  this complaint in part with regard to Loans  3 to 5 and PDL should put things 
right as shown below. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr T paid on Loans 3 and 4 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2.Refund all interest  and charges Mr T paid on Loan 5 and pay interest of 8% simple  a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 5;
Ref: DRN213446154.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  5 and 
pay any balance to Mr T; and
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  3 to 5 from Mr Ts credit file; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If PDL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2134461