K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Caversham Finance Limited refused to let him reject a faulty sofa.
Background
In August  2016  M acquired  sofa costing £1,491 with hire purchase credit provided by 
Caversham. Mr B reported the sofa as being faulty in June 2018. It was inspected by an 
engineer and a replacement  sofa was provided.  Caversham  has said that under the terms fi 
the agreement  Mr B was entitled to a replacement  of a similar age and condition. The 
second sofa was almost  a year old and deemed to be in excellent  condition.
In September  2018 Mr B notified the business that the second sofa was faulty. An engineer 
inspected it and confirmed it was faulty  but could be repaired. Mr B refused to let the 
engineer repair it. Mr B stopped making  his payments. Caversham has explained that its 
customers are only obliged  to make payment while they have possession of the goods or 
they are being  repaired. It had told this service  Mr B owes £1,169.83 and it didnt expect to 
recover this debt.
The initial report stated that the corner unit was broken  with the wood  crumbling such  that it 
couldnt be repaired. It said that it was due to excessive force  from the customer. Caversham 
rejected Mr Bs complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was considered  by 
one of our investigators  who recommended it be upheld.
She noted the cost of the sofa and didnt  think it should have been  beyond economical repair 
after two years. She said the replacement sofa was deemed to be faulty within  two months  
pf delivery and so she didnt  consider  it to have been of satisfactory  quality either. She 
thought Mr B should have been able to return the goods at that point and the finance 
agreement should  have been cancelled.
She noted that Mr Bs last payment was made on 17 August 2018 and the agreement was 
terminated on 21 November 2018  because of non-payment. Caversham had passed the 
debt to a collection  agency and she suggested it retrieve the debt and cancel the agreement.  
Caversham didnt agree  and said the damage  had been caused  by Mr B due to continued 
application of excessive force. It accepted there  was manufacturing fault with the second 
sofa, but it was repairable and Mr B should have allowed it to effect  a repair.  Our investigator  
responded and explained  that under the Consumers Rights  Act goods were expected to be 
durable and she thought  a sofa should  be able to withstand everyday use. 
Caversham didnt agree  and said that Mr B was responsible for the goods in his possession 
and it didnt belie it should accept liability for the damage which  it believed went beyond 
reasonable use. It said there was no evidence  of a fault being present at the point of sale.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN20610322The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Caversham is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. 
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The key issue in this complaint is the cause of the damage done to the original  sofa. I 
believe it is agreed that goods  especially new ones  must be durable  and a sofa should last 
more than two years.  I note that it wasnt chap  and therefore I think  it reasonable to presume 
it was of sufficient quality to last for well beyond two years.
The inspector said that Caversham was liable due to customer  fault,  excessive force. I find 
that curious. Why would  Caversham be liable of the fault was due to the customer and why 
would it accept lability?  The inspector  hasnt  elaborated on how or why he considered the 
damage was due to excessive  force.  Having  read the reports  and studied the photographs I 
can see no external signs  of excessive force or unreasonable  use.
I also note the second  sofa which seems to be identical from the photographs provided failed 
after two months with Mr B. It was less than two years old and Caversham accept it had a 
manufacturing fault. That raises in my mind the possibility  that this particular type of sofa 
may well have some generic inherent problems. This has not been explored  in any detail.
So while I have some sympathy with the arguments  put forward  by Caversham I consider on 
balance that our investigator  reached the correct conclusion. 
Ref: DRN20610323My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Caversham Finance Limited to:
cancel the agreement for the sofa
arrange to collect the sofa at no cost to Mr B
if the debt has been  sold on, buy the debt back and remove the default  from Mr Bs 
credit file and any adverse markings.
mark the agreement  on his credit file as satisfied or settled as of September 2018
ensure collections  activity on any arrears stops.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2061032