K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) cancelled his motor  
policy but refused  to provide a pro-rate refund of the premium.
Mr K is represented by his father,  also Mr K, so for ease of reference  I shall just refer to Mr K 
throughout.
background
Mr K bought his policy in April 2018 and as per the policy conditions his car was fitted with a 
telematics box to monitor Mr Ks driving.  A fault claim was registered against Mr Ks policy 
also in April, which RSA dealt with, paying  that other drivers claim.
In July 2018, RSA sent Mr I a notice that he had been speeding as a warning, saying if there 
was another speeding issue it would have to cancel  the policy.  Unfortunately Mr K was found 
to be speeding  again later on in July and RSA cancelled the policy  giving Mr K seven days  
notice. Because  it paid the other drivers  claim in April,  RSA said there would be no pro-rata 
premium refund.
Mr K complained but RSA didnt change its stance.  So Mr K brought his complaint to us. The 
adjudicator didnt think RSA had done  anything wrong. Mr K disagreed and so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Given the two speeding  issues and the fact this was a telematics policy,  I dont consider 
RSA did anything wrong in cancelling the policy. RSA followed the policy terms and 
conditions in providing a warning and then sadly having to cancel the policy.  Consequently,  
given the terms  and conditions of the policy it was Mr Ks driving  which forced the 
cancellation. Therefore,  it wasnt  anything that RSA did which caused the policy  to be 
cancelled. Had Mr K not speeded,  his policy wouldnt have been cancelled,  quite simply. 
The policy also states quite clearly that if a claim is made against  the policy,  there is no 
refund of premium. This is a standard industry  wide practice so I dont find it at all unusual. 
The reason  for this is because the risk insured includes the payment of any claims from 
either another driver  or the insured  or even both. Thats what  the premium charged  is there  
to deal with. Here there was a fault claim on Mr Ks policy, which  in effect means  the insured 
risk happened, so in turn that means quite sensibly, theres no premium refund for any 
cancellation before  the policy expiry date. 
If the accident hadnt happened and if the speeding issues also hadnt happened, then this 
policy would not have been  cancelled and so the issue of a refund of premium  would not 
have arisen.
Ref: DRN28832992my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2883299