K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly  declined her storm damage claim after 
cornicing fell from her property.
Mrs G is represented by the broker that arranged the policy.
background
Mrs G made  the claim under her landlord  insurance policy.  Allianz appointed loss adjusters 
to assess the claim, who noted there  were  no storm conditions  when  the incident occurred 
and suspected wear  and tear and gradual deterioration to be the cause. But nonetheless, 
the loss adjusters recommended that an independent building surveyor be appointed.
The surveyor noted a section of cornicing had lost its fixing and fallen. They also found  moss 
growth to the majority of the cornicing joints, and noted the joints  were weathered with some 
large gapping. They found rust staining on the cornicing and concluded this was from either 
the reinforcement within the cornicing or the screw fixings;  and they also noted the bracket 
fixings were each missing two or three  screws.  The surveyor provided photos to support  
their observations.  They concluded  that the cornicing  was suffering from gradual 
deterioration through weathering and was disintegrating.
The loss adjusters subsequently declined the claim based on the following policy  exclusion:  
loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or 
resulting from  wear and tear  or anything which happens gradually. 
Mrs G and her broker complained about the loss adjusters  outcome, but Allianz maintained 
the decision. Mrs G and her broker remained unhappy, so they brought  a complaint to this 
service. They have  made the following  points  to Allianz and our service:
The roof was only built eight years  previously and the lead covering shows  no signs  
of wear and tear  so there wasnt any reason to believe the cornicing was in a poor 
condition. Mrs G wasnt aware  the cornicing had deteriorated,  and its unreasonable  
to expect an inspection of invisible fixings within  a short  period of construction. The 
property has been kept in good condition, and there hasnt been a lack of 
maintenance.
Mrs G believes  recent  bad weather  caused  the damage, but even  if the claim cant  
be considered  under  her storm coverage it should be considered  under her 
accidental damage coverage. 
The wear and tear exclusion  is a get-out  clause  for every storm claim on hidden 
areas of buildings.
Allianz are unfairly invoking exclusions when it chose  not to survey the property, and 
draft a schedule of condition, before approving  cover.  The onus is on Allianz to show 
a lack of maintenance, but it cant do this given it didnt inspect the property  at the 
start of the contract.  Allianz has also contradicted  itself by citing  both poor  
workmanship and wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN23131052Mrs G took steps to mitigate further loss by erecting scaffolding to protect the building 
from the elements,  and also passers-by from falling material.  Had she not done  so 
and someone was injured, Allianz  would  have had the expense of a liability claim.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but she thought the claim had been fairly 
declined based  on the reasons given by Allianz. Because Mrs G and her broker disagreed  
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs Gs policy provides  cover for one-off  events,  which are listed  in her policy  booklet.  The 
potential coverages  that could  apply  here are storm and accidental  damage. I will cover 
these off in turn.
As explained by our investigator, there  are three  conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage  should  succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed  Mrs Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind.
The policy defines  storm as: strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54 miles per hour) that 
may be accompanied by heavy rain, snow or sleet
This definition means that for damage  to be considered under the storm coverage there has 
to be wind speed  of at least 54 mph. This is not an unusual term, and nor is the level of wind 
required by Mrs Gs policy significantly high compared to most other policies available  on the 
market. In any event, having  reviewed  local weather records  for the date of the incident  and 
for four weeks before,  the highest  recorded  wind speed was 38 mph. This falls well below  
the wind speed required by Mrs Gs policy, and also below what  this service  generally 
considers to be storm force winds.
There was a period  of high rainfall  prior to the incident. But even if I were  to decide that this 
rainfall alone should reasonably be considered a storm, Im not persuaded the damage is 
typical of that caused  by rainfall  and in view of the building  surveyors report, overall  Im 
persuaded the main cause was gradual  deterioration, which the policy  excludes. In my 
opinion, its reasonable to expect cornicing to withstand a period  of high rainfall  this 
shouldnt cause securely fixed or well-maintained  material to fall from a building.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied that Allianz  fairly declined to cover  the claim under  the storm 
coverage.
Ill turn now to the accidental damage coverage. The policy  defines  accidental damage as:  
damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force.
Ref: DRN23131053Allianz accepts the property is generally  well maintained and in a good condition,  and in my 
view Mrs G couldnt reasonably have known about  the issues  given the location of the 
cornicing. So I consider  it reasonable  to say the damage was caused unexpectedly.
However, because  Im persuaded the cornicing deteriorated over a period of time,  its not my 
view that the damage was caused  suddenly. As such, I dont consider the damage  to fall 
within the accidental  damage coverage.
Irrespective of whether  an insurer surveyed a property before cover started, its entitled to 
rely on the terms a policyholder agreed  to when taking their policy out. Allianzs gradual 
deterioration, storm, and accidental damage  terms arent unfair or unusual, in my view.  
Therefore, Im satisfied  Allianz relied on these terms fairly.
I understand the point Mrs G and her broker have made about preventing  liability claims. But 
Im not persuaded I can fairly decide  Allianz should  cover or contribute  to Mrs Gs scaffolding  
costs on this basis. The policy terms place  a duty on Mrs G to take all reasonable steps to 
minimise the risk of accident,  injury,  loss or damage.   So because an insured event wasnt  
the cause of the damage to the cornicing, which was presenting a risk, it was for Mrs G to 
take mitigating  steps  and Allianz  isnt responsible for the costs  she incurred when taking 
those steps. Im not persuaded Allianz would have  been responsible for any damage or 
injury caused by further falling cornicing if Mrs G hadnt taken any action when she was 
aware of the risk the cornicing posed.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied Allianz has sufficiently  shown through  the building surveyors 
report, that the damage wasnt caused by an insured event. But rather it occurred gradually 
over time. Im sorry to say, regardless of Mrs Gs lack of awareness of the cornicings 
deterioration, theres isnt any cover  under  her policy.  
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs G. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313105