K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Fairmead  Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have  unfairly voided 
their home insurance essentials policy following a claim.
background
In March 2017 Mr and Mrs D took out home  insurance which  covered buildings  and 
contents. In May 2017, following a fire at their home, they contacted  Fairmead to make  a 
claim under their home  insurance.
Fairmead considered  the claim,  but then voided the policy. It said itd looked  at Mr and Mrs 
Ds application which had asked them to disclose their previous insurance  claims. And while 
theyd declared  one previous accidental damage  claim from November 2014, they hadnt 
disclosed a second  from November 2013. Fairmead  said if itd known of these two claims at 
application it wouldnt have accepted  the proposal.  So it voided the policy  from inception.  
Mr and Mrs D said shortly after contacting Fairmead they realised  they hadnt disclosed  the 
2013 claim, saying  this was an oversight. But they felt voiding the policy entirely  was unfair,  
and they said it seemed  unrealistic Fairmead wouldnt have accepted  consumers whod had 
two claims within  a five year period.
Mr and Mrs D proposed  instead that a fair outcome would be for Fairmead to void the 
contents aspect  of their policy only, and settle  the buildings  part of the claim. They brought 
their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into what happened  and 
upheld the complaint.
The investigator was satisfied the question  Fairmead asked about previous claims was clear,  
and that Mr and Mrs D understood  it but answered  incorrectly. The investigator didnt think  
Mr and Mrs D had taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation about claims 
when answering  the question, and she agreed with Fairmead that this was careless  as 
opposed to reckless or deliberate.
The investigator then considered whether the misrepresentation wouldve impacted 
Fairmeads decision to insure Mr and Mrs D. She thought the policy schedule showed 
Fairmead considered  buildings and contents insurances separately,  and indeed  priced them  
separately. And the underwriting criteria shed seen suggested the two previous claims 
wouldnt have affected Fairmeads decision to provide  buildings  cover.  So, she said while  
Fairmead had fairly voided the contents aspect of the insurance, it shouldnt  have voided the 
buildings insurance  and should reconsider the claim.
Mr and Mrs D agreed.  But Fairmead disagreed, saying the policies were applied  for as a 
combined insurance and not two separate policies. Because  Fairmead disagreed, the 
complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. On 6 March  2020 I issued my 
provisional thoughts on the complaint explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint. 
Ive included my comments below.
My determination of this complaint  is made  in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what  I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take 
into account relevant:
Ref: DRN26220252law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is a relevant 
consideration given it is relevant law to the issues in dispute. Under CIDRA Mr and Mrs D 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And if they fail in that 
duty it is for Fairmead to show that it wouldnt  have  offered them cover at all if they hadnt  
made the misrepresentation. Or that it wouldve done so on different terms.
And if Fairmead can show theres been  a qualifying  misrepresentation, CIDRA sets out 
certain remedies. These remedies differ  depending  on whether the representation  is found to 
be reckless, deliberate, or careless.  In this case Fairmead has found the misrepresentation 
to be careless.
Mr and Mrs D took out this policy online through a comparison  website. Fairmead hasnt 
been able to give me a copy of the wording from the application form. But Mr and Mrs D 
havent disputed  that they understood the question, and said they didnt answer  this correctly 
through an oversight.
Given Mr and Mrs D included one of their previous claims and with what  theyve said, Im 
satisfied they were presented with a clear  question.  And taking into account  what  theyve 
told us, Im satisfied that Fairmead has shown that Mr and Mrs D didnt take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation when  completing their application.
So, I need to decide whether Fairmead has demonstrated  that without the misrepresentation 
it wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all or wouldve only done so on different terms. 
Fairmead has provided its underwriting guide and said this shows  it wouldnt have taken on 
new business for a customer that had more than one loss (per section of cover) in the last 
five years.  Fairmead  also said that had the correct information been input into the 
comparison website Fairmead  wouldnt have appeared  as an option  for Mr and Mrs D to buy 
a policy  from.
Ive looked at Fairmeads underwriting guide  and it is clear  that where there is more than one 
claim for a section of cover then that section of insurance cant be offered. So, Im satisfied 
the Mr and Mrs Ds two contents claims wouldve breached Fairmeads acceptance criteria 
for contents  cover.
Fairmead considers  the policy as one insurance  contract that includes different levels and 
types of cover. And in turn its applied  a remedy under CIDRA to void the insurance  policy  
that Mr and Mrs D held in its entirety.
I agree  its likely the home essentials policy as sold to Mr and Mrs D is a single contract of 
insurance. However, Fairmeads  policy offers standalone buildings  cover, standalone 
contents cover or combined buildings and contents.
Section 4 CIDRA (Qualifying  misrepresentations: definition and remedies) says an insurer  
has a remedy (in the circumstances of this complaint) only if theres a breach  of the duty to 
take reasonable care and without the misrepresentation,  that insurer  would not have entered 
into the contract at all (my emphasis), or would have done so only on different terms. 
Ref: DRN26220253Its not disputed  by Fairmead that it would, on the correct information  from an underwriting  
perspective, have  been prepared to offer buildings cover. And indeed, standalone buildings  
cover is an available  option. But Fairmead says that it wouldnt have offered the combined 
policy through the comparison website  and thats  why its entitled to void the entire  contract. 
The remedy  Fairmead  relies on is that in Schedule  1 paragraph 5, which  states:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms the 
insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all claims
CIDRA is silent on the vehicle and means  by which the contract is entered  into i.e. 
comparison website, insurance broker or direct  with the insurer. The key part, in my view,  is 
whether or not Fairmead would have entered into the insurance contract with Mr and Mrs D 
on any terms, knowing about  the two contents  claims.
Ive thought very carefully about the issues and relevant  law in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular case. Having done  so, Im satisfied 
Fairmead wouldve  entered into the insurance  contract,  but on amended  terms. Specifically,  
due to Mr and Mrs Ds claims history  Im persuaded Fairmead was prepared to insure their 
buildings but not their contents.
For this reason, Im not persuaded that Fairmead  wasnt prepared to enter  into this contract 
at all. I consider  it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint that 
Fairmead should reinstate Mr and Mrs Ds buildings policy as if it was in place from March  
2017. And Id now direct  Fairmead to consider  their buildings claim in line with the buildings  
cover policy terms,  limits  and exclusions.
The policy schedule says the cost of the buildings cover is £139.54, plus £23.01 for buildings 
extended accidental  damage cover  totalling  £162.55.
From what  Ive seen, Fairmead  has considered Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation as 
careless. The relevant  remedy for this under CIDRA  would  be for Fairmead to refund any 
premiums paid going back to the inception of the policy.
As a result if Fairmead has already refunded  Mr and Mrs Ds premiums, I think  it would be 
reasonable for it to deduct the sum of £162.55 to represent the cost of the buildings 
insurance in the event  it subsequently settles this claim.
I gave both parties until 20 March 2020 to respond. Mr and Mrs D have provided nothing  
further and Fairmead  disagreed with my decision.  Ive summarised  its comments below.
Our service should not direct a business  how it should be run, and instead decide  
whether the decision  it made was fair and reasonable based on the facts;
Mr and Mrs D took out their policy online and failed to disclose a previous claim, on 
this basis it exercised its right to void the policy as the risk was unacceptable;  and
Fairmead would  not have offered  a standalone  buildings only policy  to Mr and Mrs D 
if they had approached  it directly.  And had Mr and Mrs D approached Fairmead 
through another medium (such as a broker) and the contents  claims were disclosed, 
then it wouldnt have  offered a policy.
Ref: DRN26220254Overall Fairmead has said I should  not consider what Mr and Mrs D couldve done, and 
instead what they did do.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Fairmead has suggested my provisional decisions proposed direction tells it how to run its 
business. I disagree with this comment. And it is only in this particular case, based on its 
facts that Im satisfied  Fairmead wouldve still insured Mr and Mrs Ds buildings. 
Fairmead has also reiterated its arguments  regarding the cover  being sold jointly.  However, 
it has presented no new evidence or information for me to consider. So I see no reason to 
change my mind for the reasons Ive previously given.
my final decision
For these reasons, Im upholding  this complaint and directing Fairmead Insurance  Limited to 
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds claim under their buildings insurance cover  (subject  to the terms, 
limits and conditions).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2622025