K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that Towergate failed to renew  her business protection insurance  policy  in 
December 2017  despite her instructions. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2019, part of which  is copied below:
Mrs C runs a health and beauty business, S as a sole trader. She says she has been a 
customer of Towergate  for a number of years, and has always  renewed  her business 
protection insurance policy  with it. 
On 21 November 2017 Mrs C was sent a renewal invite for her policy.  Her policy  usually 
renews on 23 December.  Towergate says it didnt  hear from her, so it sent a reminder on 11 
December. It says it has no records of Mrs Cs response, so the policy wasnt  renewed.
Mrs C says she called Towergate  on 22 December and was told that her policy was 
renewed. But she says she didnt receive any renewal documents for some time and says 
she queried this with Towergate in April 2018.
She also needed to make  a claim in May 2018 under the retroactive cover section of her 
policy. However, she was told that such cover  wasnt available because  her policy  never 
renewed.
Towergate says although a call was received which was likely to be from Mrs C, it doesnt 
have any recordings,  or notes related  to it. Towergate also says during this period, its Health 
and Beauty team were  short-staffed and other team members  were only taking messages 
from clients. Towergate has assumed that during the call, no instructions wouldve been 
taken, and a call back wouldve been arranged instead. 
Our investigator considered the information and decided not to uphold  the complaint. Mrs C 
disagreed and provided her comments. She felt the outcome was unfair as it didnt take into 
account the evidence she had provided. Because of this the matter has been passed to me 
to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs C called Towergate on 22 December 2017. She has provided 
copies of a family members itemised phone bill evidencing this. And based  on what  both 
Towergate and Mrs C have said, I dont agree with the outcome the investigator reached. 
Where theres a gap in documentary evidence, I must decide what, on balance,  was most 
likely to have happened when Mrs Cs policy  came  up for renewal. Ive done  this by weighing 
the information that is available as well as what the parties have said.
I can see that Mrs Cs policy was due to renew on 23 December. I appreciate she was sent 
two notifications  but I dont  think she failed  to respond to them.  Rather what Ive seen 
suggests that she called Towergate  on 22 December  in response to those  notifications. 
Given the timing of the call and her history of continually renewing insurance  with 
Ref: DRN26233582Towergate, I think its likely that Mrs C called  to renew her policy. Ive also thought about 
what Towergate has said about being  short staffed and that no recording of the call is 
available and having done so I think its likely  that Mrs C called to renew her policy  but for 
whatever reason this didnt happen. Because there  isnt a copy  of the call recording or any 
system notes confirming what happened when  Mrs C called, Ive thought  about what  Mrs C 
has said. I find this both specific  and persuasive.  And I think she wouldve done more  to 
ensure the policy  was in place had Towergate given her the impression this was something 
they hadnt actioned or that they were due to action after someone called her back at a later 
date.  Her  query in April 2018 about policy documents and claim the following month is 
consistent with that belief.   
Towergate have  said that no payment was taken  from Mrs C for the policy  and this shouldve 
alerted her to the fact that no cover was in place. Ive thought about this and what  Mrs C has 
said. She says she was told the policy was being renewed and that sums would be debited  
from her account. I accept that Mrs C didnt  check her account to see if this had happened 
but given what  she says I dont think she had a reason to look out for this particularly, which 
is consistent with what Id expect if she thought payment was being taken.
Taking all of this into account  I think that Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld.
Mrs C says her business S, now requires  the benefit of a business protection policy.  I also 
think had the policy been renewed correctly when Mrs C called Towergate, she wouldnt 
have had a problem with this now. However, Towergate is not the underwriter of Mrs Cs 
policy. And, it, or this service cant control  whether the underwriter would be willing to take 
on the risk of a claim posed by S by backdating  her current policy  to 23 December 2017. For 
these reasons and because  of the difficulties Mrs C has faced I think  the most  appropriate  
award of compensation is what I have set out below.
fair compensation
Towergate should:
Invite Mrs C to get in touch. If there  are any claims she wishes  to make from 23 
December 2017 Towergate should  step into the shoes  of Mrs Cs insurer  and consider 
them, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy  that wouldve been  in place, if 
Towergate had correctly renewed Mrs Cs policy;
If Mrs C is successful in making  a monetary claim, Towergate should  pay her 8% per 
year simple*  on any sums it pays out, one month  after Mrs C wouldve originally made 
her claim (most likely May 2018) until those sums are paid. 
* I understand that Towergate is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs C needs  to take any further action will depend  on her financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN26233583Both parties  have responded.  Mrs C has said she agrees with my provisional findings. 
Towergate have  also responded.  Theyve  made the following points:
They have never disputed Mrs C contacted  them around  the date of renewal.
A call back  message was more  than likely taken in respect of contacting her to discuss 
the reason for her call.
The staff taking overflow calls were purely  taking messages only,  not actioning requests.
Mrs C has confirmed she was not asked for card details at the time. Each year 
Towergate take new card details as they are not stored for auto renewal/debit for future 
years.
In accordance with previous years, Mrs C wouldve expected  to make a payment and 
receive a confirmation. She didnt in this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld.
Whilst I appreciate Towergates comments,  I dont think they can say with any certainty what 
happened when  Mrs C spoke with one of their representatives on 22 December 2017.  Thats  
because they didnt record the call, nor do they have any notes of it. Because  of the timing  of 
the call, Mrs Cs account of what took place and the type of contact she made  with 
Towergate after that, Im persuaded  that Mrs C thought she had renewed her policy. 
From what  Towergate has said, nothing happened  to correct this belief. So if its right that 
staff were taking messages only, then I wouldve expected them  to call Mrs C back to return 
her call. Towergate havent provided  any evidence of a call back in the form of call notes or a 
call recording  that might support this position.
And I dont  think Mrs C wouldve known  she had to give new card details each year in order  
to renew her policy. From what shes  said, I think it was reasonable for her to conclude 
Towergate would use the same card details they used  the year before. 
Ive already explained why I thought Mrs C wouldve thought a payment was and had been 
taken in my provisional  decision  and that I thought it was likely she didnt check  back to see 
if this had happened.
fair compensation
Towergate should:
Invite Mrs C to get in touch. If there  are any claims she wishes  to make from 23 
December 2017 Towergate should  step into the shoes  of Mrs Cs insurer  and consider 
them, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy  that wouldve been  in place, if 
Towergate had correctly renewed Mrs Cs policy;
If Mrs C is successful in making  a monetary claim, Towergate should  pay her 8% per 
year simple*  on any sums it pays out, one month  after Mrs C wouldve originally made 
her claim (most likely May 2018) until those sums are paid. 
Ref: DRN26233584* I understand that Towergate is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs C needs  to take any further action will depend  on her financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Towergate Underwriting 
Group Limited and direct  them to comply with my award of fair compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2623358