K822xcomplaint
Mrs L complains  that National Deposit Friendly Society Limited  (National Friendly)  
authorised treatment under her private  medical  insurance policy, but then withdrew  it. 
Although this complaint concerns a company to which  National  Friendly outsources its 
medical claims administration, that company acted on National Friendlys  behalf. Ive 
therefore referred to that company as National Friendly throughout this decision.
background
Mrs L needed treatment  and asked National Friendly if she had enough cover  under her 
policy for this. National Friendly authorised the full cost of the treatment in error, however 
later the same day, it corrected its error. Unhappy with this, Mrs L brought  a complaint to this 
service. 
Our casework team manager  upheld the complaint. She thought  National Friendly  had 
caused Mrs L unnecessary upset  at a difficult time. She recommended it pay Mrs L £350 
compensation. 
National Friendly accepted the casework  team managers recommendations, but Mrs L 
didnt. The matter  has therefore been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs Ls policy provides a capped amount of cover. The level of cover reduces with any 
claims paid. 
As Mrs L had had a number of claims paid out under  the policy,  she contacted National 
Friendly to find out if she had enough  cover  remaining for treatment that she needed. She 
was advised by National Friendly that it would  need  to contact her specialist to establish  
exactly what treatment was needed, before it could estimate the costs  involved and confirm 
whether the policy  would cover those costs. 
One of National  Friendlys nurses  contacted Mrs Ls specialist and it was apparent that the 
cost of the treatment  exceeded the amount of cover  Mrs L had left under her policy.  
However, National Friendly  then spoke with Mrs Ls treating hospital and incorrectly  advised 
it that the full treatment  was authorised. The hospital  passed  on this information to Mrs L 
who was greatly relieved.  
A few hours later, National Friendly realised  its error. It advised  Mrs Ls treating specialists 
secretary that it wouldnt cover the full cost of the treatment. 
Mrs L thinks that because  National Friendly had authorised the full cost of the treatment, it 
should honour this. 
Although the full treatment costs were authorised in error, the mistake  was quickly  put right 
before any treatment had taken place or any costs  incurred. I therefore dont agree with 
Ref: DRN27537272Mrs L that National Friendly  should  cover the full cost of her treatment when this exceeds the 
cover she has under  the policy.  
Having said that, I think National  Friendlys error  did cause Mrs L unnecessary  upset at an 
already vulnerable time. Like the casework team manager, I think  a moderate amount of 
compensation would be appropriate to reflect this. I see the casework  team manager 
recommended National  Friendly pay £350 compensation, which  I agree  would  be 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National Deposit Friendly Society 
Limited to pay Mrs L £350 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2753727