K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about advice given  by HDIFA (then  part of Berkshire  Financial Advisers Ltd) 
to transfer the value  of her deferred  benefits in a former employers pension scheme to a self 
invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest in an unregulated investment. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice 
HDIFA gave. 
background   
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2020. I set out the background, including some 
of the documentation Ms C had signed,  what she and Meyado had said about what  had 
happened and my provisional  findings.
In summary,  Ms C had deferred benefits in a former employers  final salary scheme. An 
unregulated introducer referred her to a regulated  business (an appointed  representative  of 
a network) Ill call Firm A. That firm didnt  have the necessary  permissions to advise on final 
salary pension transfers so Ms C was referred to HDIFA.
The documents Ive seen  include  a pension review questionnaire (PRQ)  signed  by Ms C on 
26 June 2012.  She also signed a letter of authority and a letter  of engagement on that date. 
The PRQ recorded, amongst other  things  that Ms C was aged 46, widowed, employed 
(earning about £30,000 pa) and had just joined her new employers money purchase 
pension scheme. The PRQ included a series of questions about Ms Cs attitude to 
investment risk. 
HDIFA wrote  to Ms C on 2 July 2012 saying Ms C had recently  met with the unregulated 
introducer and had decided to make  a specific investment. Shed been introduced to Firm A. 
That firm had referred the matter to HDIFA whod prepare a formal advice report. About the 
underlying investments HDIFA  said Ms C had already decided where she wished to invest  
her pension fund and satisfied herself the investment was suitable.  She wasnt seeking any 
further input from HDIFA.  The letter said, in bold, that HDIFA wouldnt be commenting on 
the investments  Ms C had chosen and HDIFA accepted no responsibility for her decision.
HDIFAs suitability report was dated 16 July 2012. HDIFA recommended  that Ms C transfer 
from her former employers pension scheme  to a SIPP with the provider named to invest in 
White Sands.  About Ms Cs attitude  to investment risk the report  said she was a reasonably  
adventurous investor with previous experience  of equity markets and happy  to accept a high 
degree of risk in exchange for the possibility of a higher pension  in retirement. 
Ms Cs SIPP  was opened on 31 July 2012. A transfer value of £77,380.98  was paid into the 
SIPP on 18 September 2012.  HDIFAs fee of £2,500 was paid on 25 September 2012. Firm 
A received £500 out of that for the introduction. On 28 November 2012 two investments, 
£36,206 each  so in total £72,412, were then made  in White  Sands. 
The SIPP provider wrote to Ms C in January 2014 to let her know the investment had been  
put into liquidation. 
Ms C, represented by solicitors, complained to Meyado  in April 2016. Meyado didnt uphold
the complaint.  Ms Cs representative asked us to look into it. Our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. He said Ms C should have been advised  against transferring to a SIPP  and 
Ref: DRN27252972investing in White Sands. Meyado didnt agree. Its legal representative said the adjudicators 
reasoning and conclusions were flawed.  Its main points were:
Wed failed to request  evidence as to the role of and advice given by Firm A. That 
firm knew Ms C intended to invest in a high risk and speculative asset before 
HDIFAs involvement. Ms C had already signed  (on 16 June 2012) a transfer out 
acceptance, confirming  her unequivocal requirement to transfer  to the SIPP. The 
transfer was already  in progress and shed have  pursued her chosen investment 
regardless of any advice to the contrary.  
HDIFA didnt advise  on the underlying investment and its letter  of 2 July 2012  made  
HDIFAs limited  role clear. If Ms C required advice on the investment (as opposed to 
arranging the transfer to the SIPP with the funds to be held initially in cash)  from 
HDIFA (and not any other  party) she should have  asked HDIFAs adviser.  HDIFAs 
letter of 6 July 2012 said the agency  for the SIPP would be transferred to Firm A for 
the purpose of the chosen investment. 
Our failure to investigate Firm As involvement  was illogical, irrational  and unfair. Both 
HDIFA and Firm A say they didnt give advice about the investment. Wed accepted 
what Firm A had said (its letter  of 6 July 2012). Btu wed continued the complaint 
against HDIFA despite the unambiguous  limit on its set out in the letter  dated  2 July 
2012. It cant be right that one party  can point  to a particular clause and escape 
further scrutiny but HDIFA cant rely on an apparently equally valid clause.
Our statutory responsibility  is to determine complaints by reference  to what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Firm As role is fundamental in 
assessing that. Without sight  of all documentation as to Firm As role, we couldnt 
properly resolve the complaint. Firm A may no longer be trading but its principal is. 
Wed failed to give any or sufficient  weight to HDIFAs written warnings and which 
show Ms C would  have gone  ahead anyway.  And wed ignored what  had been said 
about the deficit in the employers pension scheme. 
HDIFA was simply arranging  the transfer (because Firm A didnt have the 
necessary permissions).  HDIFA made it clear in writing  it wouldnt be advising on the 
underlying investment. It wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable in full when 
(outside of its advice  and on advice from someone else) the money was invested as 
it was. Thats irrational  and ignores  issues of causation.
The average lay person  wouldnt  feel the exclusive mischief  here was the transfer  to
a SIPP.  Rather it was the investment. Our approach leaves the provider of the advice
about the investment without any liability. HDIFA had no control over but is being 
blamed for Ms Cs investment decisions.   
Ms Cs representative added some comments. It had requested Firm As file. There  was just 
a letter  dated  6 July 2012 saying Ms C had been referred to HDIFA. Ms C had re-signed the 
transfer out acceptance on 25 July 2012  after HDIFAs advice had been given. The form 
wasnt submitted in June  2012 as Ms C hadnt  had the necessary regulated advice. She 
hadnt decided  what she was going  to do before  HDIFAs involvement.  It was accepted that 
HDIFA didnt advise  on the underlying investment. The point was HDIFA should have done. 
Ms Cs former employers scheme  may have  had a deficit. But, if she hadnt transferred 
away, her pension would still be safe.  Instead  its now lost.
We made some further enquiries. We were aware some investors had received incentive 
payments. Ms C confirmed  shed  received  a payment of £16,700  on 30 November 2012  and 
she provided a copy  of her bank  statement  showing the payment.  Shed understood it was 
part of her tax free cash entitlement. Shed spent it gradually over time and sent some  of it to 
her elderly mother who lives in another country.
Ref: DRN27252973We asked for some  more  details. Ms C said she wasnt an expert  and didnt understand the 
details about tax free entitlements. But shed been told she qualified  for a tax free payment. 
She couldnt recall,  some  seven years later, exactly what shed spent all the money on. 
Shed used most of it to pay rent and debts  as well as sending some money to her mother 
towards her upkeep and medication. The rest was used  over a long period of time (three 
years or more) to look after Ms C and her three  children. Ms Cs husband had died in 2008 
and by 2011 she was in debt.
As to how it had all come  about,  Ms C said shed been contacted in 2012 by a company (the 
unregulated introducer) whod told her about a property investment  scheme  in Brazil. She 
said she was interested  and was put in touch with Firm A. That firm contacted her to say it 
couldnt assist  and she was referred to HDIFA. She couldnt remember the actual discussion 
about the incentive payment. Just that she was told she was entitled to a payment according 
to how much was transferred into the SIPP. She didnt know if HDIFA was aware of the 
payment. She trusted those involved.  Shes  confused as to who did what.  But the introducer, 
HDIFA and Firm A were  all involved in the overall transaction.  
We shared that with Meyados legal  representative. It queried why we hadnt disclosed the 
questions wed asked.  And it asked for sight of Ms Cs bank statements. It pointed  out that 
shed referred to the involvement of the introducer  and Firm A as well as HDIFA. And the 
incentive payment  was material. Ms C was under financial  pressure.  The payment would 
have been a powerful motivating factor in her decision to transfer  shed have transferred 
anyway, irrespective of any advice to the contrary.  She cant  say clearly that HDIFA was the 
culpable party. Instead shes  confused  as to who did what. That reflects  a central issue and 
that its incorrect to target Meyado with full responsibility for the losses.
We shared the questions  wed asked Ms C. But we didnt provide copies of her bank 
statements. Meyado  maintained  they should be disclosed. It said Ms C had complained  in 
2016 yet it was over three years later that shed first revealed the highly material fact that 
shed received a substantial  payment. Complainants must  provide all relevant information to 
avoid misleading  us and risking an unfair decision. Meyado had already had an adverse 
decision based on incomplete evidence. Ms C was facing  considerable financial pressure  
when she transferred. Her bank statements are materially relevant  evidence as to her actual 
financial circumstances, the amount  of the payment and how it was used. Meyado cant  
properly address those  issues  without disclosure  of the relevant evidence.
Meyados position  is that Ms Cs decision to transfer was fundamentally influenced by the 
incentive payment  and no advice against would have prevented  the transfer. Concluding that 
the transfer would have  been made irrespective of advice to the contrary  is irrational, given 
the evidence.  Meyado  said it had been and remains deprived of material evidence  and has 
been/is prejudiced. And Ms C wasnt able to provide clear  answers  to the questions  wed 
asked. Theres a real issue as to the credibility and/or reliability of her evidence.
In summary  my provisional findings were  (using the same or similar headings): 
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
Regardless of anyone elses part in the matter, HDIFA had to follow  the rules set out by the
regulator including the overarching Principles for Business. Principles 1 (integrity),  2 (due
skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers  interests) and 9 {reasonable care) were  particularly
relevant.
Ref: DRN27252974I referred to COBS 9.2.1R, 9.2.2R  and 2.1.1R. HDIFA couldnt fulfil those  duties without
considering the overall transaction, including the investment strategy  the SIPP was taken out
to facilitate.
I referred to the alert issued by the then regulator  in January 2013. It post dated HDIFAs
advice. But it didnt  follow any changes in legislation or the COBS  rules. It was issued  
because it had come to the regulators  attention that some firms were adopting advice 
models which didnt  comply with the existing obligations. I quoted most of the alert. It made  it
clear it wasnt  open to HDIFA to advice  just on the SIPP itself. The advice had to take into
account the overall investment strategy.
HDIFA knew, from the outset, that Ms Cs intention was to invest in an unregulated 
investment  White  Sands. HDIFA had to understand the risks associated with the proposed 
investment. The referral to HDIFA may have come  from another  regulated firm (and not an 
unregulated introducer). And HDIFA may have made it clear it wasnt  advising on the 
underlying investment. But it wasnt open to HDIFA to advise on that basis. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the investment, even if Ms C 
accepted that HDIFAs advice  would  be limited.
what would  suitable  advice have been?
I referred to COBS 19.1.6G.  HDIFA should have started  by assuming the transfer  wouldnt 
be suitable. And further examination would  have confirmed  that. I referred to the reasons the 
adjudicator had given. The assessment of Ms C as a reasonably adventurous investor 
wasnt credible or reliable. HDIFA should  have explored with Ms C the level of risk she was 
apparently willing to take and the consequences that could result.  This was her only pension 
provision  shed  only just joined a new employers pension scheme. The benefits she was 
transferring were an important source  of retirement  income. Measures were  in place to 
address the deficit. The transfer wasnt driven by concerns about the viability  of that scheme. 
The transfer value  analysis showed  a critical yield of 8.4%  to match  the value of the benefits 
being given up. That didnt take into account the SIPP charges. So the actual figure would 
have been higher. It wasnt  reasonable to say there was a realistic prospect of higher 
benefits in retirement.  Higher tax free cash might be available if she transferred. But that was 
based on assumed  growth rates which werent  reasonable.
The risks associated with White Sands were considerable. The regulator  had said these 
types of unregulated investments are high risk and unlikely to be suitable for the vast 
majority of consumers. And then usually only for a proportion of an investors funds. The 
generic warnings that Meyado gave  werent  sufficient.
Recommending that Ms C transfer to invest in a high risk, unregulated  scheme  wasnt  
suitable. And it seemed Meyado doesnt  argue that its advice was suitable.  Its position is, 
due to the involvement of others,  it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Ms Cs 
losses in full.
I could see the argument that Ms Cs losses stemmed mainly from the failure of the 
investment. And that, as the funds were held initially in cash,  no loss had resulted by the
time HDIFAs role ceased. But that ignored  the bigger picture. HDIFA knew that, ultimately,
Ref: DRN27252975Ms C proposed to invest in an unregulated  investment.  She was only able to invest  because
HDIFA had recommended the transfer and facilitated it. Whatever shed signed didnt 
absolve HDIFA of its responsibility to consider  the investment too.
what would  Ms C have done  if HDIFA had given her suitable advice?
I accepted, based on what Ms C had been told by others and before she got any advice from
HDIFA, she was considering transferring. But she hadnt made a firm decision. She had to 
re-sign the transfer out acceptance form after shed had HDIFAs advice. Shed been 
referred to HDIFA for specialist pension transfer  advice and so she had an opportunity to
reconsider with the benefit of expert advice. I didnt  think shed have simply ignored such 
advice. I thought shed have placed  significant weight on what  HDIFA said. And, if shed 
been given suitable advice - that she shouldnt transfer - that would have made her think  
again. Instead HDIFAs unsuitable  advice  endorsed  what shed been told by others about the
benefits of transferring. So she had no reason not to go ahead.
HDIFA didnt consider the investment.  It didnt  think it had to. But it was part and parcel  of
the overall transaction. HDIFA should have considered it. That would have entailed spelling
out the risks and which would have countered any overly positive views expressed by the 
unregulated introducer. But, as things  stood, no one explained to Ms C how risky the 
investment was.  If HDIFA had done  that, and told Ms C it didnt recommend she transfer, 
that would  have given her pause for thought  as to whether it was advisable to do what  she 
was planning.  On balance, I thought shed have reconsidered.
If she hadnt, HDIFA may not have been prepared  to process  the transfer on an insistent
client basis. Id add here that, even if HDIFA had been willing  to do so, it would  have meant
discussions with Ms C to explore and record her reasons why she was prepared to proceed 
and take a high degree  of risk despite  expert  advice to the contrary. I think that would have
concentrated her mind  too.
But Ms C did receive a substantial payment - £16,700  in return  for investing  in White 
Sands. I recognised  that most people, if told that sort of sum is on offer, would naturally wish 
to access it. I agreed it was a motivating factor in her decision to go ahead.  
Ms C admits  she needed the money. It allowed her to pay off some  debts, support herself  
and her children and help her mother. Shes explained that her financial  position deteriorated 
after her husband  died. So I can see that the payment would have  been  very useful. But I 
dont see that Ms Cs financial situation  was desperate. She was working and earning about 
£30,000 a year. She wasnt looking to raise  money,  whether  by releasing money from her 
pension fund or otherwise. It seems she was contacted  by the unregulated  introducer who 
made her aware of the possibility  of a tax free cash payment. Im not sure,  if shed been told 
that she risked losing her entire pension fund, shed  still have been prepared to go ahead, 
just to secure the incentive payment.
I didnt agree Ms C had concealed the payment.  It seems  she understood it was money she
was entitled to as part of her tax free cash and which  would be paid out of her pension  fund.
Shes explained shes not an expert about investments or pensions.  It seems she simply
thought the payment was a portion  of her pension fund she was entitled to take as cash. I 
didnt think shed have  seen it as something  which might  be controversial and which she 
needed to keep quiet about. When we asked Ms C about it she provided the details wed 
requested, including a copy of her bank statement showing receipt  of the payment as well as 
other savings account statements too. She also responded to our further  enquiries.
Ref: DRN27252976the role of Firm A and others
Id borne in mind DISP 3.6.1R, DISP 3.5.2R,  DISP 3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3R. It wasnt  the
case that I hadnt considered the involvement of others. But that didnt mean a conclusion
that, despite other entities involvement, the complaint should be upheld  against the party  
complained of and that party should  meet the consumers  losses  in full, must be unfair  or 
unreasonable.
I agreed with Meyado  that liability and causation  is determined  by factual and legal
considerations rather than which party a complainant  may think  is responsible. HDIFA wasnt 
the only party involved. Firm A was a regulated business too. As is the SIPP  provider. An 
unregulated introducer was involved too. I hadnt ignored the parts  played  by others. I 
recognised that what other parties  did (or didnt  do) may have impacted on what happened 
and Ms Cs losses. 
Ms C had been unable to say that HDIFA was the culpable party. Instead shed said HDIFA, 
the introducer and Firm A were all involved.  But liability and causation  is determined by 
factual and legal considerations  rather than which party a complainant may think is 
responsible and names as the respondent. A complainant may not recall who they dealt  
with, which  party did what,  and what a particular entitys regulatory and legal obligations 
were. I didnt  think any inability on Ms Cs part to recall, some years later, exactly who did 
what, cast doubt  on her credibility. 
I acknowledged HDIFA wasnt the only party involved. Firm A was a regulated business too. 
As is the SIPP provider.  I recognised that what other  parties did (or didnt do) may have  
impacted on what happened  and Ms Cs losses. I had considered what  Firm A and the 
unregulated introducer had done.  
Ms C had been referred to Firm A for regulated advice. But Firm A couldnt  assist and 
introduced Ms C to HDIFA. Firm A may have undertaken some  initial  information  gathering.  
But, from what Id seen,  Firm A didnt give any advice.
HDIFA did give advice. It was up to HDIFA to give suitable advice. That advice should have 
taken into account  the proposed underlying investment. It wasnt  open to HDIFA to seek  to 
limit its advice to the SIPP wrapper and not consider the expected  underlying here a high 
risk, illiquid unregulated  fund, the type of investment mentioned in the regulators alert. 
We hadnt simply relied on what Firm A had said and disregarded similar  evidence  from 
Meyado. As Id said,  it wasnt clear that Firm A had given advice. But theres  no dispute that 
HDIFA did give advice, which it sought  to limit. But HDIFA couldnt  restrict its advice, even  if 
it had agreed that with Ms C on the basis shed  be getting investment  advice  from Firm A. 
Even if another party did advise Ms C to invest in White  Sands she wouldnt have been able 
to invest as she did if she hadnt have transferred to a SIPP  on advice from HDIFA. The 
same is true for any part played  by Firm A in arranging the White Sands investment  but for 
the transfer Ms C wouldnt have  been  able to make that investment. Her losses  couldnt 
have been avoided or reduced if Ms C had reviewed her investment regularly  White  Sands 
had been illiquid throughout. 
Meyados legal representative has suggested that losses could have been avoided  or 
reduced if Ms C had reviewed her investment and her investment strategy generally. But my 
Ref: DRN27252977understanding is that once shed made the investment she wouldnt have been able to have 
disinvested  I think its been illiquid throughout. I dont think HDIFA can avoid responsibility 
for its unsuitable advice  by saying that another party should have reviewed things later and 
told Ms C that she should invest  differently.  
It isnt the case that HDIFA  would  be held liable for any and all future losses. It will depend 
on the circumstances. For example, the situation might  be different if Ms C, having 
transferred to a SIPP on HDIFAs advice,  made  a particular investment sometime  later and 
without HDIFAs knowledge  or input. Or if HDIFA believed the money  was going to be 
invested very differently  for example in more conventional and lower risk funds. But here 
HDIFA knew the purpose of the transfer  to the SIPP was to invest in White Sands. HDIFA is 
responsible for losses flowing from its unsuitable advice.
HDIFA wasnt simply arranging the transfer. HDIFA advised Ms C to transfer.  My starting 
point as to causation as that HDIFA gave unsuitable advice. So it was responsible  for the 
losses Ms C had suffered  in transferring to the SIPP and investing  in White Sands. That 
wasnt wrong in law or irrational but reflected the facts of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part
in the matter. It could  have prevented  the transfer.  Instead HDIFA facilitated it, having given 
unsuitable advice  that Ms C transfer.
If Meyado considered  other parties were also to blame and should share liability, it was 
presumably open to Meyado to pursue them. I didnt see that Ms C, if her losses were  met in 
full by Meyado,  would object to assigning her rights to Meyado. I set out how Meyado should 
redress Ms C.
comments in response  to my provisional  decision
Ms Cs representative confirmed Ms C agreed, in principle, with my provisional decision.  
Shed also agree to an assignment provided her losses were fully compensated and that 
Meyado met the costs  of drafting the assignment and Ms Cs legal costs  in receiving advice 
on the assignment. 
Meyado didnt accept  my provisional decision. It continued to rely on the arguments it had 
previously raised. In particular it drew  attention  to the following:
Ms Cs decision  to open a SIPP and transfer the value of her deferred  pension 
benefits was made  with the assistance  and/or  advice of a number of entities, not just 
HDIFA. Id ignored  the involvement  of other entities  although it was a matter of fact 
that Firm A was materially involved.  That cant be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstanced but was irrational. 
Wed excluded relevant matters.  In particular wed been unwilling to look into the 
relationship between Ms C and Firm A. That firm was materially involved in advising 
her to invest in the illiquid investments at the heart of the complaint and (once the 
SIPP was open) was acknowledged as the firm which was to advise on her planned 
investments. It cant be right that all the circumstances can be taken to exclude the 
actions of other parties Ms C interacted with as part of her decision making. 
Logically that suggests that were  multiple firms (regulated or otherwise and Firm A is 
regulated) well disregard  the involvement  of all but the one at which  the complaint is 
directed and hold that firm accountable  for all failings,  irrespective of where 
responsibility should properly lie. Liability  will depend on who a complainant  (many  of 
whom wont have  a true understanding  of the roles and responsibility  of those theyve 
dealt with) happens to name  as the respondent to the complaint. 
Ref: DRN27252978That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Key documents and evidence from Firm A 
havent been made available  and had impaired Meyados  ability to defend itself. Our 
enquiries are at best incomplete. 
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation, based on the assumption that, 
without HDIFAs involvement, the investments and Ms Cs losses, wouldnt have 
happened. That oversimplified the true position  and failed  to properly take into 
account Ms Cs decision to invest and the fact that it is the investments, not the SIPP,  
which are the primary cause of her losses. 
Wed assumed Ms C was a wholly inexperienced retail investor. Thats  at odds with 
how she described herself and her investment  profile. Its irrational and ignores 
relevant evidence in favour of assumptions. 
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision.
Ms C had already  decided to transfer  and signed  a transfer request months  before 
HDIFA was involved. Thats  powerful  evidence  of her determination to transfer,  a 
decision which cant possibly have been influenced by HDIFA.
Ms C had received  a very substantial incentive payment (£16,700 on 30 November 
2012). As a matter of fact she was in desperate need of those funds. Its unfounded  
speculation to dismiss the facts  and the incentive payment to conclude she wouldnt  
have proceeded  in any event.  Thats irrational in circumstances where shed been 
warned against  investing  in unregulated investments but proceeded nevertheless 
and where she stood to benefit  from a desperately  needed  incentive  payment. The 
weight of evidence  is that shed have  invested  as she did, come what  may. 
As to causation its accepted that HDIFA didnt  advice on the investment. Its difficult, 
if not impossible, to ascribe  knowledge  of, or blame  for, any investment decision  
made after HDIFAs involvement had ceased  and where  HDIFA didnt (and couldnt) 
have any influence  or control  over the ultimate  investments. 
It was conjecture (and at odds with the evidence which points  to her determination 
not to heed warnings)  to say, if Ms C had been advised not to transfer, that would 
have made her think again.  And it ignores the reality  of the situation  she ultimately 
invested in a product in which HDIFA had no involvement. 
Id disregarded  Ms Cs own assessment of her investment  experience and attitude to 
risk. Thats  a speculative approach  which  isnt grounded in fact. 
As Id acknowledged the regulators alert was dealing with a situation where an 
adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer - so where the adviser was 
the first and only interface with the client. HDIFAs situation  was different. I hadnt  
faced up to that key different or attempted to grapple with its significance.  
In conclusion my (provisional) decision was irrational, unfair and unreasonable.  
Nothing should detract from Meyados  sympathy for Ms C. Shed suffered losses  as a 
result of investing (on the advice of others, not HDIFA)  in investments which  had 
failed. But Id failed  to properly appreciate causation and reliance issues  and, on the 
basis of the information Id considered  or chosen  not to consider  the decision was 
unfair and unjust in apportioning the entire  responsibility for Ms Cs losses on 
Meyado and so doesnt correspond with our obligations  under the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
Ms Cs representative said Meyado hadnt  raised any new evidence  or arguments. Firm As 
position had repeatedly been made clear. Firm A couldnt advise and referred  Ms C to 
HDIFA. It wasnt the case that Firm As role hadnt  been investigated nor had relevant 
matters been  excluded. Advice  from Firm A didnt  exist and couldnt  be considered. The 
SIPP was only a wrapper.  The advice to transfer must include advice on the investments to 
Ref: DRN27252979be held in the SIPP. HDIFA admits it didnt give that advice. It cant have properly advised 
Ms C as to the suitability  of the transfer. She wasnt desperate for the payment. The money 
had been spent gradually over time.  She was a retail  client with no investment experience. 
She wouldnt have  paid for HDIFAs advice if she wasnt going to heed  it. If HDIFA had 
advised her against  transferring she wouldnt have gone ahead.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Meyados further comments are new. Ive already addressed some of them in 
my provisional decision. It follows that I dont have much to add to what Ive said previously. 
Meyados main point  remains Firm As involvement.  I dont agree we havent made sufficient 
enquiries about that. Or that Ive misunderstood or failed to take proper account of the part 
played by Firm A, or indeed others.  
I dont see theres much  dispute  about what Firm A did. Ms C had been  referred  to Firm A 
because she was interested in investing  in White  Sands using her pension  fund. The idea 
seems to have come  from an unregulated introducer whod contacted  Ms C. She appears to 
have had some discussions with that business.  She may also have had some initial 
discussions with Firm A about  the investment. But she had deferred benefits  in a former 
employers final salary  pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and introduced  
her to HDIFA.
HDIFAs position is that it was only advising Ms C on the transfer and the SIPP itself. But Ive 
explained why HDIFA couldnt advise on that limited basis and that, in considering the 
suitability of the transfer and the SIPP, HDIFA had to consider the proposed underlying  
investment too. Thats the position  even though  the introduction had come from a regulated  
firm  although here HDIFA knew that an unregulated introducer  was involved too. 
HDIFA couldnt seek to restrict its regulatory  obligations to Ms C by agreement with her. I 
dont think it matters that the transfer value was initially held in cash. HDIFA knew  from the 
outset that Ms C was planning to invest in an unregulated  investment.  
The investment wasnt  suitable for Ms C. Ive explained elsewhere why I dont regard the 
assessment of her attitude to risk as credible. I havent seen anything to indicate that Ms C 
had any real investment  experience, much  less in specialist, higher risk unregulated 
products. Ive also explained why, in my view,  HDIFA should have advised her against  
transferring. 
Ive considered very carefully what Ms C would have done if shed have been given suitable 
advice. I dont agree, for the reasons  Ive explained, that shed have proceeded anyway. I 
agree the availability of a substantial incentive  payment  would have been attractive to Ms C 
 although I dont see she was desperate for the money. On balance, Im not convinced it 
was determinative  and that shed have  gone  ahead anyway and if HDIFA had advised her 
against. 
Its possible Ms C could  face an unauthorised payment charge in respect  of the incentive  
payment she received.  But whether  that will be the case  and, if so, what amount, is 
uncertain. So I think it fairest to say Meyado can take into account the full amount of the
Ref: DRN272529710payment Ms C received and give her an undertaking to meet  any unauthorised payment
charge she may in the future have to pay.
As to any assignment of rights,  if Meyado  wants Ms C to sign an agreement, it will need  to 
draft it at its own cost.  Id expect the terms to be clear and straightforward and obviate the 
need for Ms C to seek  legal advice. On that basis, and as its not certain  that Meyado will 
seek an assignment from Ms C, I havent  included  any directions about  it.
All in all my views remain as Ive previously indicated. I uphold  the complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Ms C as far as possible in the position shed be in now 
if HDIFA had given  her suitable  advice. I think  Ms C would have retained  her deferred 
benefits in her employers scheme.   The redress Ive set out below essentially requires 
Meyado to compare  what Ms C would have had with what  shes  got in her SIPP.  
Ms C wouldnt have  a SIPP but for Meyados unsuitable advice. I understand the SIPP is 
now closed. On that basis Im not making  any award  for future  SIPP fees. The redress  Ive 
set out below will need to be paid into a suitable alternative pension  arrangement  or direct  to 
Ms C. In that case, and as Ive said below,  an adjustment for tax should be made.
Meyado may require,  if Ms C is redressed in full, that she provides an undertaking to pay 
Meyado any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Meyado will need  to meet any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking. 
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as 
at the date of my final decision, and using  the most recent financial assumptions  published  
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Ms Cs acceptance  of the decision. 
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Ms Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension 
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance. If payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Ms C as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
For example, if Ms C wouldnt yet have  taken a tax-free cash  sum from the employers  
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
Ref: DRN272529711according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation must where possible be paid to Ms C within 90 days of the date Meyado 
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added  
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to 
pay Ms C this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the incentive 
payment Ms C received. It should do this by applying a withdrawal of £16,700 from the 
calculation on the date Ms C actually received the lump sum (30 November 2012).  
Meyado should  also pay Ms C £250  for the worry and upset this matter has caused  her. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd must redress  Ms C 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2725297