K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a caravan he acquired by way of a hire purchase (HP) agreement  with 
Black Horse  Limited (Black  Horse) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In June 2017 Mr L acquired  a 2015  model caravan from a company that I will call R. This 
acquisition was financed  by way of an HP agreement with Black Horse with the sum of 
£26,247.95 being repayable over 84 months at a monthly cost of £428.69  commencing 
July 2017.
In May 2018  Mr L says that he discovered  several  areas of damp in the caravan and so 
contacted black  Horse to complain.
In June 2018 Black Horse  wrote to Mr L to say that his complaint had been passed to R to 
be dealt with.
In early July 2018  Black  Horse wrote to Mr L to confirm that it was prepared to pay him £350 
for the trouble and upset  he had suffered due to the damp. It confirmed that a temporary 
repair had been  done by R and that R would arrange for a permanent repair to be done  by 
the manufacturer in August 2018. It also said that it would  arrange for an inspection  of the 
caravan to be carried out after a permanent repair had been done by the manufacturer.
Unhappy with Black  Horses response  to his complaint, Mr L referred it to our service.
In late July 2018, and after Mr L had referred  his complaint to our service, Black Horse  wrote 
to him to confirm that it was now prepared to pay him £1,127.85,  this being £550 for the 
trouble and upset  he had suffered due to the damp and £577.85 for his loss of use of the 
caravan (41 days x £14.0939).
In August  2018  the caravan was collected by R for a permanent repair to be done by the 
manufacturer.
In late September  2018 Mr L contacted us to say that the caravan had yet to be returned to 
him and that he had doubts that a permanent repair had been  done.
In early October 2018 Mr L contacted  us to say that R wanted him to collect the caravan but 
it wasnt prepared to tell him what repairs, if any, had been done. He reiterated  his previous 
doubts that a permanent  repair had been  done  and that he wanted, as Black  Horse said it 
would arrange,  an inspection of the caravan  to be carried out.
In November 2018 Mr L contacted us to say that he had gone  to inspect the caravan himself 
and it was still damp. However,  he had arranged to remove  it from Rs premises  and place it 
in storage.
In mid January  2019 Mr Ls complaint was allocated to one of our investigators.  She said 
that before she could  fairly conclude what Black  Horse should have to do, if anything, an 
inspection of the caravan (by Black  Horse or one of its agents) was appropriate.
Ref: DRN25997272In mid February 2019 an inspection of the caravan was done.
In mid March 2019, and having  had sight  of the mid February 2019 inspection report 
showing damp was still present  beyond an acceptable level,  the investigator wrote  to both 
parties to confirm that she was upholding the complaint and what  Black  Horse should have 
to do to fairly  compensate Mr L.
In mid April 2019, and after Black  Horse had confirmed to our service that Mr Ls HP 
agreement included £4,325 negative equity in respect of a previous caravan, the investigator  
wrote to both parties to say that she was still upholding  the complaint but that Black Horse  
should:
cancel Mr Ls agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the caravan  from Mr L at no further cost to him
refund  to Mr L all payments he had made  under the agreement since May 2018
pay Mr L interest on the above  refunds  at 8% simple per annum, from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement
refund  to Mr L the storage  costs incurred by him (or which he will reasonably incur  
going forward) since  May 2018
refund  to Mr L insurance  costs incurred by him (or which he will reasonably incur 
going forward) since  May 2018
refund  to Mr L any costs incurred  by him in having the motor  mover removed
pay Mr L £700 for the trouble and upset this whole matter had caused him
However she added that Black Horse:
was entitled  to recover from Mr L a negative equity sum of £4,325
it should collect this sum from Mr L  as it had agreed it was prepared to do  over 
the remaining  HP agreement term meaning  that Mr L would receive the 
compensation recommended (if accepted) gross  rather  than net
Both parties  accepted the investigators view, albeit Mr L did so reluctantly.
In mid May 2019 Black Horse collected the caravan  from Mr L and paid him, by way of bank 
transfer, £6,811.46.  This sum of £6,811.46 was broken down as follows:
£5,144.28  (12 monthly payments  of £428.69)
£700 for the trouble  and upset caused
£500 for storage costs (4 quarterly payments of £125)
£285.50 for insurance costs
£0 for the motor  mover removal costs (as confirmed by Mr L)
£181.68 interest at 8%
As well as confirming it had made the above payment, Black  Horse also confirmed to Mr L 
(in writing)  that:
The remaining balance  of your agreement is £4,325 for the negative  equity. Please contact 
our collections  teamto  make arrangements to settle the remaining balance. Once the 
balance is settled we will arrange  for your credit file to be updated accordingly.
Ref: DRN25997273In late May 2019 Mr L contacted us to say that on receipt of the above letter he had 
contacted Black Horse  by telephone and was told by it that he owed nothing  further. And on 
being told this he had used some, or all, of the £6,811.46 paid to him to acquire another 
caravan.
Black Horse  considered Mr Ls further submission that he had been told by it, after receiving 
its mid May 2019  letter, that he had nothing  further  to pay. And it agreed that it had told him 
this was the case. However, it concluded  that although it was only fair that it should pay Mr L 
£100 for this incorrect information, it wouldnt be fair for it to have to write this sum off.
Mr L wasnt happy with Black Horses offer of a further £100 compensation. He also 
concluded, having reflected on the matter,  that Black Horses payment of £6,811.46 wasnt  
sufficient.
Because Mr L wasnt happy with Black Horses offer of a further  £100,  and the payment 
made to him of £6,811.46,  his complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January  2020.  In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr L has made detailed  submissions to our service. And whilst I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail,  I can confirm Ive read them all and taken them all into account  when  making 
my decision.  So if I dont mention a particular point,  or piece of evidence,  it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference  it to explain my 
decision. I hope Mr L doesnt take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection  of the informal  
nature of our service.
Black Horse  accepts that the caravan was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr L acquired it. 
And having considered what the parties  have said and provided in this respect,  in particular 
the content of the inspection report commissioned shortly after Mr L first raised  his compliant 
with Black Horse and which was commissioned less than year after Mr L acquired it, I agree.
Having concluded  that the caravan was of unsatisfactory  quality at the time Mr L acquired it, 
what I now need to decide is whether Black Horse  should have to pay him more than the 
£6,811.46 it already has.
Now I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed,  but Im not persuaded Black Horse needs  to pay 
him anything  further in this respect. I say this because having received £6,811.46 Mr L has 
had all the payments  he made (whilst he was unable to use the caravan) returned (together 
with interest), all other costs incurred  by him (and for which  he received no or little benefit) 
refunded and a payment of £700  for any trouble  and upset.
I will now turn to the more  recent issue, this being that Mr L understood he owed 
Black Horse  nothing further under his agreement  and so used some,  or all, of the £6,811.46 
paid to him to acquire another caravan.
Ref: DRN25997274Mr L says he was unaware that his HP agreement  included  negative equity in respect of a 
caravan he had part exchanged for the one subject to this complaint and which  itself was 
subject to an HP agreement. However,  Im not persuaded by Mr Ls submission in this 
respect.
Now I appreciate I cant say for certain  what was and wasnt  discussed between Mr L and R. 
But the various paperwork that has been  provided would suggest that a conversation around 
negative equity took place. 
In my view Mr L wouldnt have  agreed  to trade in his old caravan for the caravan subject to 
this complaint if he wasnt aware what R was prepared  to pay for it (£11,325).  Im also of the 
view that although  Mr L wouldnt  have known precisely what he owed under his HP 
agreement in respect of his old caravan,  he would  or should  have known  it was more than 
£11,325 (given the original sum advanced and the payments he had made against it). 
Its also my understanding that Mr L would or should have known that what was being  
advanced under the HP agreement subject to this complaint was more  than the cost of the 
caravan. And that he wouldnt have proceeded with the HP agreement  without fully 
understanding what this difference was in respect  of, it being in respect of negative  equity. 
So I think Mr L would have understood that in acquiring the caravan subject to this 
complaint, and part exchanging his old caravan, negative equity accrued which was rolled up 
in the HP agreement  subject to this complaint.
Black Horse  says it did advise Mr L by telephone in late May 2019 that he owed  it nothing  
further, when  he still owed it £4,325. I also accept that Mr L used the money Black Horse  
had paid him to finance, or part finance,  a further  caravan. 
But given what the investigator told Mr L on more than one occasion in April 2019, and given 
what Black  Horse had told Mr L in writing in mid May 2019, I think  that it could  and should  
have been apparent to him that the information he had been  given in late May 2019 over the 
phone by Black Horse was incorrect, or might be incorrect. And that he should have held off 
using the sum he had been paid by Black Horse, whether  in full or in part, to finance a new 
caravan until after he had made  further enquiries of Black Horse and/or our service, enquires 
which in my view would have resulted in Mr L being  advised that he still owed £4,325  in 
negative equity. So because  of my view in this respect, I think its entirely fair and 
reasonable that Black Horse should  be able to recover the sum of £4,325 from Mr L.
But I appreciate  that Mr L might now find repaying  this sum difficult. So I think  that what  
Black Horse  should have  to do is accept this sum over a period of time, interest free, on 
terms that are affordable  to Mr L. And that it registers no adverse  information in respect of 
any arrangement reached in this respect with credit reference agencies.
Although Ive found that Black Horse  is entitled to recover the sum of £4,325 from Mr L, I 
accept that he would have suffered some disappointment  on realising he had been given 
incorrect information over the phone in late May 2019. But taking everything into account, I 
think that the £100 already offered by Black  Horse represents fair and reasonable 
compensation in this respect.
Ref: DRN25997275I then went on to outline what I felt Black  Horse should have to do to fairly  and reasonably  
compensate Mr L.
Black Horse  responded  to say it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add.
Mr L telephoned our service, on more than one occasion, to say that he didnt accept my 
provisional decision. As well as reiterating  a number of his previous  submissions  he said, in 
summary:
he had been  inadequately compensated for being without the caravan subject to this 
complaint for a substantial period of time
he had been  inadequately compensated for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered
he had been  inadequately compensated for other costs he incurred
he has paid £10,500 towards a caravan which wasnt fit for purpose
there is no reference to negative  equity on the HP agreement
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was in May 2018 that Mr L says he discovered several areas  of damp  in the caravan and 
in May 2019  that Black  Horse  paid him £6,811.46. Given that £5,144.28 of this sum was the 
refund of 12 instalments made by Mr L of £428.69 against the HP agreement  Im satisfied 
that he has been fairly and reasonably compensated for the period he was without  the 
caravan, or the use of it.
I dont underestimate  the distress  and inconvenience this matter  has caused Mr L. But I 
remain satisfied that £700 was a fair and reasonable sum for Black Horse to have  paid him 
in this respect.
I cant see any costs that Mr L might have incurred  that he should be compensated for over 
and above the sum of £785.50 already  paid to him by Black Horse.
I accept that Mr L made 23 monthly  payments of £428.69 against the HP agreement, 
equating to £9,859.87. But 12 of these (£5,144.28)  have been  refunded  and the other  11 
(£4,715.59) were for the months  Mr L had full and uninterrupted use of the caravan. So I see 
no good grounds to direct  Black Horse to refund  anything further in this respect.
Ref: DRN25997276I accept that the HP agreement makes no reference to negative  equity being carried  over 
from a previous HP agreement. But I never said that it did. What  I said was that Mr L could 
and should have realised,  for a number of reasons, that this was the case. And I still hold 
this view.
The HP agreement  was for £26,247.95. This figure can be broken down as follows:
cost of the caravan subject to this complaint £20,995.00
part exchange allowance for Mr Ls previous caravan (£11,325.00)
settlement of the HP agreement  in respect Mr Ls 
previous caravan £16,577.95
total £26,247.95
And the negative equity  sum can be broken down as follows:
part exchange allowance for Mr Ls previous caravan (£11,325.00)
settlement of the HP agreement  in respect of Mr Ls 
previous caravan £16,577.95
total £5,252.95*
* reduced to £4,325 after a number  of adjustments to the account
Now having had regard  to the various paperwork that has been  submitted its my view the 
above could and should have been  apparent to Mr L. Indeed, if Mr L was unaware  that he 
was carrying over negative equity from his previous HP agreement  to the HP agreement 
subject to this complaint  Im somewhat surprised he didnt question why he needed to 
borrow over £5,000 more  than the cost of the caravan.
I also remain of the view that despite  what Mr L submits some sort of discussion around 
negative equity would have, on the balance of probabilities, taken place.  I say this because  
amongst other things  R would have been  required  to make enquiries  of both Mr L and 
Black Horse  as to the status of Mr Ls previous  HP agreement before agreeing to the new 
one.
For the sake of completeness I would add that Im aware that Mr Ls order form doesnt  
contain two figures  present on the copy provided  by Black Horse. However, I dont think  that 
this, in itself, changes things. But in any event,  I find Black  Horses submission that Mr L 
would have been aware of these two figures because they were  added to its copy of the 
order form by R when  he collected the caravan, and he didnt have his copy with him, to be 
both plausible  and persuasive.
So in summary,  and having  considered Mr Ls latest  telephone calls to our service very 
carefully, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional findings  and I now confirm them as 
final.
Ref: DRN25997277my final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited,  having already paid Mr L £6,811.46, must (to 
the extent it hasnt already done so):
pay him a further £100 for the incorrect information it gave about his outstanding 
liability 
engage with him with the view of arranging a repayment plan for the negative equity 
sum of £4,325  on interest free terms over a period  of time that makes repayment  of 
the same  affordable
not register any adverse information in respect of any payment arrangement that its 
able to come to with Mr L in respect  of the £4,325 negative  equity  sum
My final decision represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure.  
Mr L doesnt have  to accept my decision,  and if he doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue 
legal action against Black  Horse  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2599727