K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained about CIS General Insurance Limited because when he asked  it to move 
his contents policy to his new home the price  increased.
background
Mr F called CIS to advise  he was moving  into rented accommodation and he asked to take 
his contents policy with him. The advisor completed the address change but explained the 
policy amendment to remove the buildings cover would have to be done separately. Mr F 
then received documents regarding his new address  with a price increase of nearly £350. He 
found cover  elsewhere  and called CIS to cancel.
When Mr F called CIS to cancel he felt the advisor  was arrogant. Mr F was unhappy with the 
attitude  that CIS could basically charge what it wanted. Mr F complained  to this service. 
CIS then wrote  to Mr F and apologised for the initial price increase, but it explained  that once 
the second amendment came  through there  was only a price difference of £2.00  from the 
original price of contents cover. CIS also said its advisor hadnt,  in its view, been  arrogant or 
rude to Mr F. Mr F said hed never received any second set of documents and felt the whole 
scenario had been contrived to deal with his complaint.
Our adjudicator noted the second set of documents  that CIS had presented showing the 
actual price change;  a change which he didnt think was unreasonable.  He also listened to 
the calls Mr F had made. He noted  that in the first call Mr F had been told there was a two 
stage process and he didnt think the attitude  of the second advisor  had been  poor.
Mr F said he had never received a second set of documents. And, which  he felt was more  
telling, CIS hadnt  tried to explain or placate  him at all regarding  the second price  until he 
had complained to this service. He said his new cover for contents was costing him less than 
half the price each month of CISs revised premium.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service considers individual complaints. We are not the regulator and dont exist to 
ensure that businesses  trade transparently and honestly, that is the role of the regulator.  Nor 
can we force a business to change the way it does business  including how it chooses  to 
price the cover it offers. As long as it executes  its power to set prices fairly   which  broadly  
speaking means  it treats  everyone in a similar situation the same   we wont interfere with its 
pricing choices or make  it change them.
Insurance is based on risk and all insurers view risk differently. That means that there  are a 
range of prices  available on the market at any one time. Insurers  also sometimes offer 
introductory rates. Which  may explain why Mr F has seen  such  a difference with his current  
new cover.
Im satisfied that CIS priced  its cover  fairly;  it doesnt seem to have singled Mr F out or 
treated him differently  from others. 
I appreciate that the initial price, before the buildings cover was removed, came as a shock  
to Mr F. But he was told during the call that the current price still included the buildings cover 
Ref: DRN22762132and the documents he received do reflect this. So I think Mr F, even  having  forgotten what  
he was told in the call about the two stage process  and/or price, should reasonably have 
known the documents he received didnt show the final price  CIS was likely to offer him for 
the cover  hed requested. 
I dont know why Mr F didnt receive the second set of documents  but Im satisfied  that CIS 
hasnt contrived this scenario. Mr F was advised  the change  couldnt be done  all at once and 
that policy documents would initially be sent to him showing the change of address only (and 
how that affected the price).
I dont doubt the conversation Mr F had, when  he rang to cancel the policy  and challenge the 
price, was frustrating. But Im satisfied that the advisor acted professionally.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against CIS General Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2276213