K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading as TSB at the time) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. Mr D opened the credit card account in 
1999. Due to the time thats passed, Lloyds hasnt been able to show  exactly  when the PPI 
policy was added to the account.  It may have  been taken out when  the card was set up, but 
we do know that the policy was up and running  by January 2000 at the latest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
 Lloyds no longer has a copy of the application form for the PPI. I dont think  thats 
unreasonable, given that the policy was sold such a long time ago. But its provided a 
copy of the type of application form that was in use when  Mr D opened the credit card 
account. It includes a box to tick if the applicant wished to take PPI. And from other  
application forms weve  seen, and what we know of its selling practices  in 1999 and 
2000, I think it more  likely than not that Lloyds made Mr D aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it  although  I can understand why he may no longer 
remember this.
 Lloyds no longer has any record of how the policy was sold, and Mr D says he cant 
remember. Its possible that Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Mr D, in which case it had 
a responsibility to make  sure that it was suitable for him. But even if Lloyds did 
recommend the policy to Mr D, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Im satisfied  that Mr D chose to take out the policy.  So he 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  Hes told us he was self-employed  when he 
took the policy out. But although  some PPI policies contained  conditions  which  made 
them unsuitable  for self-employed people, the policies in use with this type of credit 
card didnt. And Mr D wasnt affected by any of the other  exclusions or limitations. 
 As Mr D was self-employed,  he wouldnt have been entitled  to any sick pay. And hes 
told us he didnt have any other  means  he could have  used to make his credit  card 
repayments if hed been unable to work.  So I think the policy could have  been  useful to 
him.
Ref: DRN20850692 Ive also borne in mind that the policy was competitively priced, and I havent seen 
anything to suggest it was affordable. So I think its unlikely Mr D would  have made a 
different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still 
have taken out the policy.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2085069