K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process his chargeback  request.
background
During October and November 2017,  Mr S used  his debit card to make multiple payments to 
a company which Ill call B, the total value  of which was around £3,500. In August 2018, he 
asked Santander  to refund the payments under the chargeback scheme. He said that the 
service provided by B differed from what he paid for and that hed been unable to resolve his 
complaint with B direct. Santander declined the chargeback request, saying that Mr Ss claim 
wasnt covered by the dispute resolution process.
In October  2018, Mr S wrote to Santander  again. He referred to the card schemes rules and 
said that his chargeback request should  be processed. But Santander didnt change their 
opinion. They thought that Mr Ss request for a chargeback was out of time and that it 
wouldnt have had any reasonable  chance  of success. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with Santanders response, so he brought  his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator thought that Santander had acted  fairly, so she didnt ask them to do 
anything. But Mr S says that hes requested chargebacks from several  other banks in the 
same circumstances and been  successful. So he queried why Santander are acting 
differently. He didnt  agree with our adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary process which is run by the card scheme, not Santander. 
Customers arent automatically entitled  to a chargeback and Santander dont have  to 
attempt it just because  a customer asks them to. But Id expect them  to try if theres good 
reason to do so. When considering a chargeback request,  Santander are bound by the rules 
of the card scheme.  They  arent obliged to submit a claim if they dont  think  the case fits 
within the rules, or if they think the claim  is unlikely to be successful.  In Mr Ss case,  
Santander say that his request was both out of time and unlikely to be successful.  Ill look at 
the issue of timing first.
The time limits for requesting a chargeback  are set out in the card scheme rules and have to 
be followed  strictly. The rules here say that the dispute must be processed within  120 days  
of either  the payment or the date Mr S received the service.
As it was some  eight  months after the last payment before Mr S requested the chargeback, 
Im satisfied that his request was out of time on the basis of the payment as a starting point. 
But Mr S says that the delivery date for the service was in May 2018. So he says the time 
runs from then, which would make his request in time under the rules.
Santander have  questioned the delivery  date.  They say it would be unusual  for a service  of 
this type to be paid for so far in advance. They invited Mr S to provide evidence  that the 
payments in October and November were for a service to be provided in May. I havent seen 
any evidence confirming  this. Mr S says that the service doesnt run immediately but on the 
Ref: DRN29568652customers say so, with delivery  being  scattered across a long period of time. Its not clear 
where the date in May fits into this type of arrangement. But in any event, the information  our 
adjudicator obtained from B indicates that they dont  work in quite that way. 
If the arrangement between Mr S and B was that B would provide services on or from a 
specific date, I would  expect there  to be some documentation confirming this. But I havent 
seen anything along these lines. So Im not persuaded that the time limit for the chargeback 
claim should run from May 2018. 
Turning to the claim itself,  Mr S disputes  the payments on the basis that the service  B 
provided wasnt as described  or was defective. This is a valid reason for a claim under the 
card scheme rules. But the claim needs to be supported by evidence explaining how the 
services were defective or different from what was described. I havent  seen  anything  which  
sets this out in the sort of detail Id expect for a chargeback  to be successful. 
I havent seen  any details of how Mr S attempted to resolve the dispute  with B. His letter to 
Santander says that he raised a complaint directly with B. He says he contacted  them on the 
phone several  times and was told it wasnt possible to have a refund. But he hasnt provided  
evidence of any conversations or correspondence  with B about the dispute. So I dont think 
Santander had enough information  to put forward a claim to the card scheme.
I havent seen  any information about why B wouldnt  refund the payments. But, as they had 
already refused, I find it likely that they would  have disputed any chargeback claim. 
Chargebacks are decided  on the basis of the card schemes rules,  not the merits of the 
dispute between  the customer and the merchant. So, even if Mr S has good grounds  for a 
claim against B (which  isnt what Im looking at here),  it doesnt  necessarily  follow that his 
claim for a chargeback would be successful.
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mr S has said.  But Im not satisfied  that his request 
was made  in time to be put forward  under the card schemes rules. And, even if it were in 
time, I dont think it was supported by the sort of evidence  which  is required. I havent  seen 
anything which makes  me think a chargeback claim would have been successful. So I think 
it was reasonable  here that Santander  didnt submit the claim  to the card scheme. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr S and he says its at odds with his experience  of 
other banks.  I dont have  any information about  his previous claims for chargeback with 
other banks,  and theyre not what Im considering  here. But each claim has to be considered 
on an individual basis and in line with the relevant card scheme rules. And, here, I dont think  
that Santander have made a mistake so Im not going to ask them  to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2956865