K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Legal & General  Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  their claim 
for accidental damage to their silk rug.
background
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim on their home insurance policy  for accidental damage to a silk 
rug. The policy is underwritten by Legal  and General, which  means its responsible for the 
claim. For ease, throughout my decision I will simply refer to Legal  and General when  
referencing the businesses involved.
The damage was caused by Mr and Mrs Ds working farm dog urinating on the rug. They  say 
the dog is housed in a separate property, but it got into their home when their patio doors 
were left open by contractors who were carrying out some work.
Legal and General declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim because their policy  excludes: damage  
caused by domestic  pets.  It concluded  that, although the dog is a working animal, it should 
be classed as a pet because Mr and Mrs D owned,  fed, and looked  after it.
Mr and Mrs D brought  their complaint to this service  and one of our investigators thought it 
should be upheld.  She explained  that whilst some working dogs could  be considered to be 
pets, such as guide  dogs,  there are other working dogs that are not treated as pets. She 
commented that Mr and Mrs Ds dog doesnt  live in their home, it lives separately on the 
farm; its a working animal used  to herd cows; and theres never  been  an intention  for it to 
enter someones home. Our investigator made a comparison with the cows  Mr and Mrs D 
owned and fed, concluding  that Legal  and General wouldnt consider these to be pets.
Legal and General disagreed with our investigator and made  the following points:
A domestic animal  is an animal thats  been tamed and kept as a work animal, food 
source, or pet.
A farm dog is different  to other farm animals because a dog isnt bred for milk or 
meat; and once  its usefulness is exhausted,  unlike the other farm animals, its 
unlikely to be sold or killed.
Our investigator highlighted to Legal and General that the policy excludes domestic pets, not 
domestic animals  so she therefore didnt consider its definition of domestic  animals to be 
relevant; and reiterated that Mr and Mrs Ds dog wasnt  being treated as a pet.
Because Legal and General disagreed  with our investigator the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25152612Having done so, I agree with our investigators  conclusions. Mr and Mrs Ds policy excludes 
domestic pets  and in my view, the dog in question  cant reasonably be considered to be 
domestic or a pet given its a working animal  thats  kept in a separate building,  not in 
someones home. 
I do agree  with Legal and General that the dog is unlikely to be put-down  after its no longer 
able to fulfil a working role, and I accept it may go on to become someones  pet and live in 
their home. But I dont consider that relevant here. What matters  is whether the dog can 
reasonably be considered  to be a domestic  pet at the time of the incident, and Im not 
persuaded it can.
So in conclusion, I dont  consider Legal  and Generals decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim based on the domestic pets exclusion to be fair  and Im satisfied it should now 
consider the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint. Legal & General Insurance Limited  
should now consider Mr and Mrs Ds claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515261