K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc did not use the correspondence address for her 
business when  it wrote to her and this caused  her reputational damage.
background
Mrs S applied for a business account  online at Santander with an overdraft. Her application 
was declined. Santander wrote to her business address to confirm  this. Mrs S had not 
started trading  from there then. Someone  else at the address opened the letter and told her 
about it.
Our investigator recommended that Santander  pay Mrs S £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
He said that:
-Hed looked at screenshots  for the online application form. Mrs S had given a 
different correspondence address to her trading address. There had been  no 
indication that Santander might write to Mrs S at the trading  address.
-The form recorded that Mrs S had been  trading from that address for one month. Mrs 
S said shed have put a future  date for the start of trading.  But hed found that his 
was not technically  possible to input. The latest  date that could be input was the date 
of the application.
-The form showed Mrs S as a company director and that she had no personal  
accounts with Santander. She said she had not input that information.  
-Santander said its systems stated she was a company director  and this might  have 
been populated automatically.  It could not explain why the form stated she had no 
personal accounts, when she did, but it said that this did not affect its decision.
-Santander said its process was to write  to the business at the registered address  to 
confirm this was valid.  
-He did not think Santander could have  expected  that the letter  would be opened by 
anyone else. But he thought it should pay Mrs S £50 for not corresponding with her in 
the way she asked. 
Santander did not agree. It said that Mrs S had not put correct  information about the time 
she had been  trading  from the address. So it could not be responsible for the consequences 
of writing to her there.
Mrs S also did not agree.  She said that she was not clear  why Santander had written to her 
when she had already been  turned down for the account in an email the day before. She did 
not accept its explanation  about why shed been  recorded as a company director  with no 
personal accounts with Santander as correct. And she thought  Santander had breached  the 
Data Protection Act in the way it had handled data about her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S applied online on 19 November  2018.  Santander says it carried out a manual review.  
It wrote to her by email  to decline her application for a current account  on 21 November  
2018. But it also sent her a letter  on 22 November  2018 to her business address  stating  that 
her request  for the current account and overdraft was declined.  It explained  the reasons why 
and set out her rights  of appeal.
Ref: DRN24602492Mrs S says that the business address she quoted was one that would only have  been  
available to her from January 2019.  So she wouldnt have  said that shed been trading from 
there for a month. The evidence I have is that it wouldnt  have  been  possible to input a future 
date for the start of trading from there. And if that wasnt a trading address  then the date to 
use would  be the current date. The online information Ive seen records  that shed been  
trading at that address  for a month.  And I dont have evidence to show that this was an error 
by Santander.  It does seem though that the information about her being  a director and 
having no personal accounts  may have been  populated by Santander. Its said that this had 
no bearing on her application.
I understand the concern  of Mrs S about Santanders explanation that it wrote to her at the 
registered address  to verify the information.  It had already decided not to offer her facilities.  
And it seemed to address  the letter as if it was to a company  although clearly  that was not 
the case here. But its said that this is the process  it uses and it would not have  used the 
correspondence address for such notifications.
Having said all that I dont  think Santander  could have foreseen  any impact  of writing to    
Mrs S at the business  address shed given. As I understand it she trades  in the business  
name it used. And shed  been in negotiation with the management at those premises  over a 
tenancy. Santander as I say believed she was already trading from that address. I dont think  
Santander could  have expected mail for her business would be opened by a third party and 
that there  could have  been any reputational damage. My understanding  is that Mrs S was 
still able to start to trade from those premises but I can understand why she felt embarrassed  
and that her privacy  had been breached.
As an informal dispute resolution  service were looking at the impact of what Santander did 
but not specifically at breaches of any legislation. Thats something Mrs S remains  free to 
take up with the Information Commissioners Office if she wants to. 
My assessment here is that Santander was responsible for some  inconvenience to Mrs S as 
she had asked that the correspondence go to a different  address and did not expect  it to 
write to her at her business address  whether or not she was trading there at the time. I 
assess the fair amount of compensation for this as £50.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs S 
£50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460249