K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance  Ltd failed to act on his request to switch  his pension  
funds into cash in advance of his retirement.
background
Mr M was a member of an occupational pension scheme. He had been suffering from 
ill-health since  early in 2017. In December 2017 he accessed the pension website provided 
by Zurich and updated his planned  retirement  age from 65 to 56. Mr M would become 56 
later in 2018. He says he expected that making  this change would ensure that the value  of 
his pension fund would  be protected from market movements.
In early January  2018 Mr M was informed by his employer that his ill-health had resulted in 
the termination of his employment. He says that it was at that time that he made the final 
decision to take his pension. Concerned about the continuing fluctuations in the value of his 
pension fund Mr M sent an email to Zurich on 12 January. Specifically in that email he asked 
for his pension fund to be moved into a safe pot and he complained  about  the service  he 
had received from Zurich  to date.
Zurich says it attempted,  unsuccessfully,  to contact Mr M by telephone on 15 and 17 
January. It then sent a letter to Mr Ms home address on 17 January in response to his 
emailed complaint. As part of that letter Zurich  explained to Mr M that he would  need  to get 
in touch by telephone, or using the website, to provide more specific  details about how he 
wanted his funds to be invested.
It seems  that Mr M didnt  receive that letter. Mr M contacted  Zurich  by telephone on 
12 February and during  that call Zurich explained  to Mr M how his pension funds were  
currently invested. By that time the value of Mr Ms pension fund had fallen from its previous 
level. Zurich explained  to Mr M how he would need  to instruct  any change  in the investment 
of his pension  and sent a copy  of its earlier letter to him by email.
Ultimately Mr M made no changes to the investment strategy  of his pension funds. He 
moved his entire fund to another provider in May 2018.
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. Ultimately he thought the 
letter that Zurich  had sent to Mr M in January 2017, and the attempts to contact Mr M by 
telephone beforehand, had been  a reasonable response to his emailed request. So he didnt 
think Zurich had failed  to act on Mr Ms request to move his pension  funds to a safe  pot. 
But he thought  that the £300 compensation Zurich had offered to Mr M as a gesture of 
goodwill was reasonable.
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators recommendations,  or the compensation offered  by 
Zurich. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN23404712In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr M and by Zurich. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have  made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
A number  of facts about this complaint seem to be without  dispute. Towards the end of 2017  
Mr M had begun considering his options for retirement, and started  making preparations by 
changing his expected  retirement date on the Zurich website. In early  2018 the termination 
of Mr Ms employment caused  him to make  the final decision  to retire. It seems  Mr M was 
aware of the risks presented by market fluctuations and so wanted to take steps to ensure 
the value of his pension  fund was protected.
In matters such as this the terminology  that might be used by a consumer may be different 
from the technical descriptions applied by a business. Here Mr M used the phrase safe pot 
to describe what seems  to be the movement of his pension fund into cash. And to some 
degree I would  expect a business to interpret the instructions of a consumer, and where 
necessary clarify those  instructions  and ensure they are implemented.  But, of course,  it is 
also reasonable for a business  to ensure  that the actions it takes are supported by a clear  
and valid instruction from a consumer.
I think that, following  Mr Ms email on 12 January, Zurich  understood that Mr M wanted to 
take steps to change  the investment strategy  for his pension funds. But, equally, I dont think 
the instruction  that Mr M had given Zurich   to move  his funds  into a safe pot  was clear  
enough for Zurich  to make any changes. So I think it was reasonable for Zurich to clarify  that 
instruction, initially, and unsuccessfully, by telephone  and then by writing to Mr M.
I entirely accept that Mr M didnt receive  that letter when  it was sent. But Zurich  has given us 
a copy of the letter it sent. That letter is correctly  addressed to Mr M. I am aware that Mr M 
says he had problems  using the secure messaging system that Zurich  provided. But Zurich  
has confirmed that the letter was sent by post.  So I dont think  it reasonable to hold Zurich 
responsible for it not being delivered to Mr M. And that letter did make  it clear that Mr M 
needed to get in touch  with Zurich, either by telephone or its website to clarify his investment 
instruction.
I have noted that Mr M didnt ultimately make  any changes to his investment strategy 
following his call with Zurich in February  2018.  Im not drawing any adverse conclusions from 
that  I dont think it necessarily indicates  that Mr M wouldnt have made  the change  earlier  
in January. By February Mr M says the value of his pension fund had fallen so I think it 
entirely possible that he might have  left his funds invested in order to attempt to recoup 
some of those losses.
For completeness I will note what  happened when Mr M changed his expected  retirement 
age in December  2017. Mr Ms pension funds  were invested in a lifecycle  arrangement, with 
the funds being moved  into less volatile investments as the expected  retirement age 
approached. Mr Ms change of retirement  age should have caused  a change in investment 
strategy. That didnt  happen immediately due to a processing error. But I can see that Zurich  
had already assessed and corrected the difference  in value  caused  by that error before Mr M 
brought his complaint to us.
Ref: DRN23404713Overall I dont think that Zurich held a sufficiently clear instruction to change the investment 
approach on Mr Ms pension fund following his email  in January 2017. I think that the steps 
Zurich took to clarify that instruction both by calling and writing to Mr M were reasonable. So 
I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong  in relation to this complaint.
I can see that Zurich has made  a goodwill  offer to Mr M of £300  in respect of its customer 
service. I think that is a fair offer and should be paid to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint against Zurich  Assurance Ltd. But 
I direct  Zurich  to pay the sum of £300 to Mr M that it has offered as a gesture of goodwill.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2340471