K821x#15Complaint
Mr O complained about charges applied to his Pilgrim  self-Invested Personal Pension
(SIPP) since  City Trustees Limited were appointed as the scheme  administrator.  More 
specifically, the charges  relating to the non-standard investments held within his SIPP.
Background
In 2012, City Trustees Ltd (part of Mattioli  Woods Plc group) were appointed scheme 
administrators of the Pilgrim SIPP. 
City Trustees contacted  Mr O on 1 April 2015.  They told him that in line with the regulators 
increased capital  adequacy requirements they had reviewed the charging  structure  for 
clients that held non-standard investments. City Trustees introduced an annual  fee of £500 
(plus VAT)  for each such holding. They also notified  Mr O there was an additional fee for 
members who held more  than one asset  in the SIPP.
City Trustees wrote again to Mr O on 29 May 2015 informing him the pricing  structure would 
be changed from 1 July 2015.  This fee schedule confirmed  the following charges per annum, 
before VAT:
Core administration  fee £420.
Multiple or bespoke  assets fee £400.
Non-standard investment administration fee £500 per asset.
Mr Os annual invoice was sent to him in September 2015  and he complained the charges  
were too high. He also notified City Trustees that one of his original four non-standard 
holdings had gone into liquidation. Over the years  that followed Mr O complained  the fees 
were too high and also wrong; as one or more of his non-standard holdings had failed. Its 
said Mr O went  on to inform City Trustees  in October 2017 that a further holding had been 
liquidated and that left him with two non-standard assets held within  the SIPP.  Mr O didnt 
think City Trustees reflected failures in his invoices.
On 3 August  2018, following correspondence,  City Trustees wrote to Mr O apologizing for 
any alarm  caused by previous communications. They  set out more  information on the non-
standard investment fee and the background to it. They said they would carry out a review 
and try to ascertain  the value  of the scheme  holdings at a minimum on an annual basis. 
However, with non-standard  investments,  it can often be difficult  to obtain this information. It 
may, on occasion, be necessary to provide [Mr O] with a historic  value of an asset when all 
avenues of enquiry  have  been exhausted. If this does occur, we will notify  [Mr O] of this.
They told Mr O they had refunded one non-standard asset charge from the last three 
invoices and that from then on, Mr O would only be charged for two non-standard  holdings, 
along with the core administration fee and the multiple asset fees. City Trustees  went on to 
say:
With regard to the fees charged, we appreciate that these have  now culminated to a large 
amount and as a gesture  of goodwill and in an effort to assist you, we have completed a part 
refund towards  each  of the outstanding invoices. We have refunded  one non-standard asset 
charge from each of the invoices, plus an additional charge from the 2017 invoice in 
recognition of the liquidated sterling holdings. This represents a total reduction of £2,412 .
Ref: DRN26211422They said they proposed the future  annual charges  be restricted  to the core administration 
fee, the multiple asset fee and two non-standard investment fees. I previously set out that it 
wasnt clear to me if this could be accurately  described as a gesture of goodwill, or rather  
was simply summarizing what they were  entitled to charge  for.
Mr O came to this service. He told us he didnt  know what to do with the non-standard 
investments as they are illiquid and have a nil value. He didnt think he could sell them.  He 
referred to the arrears  in fees of £9,572 that had built up and that the business  said they had 
reduced fees by £2,412. Mr O thought this only happened because  hed told City Trustees 
that one of the assets had liquidated and so the fees were adjusted  accordingly. He said the 
business would keep charging  until they had official notification the investment has failed. He 
thought three further investments were 'in limbo'.
He went on to send  us copies of documents  from City Trustees  and tell us:
The charges  for the first 3 years and 3 months (the years 2013 to 2015)  total £2,190
The charges  for the next three years (the years  2016 to18) total £10,572
He thought these charges and future ones were unacceptable and too high. He said he 
accepted the single charge for non-standard  equity holdings in addition  to the core 
administration charge. But didnt think the additional charge for each holding  was justified.
He doesnt think  the non-standard holdings involve any extra  work  and are more or less 
worthless and illiquid. And he thinks its wrong  that despite informing City Trustees  that one 
of the three holdings  went into liquidation in 2015;  theyd  refused to accept this until he 
complained to this service. It was only at this time they credited his account for the charges 
on this holding, back dated to 2015.
He said he only had two remaining  holdings (Greenkote and Lognet); and he told us a little 
more about his understanding of the problems being experienced by these holdings. He 
accepted he needed to continue to pay £492 (plus  VAT) a year for having two non-standard 
holdings, but told us he strongly  objected to paying  a further  extra charge of £816  a year 
total per holding.
City Trustees didnt  accept the complaint  and told us they had reduced their non-standard 
investment fee to only two costs of £500 from August 2018 as Mr O only had two holdings  
that were non-standard  from that point. However  this information is inconsistent  with other 
submissions made. 
One of our adjudicators investigated, but didnt think the complaint ought to be upheld. The 
adjudicator thought City Trustees had charged Mr O in accordance with the updates  he had 
been given advance notice of in each case.
Mr O did not agree with the adjudicators view and said he was complaining that the charges 
were unreasonably high and still being  applied when the non-standard  equity  holdings  have 
next to no value.  Mr O requested that an ombudsman decide the matter.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  on 11 March 2020. In it I indicated that I 
intended to depart from the view expressed  by the adjudicator. I accepted that there was 
nothing to suggest City Trustees had applied charges incorrectly; and that it was a matter for 
Ref: DRN26211423them to set their charging structure. But I set out why I intended  to conclude City Trustees 
hadnt done all they could  have done,  nor had they acted in a timely way in relation to certain 
actions. I thought this had caused Mr O additional  uncertainty, frustration and inconvenience. 
So I thought  City Trustees ought to pay Mr O the sum of £250. I also set out some areas 
where I required further information and clarification. 
Responses:
I received a number  of responses and there have been further  communications arising from 
the additional information and submissions we have shared between parties. I hope it will be 
understood that I am only summarizing here.
In general terms Mattioli Woods on the part of City Trustees suggest  Mr O mis-understands 
the nature  of their relationship. They have provided further information and clarification on 
matters raised by myself and Mr O; this has been  shared  with Mr O. They indicated their 
willingness to pay the £250 Id recommended.
In summary  they have  added:
There has been no material  change  to the fee model applied  since  2015 and they 
think its the impact on Mr Os overall  fund value  that is making this feel harder.  They 
say the only change is the RPI increase, as set out in the notes  on the final page  of 
their fee menu.
Their fees are flat rate and dont take into account the value of the holdings.  There  is 
no percentage fee (based  on the valuations as at the original purchase  price).
Their role is purely administrative,  it cant be and isnt advisory.
They have struggled to obtain  information  and up to date valuations  relating to the 
non-standard holdings; receiving no reply from the fund managers. 
Where this happens they caveat each valuation. Historically they have valued  some 
assets at cost where they could not obtain confirmation of the current  value; and this 
was communicated  to Mr O.
They continue to submit it isnt sufficient for them to update their records  to a nil 
value based solely  on information from Mr O that he believed his holdings  were 
worthless.
City Trustees say that when they were able to make contact with the fund manager  
the value of Mr Os non-standard holdings  were found to not all be worthless;  only 
the Sterling asset had been liquidated.
They say that as soon as they were aware of this, this was acknowledged to Mr O 
and they reduced  all previous fee invoices  by one lot of non-standard investment 
fees; and they also confirmed  the positive value position on the other non-standard 
holdings.  
Mattioli Woods  also provided further  detail  on how they came to be appointed and the nature 
of their relationship  and the registration of assets.  They say they will assist him if a buyer  is 
identified for the holdings.
Ref: DRN26211424Mr O remains  dis-satisfied.  He considers he is left in an arrangement that is expensive when 
looking at the value of his holdings. Mr O believes the flat rate is being  applied 
inappropriately. Mr O takes  issue with the application of a multiple asset charge being used 
and the regulators  capital adequacy  requirements  where his holdings have little or nil value. 
He doesnt think  he can dis-invest and feels frustrated.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to alter my 
decision overall to that set out in my provisional  decision. So Mattioli  Woods will need to pay 
Mr O £250.
Having considered everything  provided, I accept City Trustees kept Mr O informed about the 
changes in their charging structure and how that would affect him.  In general  terms, they 
charged Mr O in line with this. 
I understand the real thrust of Mr Os complaint is that he feels  the charges are too high, 
particularly given the values placed  on some of his holdings. But the charges are applied  on 
a flat rate, rather than reflecting the actual valuations; so although I understand Mr Os 
disappointment, this is a dis-satisfaction  with the level of charges and performance  of 
holdings, neither of which  I think are something  that I can consider here.
There has been some suggestion  of a limited recovery, at least  in respect of certain 
holdings; albeit I understand  Mr O doesnt accept this has any meaningful impact.  I 
appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr O, and Ive seen a number of his investments have 
significantly fallen in value. But theres  nothing to make  me think City Trustees are 
responsible in any way for Mr Os investments  or that they werent entitled to change their 
charging structure in the way they did. 
I previously indicated I understood Mr O might  face some difficulty  if he wished to transfer to 
an alternative provider,  because of the position  with his non-standard holdings.  So I 
understand why Mr O feels frustrated and unhappy that his costs have increased  at a time 
when these holdings  have failed. 
The change in charging structure  took place following the regulators capital adequacy  rules.  
The change in charging structure  is primarily why Mr Os future fees appear significantly 
higher than his past fees. Ive seen one holding has been liquidated and is no longer 
generating an additional fee. In relation to non- standard holdings that havent failed, City 
Trustees are entitled to apply the charge they introduced in 2015. It isnt for me here to 
interfere with the charging structure introduced, and I accept it was properly communicated  
at the time. I understand why Mr O has felt this structure was imposed on him, leaving him 
with little option, but again I dont think this is due to any failure  on the part of City Trustees; 
it reflects how they came  to be involved and the wider circumstances at the time. My 
understanding is that City Trustees think they have applied  a deduction they didnt need  to 
apply.
Mr O continues to feel the charges are disproportionate, but I dont think this is something for 
me to comment on. Mr O has asked for further  information that may enable him to pursue 
the sale of his holdings, and I understand this is something City Trustees will be able to 
provide information  about.
Ref: DRN26211425I previously reflected on whether City Trustees  had done enough as part of their overall 
service (that for which they have  been  charging  Mr O); as it doesnt  appear to me to have 
been wholly satisfactory.
I said this particularly having looked  at the time it appeared to have taken City Trustees  to 
have acknowledged  and updated values; particularly  in respect of one of Mr Os holdings 
liquidated in 2015. Based on what Ive seen it doesnt appear it was until late 2018 that City 
Trustees accepted this information from Mr O and applied the relevant deduction to his 
account, backdating it to the time of liquidation in 2015. Their letter confirming this used the 
phrase that this was done as a gesture of goodwill,  but it seems  to me, this was what  they 
were required  to do; it was not a gesture of goodwill per se.
When City Trustees first introduced their new charging structure  they said:
The regulator  has had an increasing focus  on the nature of assets that are held in SIPPs, 
particularly investments they deem  to be of a very non-standard nature.
As a result of these changes the obligations on SIPP operators have increased to such an 
extent that additional reconciliation, due diligence and on-going reviews are required for any 
investments of this nature.
This allows us to make sure we have a robust  structure in place  so that we are able to 
continually review the assets held on your behalf Therefore, we propose to charge an annual 
fee of £500 plus VAT,  and an initial fee of £995  plus VAT for the review of any new 
investments that do not meet the FCA standard investment criteria. The annual fee will cover 
our work required to review such assets,  to ensure they are still suitable.
I accept, as City Trustees set out to Mr O in their letter of August 2018, that up to date 
information on non-standard holdings can sometimes  take longer to obtain and there  may be 
some difficulties experienced. But I continue to think City Trustees have a duty to act and 
obtain information under their own duties as well as the service for which they are charging 
Mr O.
Here, for City Trustees to have taken three years to act on information from Mr O, and to 
understand that Mr Os holding had been liquidated  doesnt appear to me to be consistent 
with their undertaking that this additional  fee was to reflect the additional reconciliation,  due 
diligence and on-going reviews required or the continual review  they undertook  to provide.
Overall I find it hard to accept that City Trustees did all they ought to have done firstly in 
reviewing and obtaining the information  available on the relevant holdings  in a timely  
manner. I accept there can be (and were)  difficulties  but it seems there was sufficient 
information available here at an earlier time. I have also previously explained my confusion 
about the accuracy and inconsistency within several emails  and the extent to which City 
Trustees had acted on the assistance they had sought from Mr O. Whilst it may not have 
been wrong for the valuations to have appeared as they did for an ongoing period, it did add 
to Mr Os frustrations  and distress,  for a longer period than perhaps it might.
I think there is still some ongoing  confusion  about the Greenkote  holdings.  In June 2018 City 
Trustees told Mr O he held Greenkote  ordinary shares and Greenkote A class shares 
(previously loan notes); and have recently repeated, the Greenkote investments, were 
purchased, and thus charged as two separate non-standard holdings. Although I think  this 
Ref: DRN26211426position hasnt  been consistent  over the years.  And Mr O doesnt think the Greenkote  
holdings ought  to be considered as two separate holdings. Based on what  Ive seen, I 
understand why they have been considered  and dealt  with separately, but as I understand 
that City Trustees say that in July of 2018 in an attempt  to resolve the situation  [they]  
agreed to only charge  two non-standard  investment  fees going forwards and raised credit 
notes against  previous  years fees to reflect this deduction I dont intend to say anything 
further on this.
Overall City Trustees set and applied charges  in the way that was explained to Mr O it would 
be done. I havent seen anything that suggests  to me they acted  outside  of the way they 
were entitled  to act in setting charges. I understand why they will feel expensive to Mr O due 
to the performance  of his holdings, but that doesnt mean City Woods  were  wrong  to apply 
the charges. Since they are applied on a flat rate, the actual  value of the holdings  and delays 
in updates didnt increase the charges.  But  I dont  think City Trustees  did all they could have 
done, nor in a timely way, particularly in relation  to obtaining updated valuations.  I think  this 
caused Mr O some  additional uncertainty, frustration and inconvenience.  For this reason City 
Trustees ought to pay him the sum of £250.
Final decision
So for the reasons given, I uphold Mr Os complaint about Mattioli Woods PLC in part. 
Mattioli Woods  will need to pay Mr O the sum of £250 to reflect his inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2621142