K821x#15complaint
Mr B is represented. He says The TJM Partnership  Ltd (TJM)  is responsible  for his 
investments, through a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP), in unsuitable  high risk, 
illiquid and unregulated funds. 
background
A chronology of key events (and summaries of their relevance to the complaint) is as follows:
TJM advised Mr B on the switch of SIPP Providers in November 2014. Its fact find 
document records that Mr B had net assets worth £275,000; investment experience 
in equities, only,  over the previous  12 months;  and investment  suitability criteria  
defined by a 10 years (plus) time horizon, an objective for long term investing  and a 
rating of five (between one and 10) to describe his overall  investment experience.  
TJM admits that it did not provide a suitability letter to Mr B at the time of advice. It 
said it was not required  to as Mr B was primarily advised by a third party  to invest  
through TJM.
Mr B previously  held his SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown (HL). Through TJM, he 
applied to switch  to The Lifetime SIPP Company Limited (Lifetime). HL has 
confirmed to this service that Mr B transferred his Individual Stakeholder Pension 
(ISP) to an HL SIPP in June 2014  and that the HL SIPP was held in cash and was 
never invested  up to the point Mr B switched to Lifetime. 
Mr Bs application (and transfer form) for the Lifetime  SIPP confirmed TJM as the 
SIPPs adviser and investment  manager,  it also specified the intended allocation of 
£30,000 to investments in mainstream  equities  and Contracts  for Differences 
(CFDs) in a diversified portfolio  further  documentation refers to Exchange Traded 
Funds (ETFs) and bonds as being other permitted  investments.  
The change of SIPP provider   from HL to Lifetime  happened by December 2014, 
when the Lifetime SIPP (the SIPP) began. The SIPPs transactions history shows  
that almost £30,000 was transferred  into the SIPP in this month.
In January 2015 TJM instructed the transfer of around £28,000 from the SIPP  to     
Mr Bs SIPP  based  trading account in Saxo Capital Markets (Saxo);  the 
recommendation to invest in this trading account through  the SIPP was made by TJM 
and TJM appears to have had a limited power  of attorney to conduct transactions  in 
the Saxo account (the Saxo  accounts transactions statement shows  that CFDs were 
traded, exclusively, within it between 21 January and 7 April); the SIPPs transactions  
history shows  that the transfer was executed in the same  month (January); the 
transactions history  also shows  that in the following  month  (February)  £8,000  was 
withdrawn from the Saxo account  and returned  into the SIPP  and then in April 2015 a 
final withdrawal of almost £20,000 was made  from the Saxo  account  and returned 
into the SIPP.
Also in January  2015, there was an instruction to transfer £8,000  from the SIPP to 
establish an Investment Portfolio  with ETX Capital (ETX); the transfer  instruction  
document says this too was recommended by TJM and that TJM had power of 
attorney for the ETX portfolio;  the SIPPs transactions history shows  the transfer  was 
executed in March 2015, after £8,000  had been returned from the Saxo account into 
the SIPP in February; the transactions history also shows that in April the same 
amount (£8,000)  was withdrawn from the ETX portfolio and returned  into the SIPP.  
The transactions history then shows that in June  2015 around £27,500 was 
transferred from the SIPP  to an SVS Securities  (SVS) account; almost a year later 
in May 2016  around  £14,700 was withdrawn from the SVS account  and returned  into 
Ref: DRN24477292the SIPP; in the following month (June) around £14,100 was initially  returned to the 
SVS account and then it was withdrawn from there and returned  into the SIPP,  then 
the same  amount was transferred into a Jarvis account; there is evidence that a 
different adviser  firm (JNF Capital) was in place at this time; in September 2017 
almost £10,000 was withdrawn from the SVS account and returned into the SIPP.
TJM says the initial transfer into the SVS account  in June 2015  marked  the end 
of its involvement in the SIPP  and the beginning of SVS as Mr Bs appointed 
investment manager; it says no unregulated  investments  were  made  under  its 
management of the SIPP; Mr Bs representative agree with this but Mr B says the  
CFDs invested through the SIPP were  also unsuitable and that TJM is responsible  
for what followed thereafter; TJM disagrees, it says the unregulated investments 
began under SVS management of the SIPP and that Mr Bs complaint about their 
unsuitability has been misdirected to TJM, and should instead  be directed to SVS.
As of 28 June 2018, the transactions history  says the SIPPs  balance  was £9,692.04. 
Earlier, in February, that year the SIPP had been transitioned  from Lifetime to Hartley 
Pensions Limited (Hartley). Mr Bs complaint  to TJM appears to have been  made  in 
September 2018 and it listed 10 grounds (out of 12 bullet points)  broadly related to 
risk, capacity  for loss, fees and lack of advice  upon which the SIPPs  investments 
were unsuitable  for him.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  In 
the main,  he considered as follows:
TJM was wrong to have deprived Mr B of a suitability  letter;  it was required to provide 
one given that it had advised  Mr B and made investment recommendations to him; 
and TJM was also wrong to have recommended the use his pension fund to engage 
in unsuitable and high risk CFD trading.
Based  on the regulators  alert in 2013,  TJM was required  to have an overall 
understanding of Mr Bs investment  strategy  for the SIPP and to advice in that 
context. This was especially so because he was introduced to TJM by an 
unregulated introducer  who appeared to be misguiding him, so by failing to conduct 
an overall suitability  assessment  for him TJM essentially facilitated  such  
misguidance.
TJMs fact finding was poor but was enough to show that Mr B was not an 
experienced investor. The fact that his HL SIPP had been uninvested before the 
switch to Lifetime supports this conclusion.
Had TJM conducted a proper  and overall suitability assessment for Mr B it ought to 
have advised  against the switch of SIPP provider  and the investment in CFDs or 
unregulated funds, and it probably would have negated the misguidance from the 
unregulated introducer.  If TJM had done this, it is unlikely that Mr B would have 
proceeded with the switch or the high-risk investments, and he would have invested 
differently. Redress should be paid to him on this basis,  along  with £150 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to him.
TJM disagrees  with this outcome. In the main,  it says:
This service must accept, as a matter  of fact, that the allegation about responsibility 
for Mr Bs investments in unregulated funds cannot apply  to TJM. At no time did TJM 
recommend unregulated investments  to Mr B and at no time, until the complaint, was 
it aware that such investments had been made.  There is no evidence that shows  
otherwise and no evidence that shows it was  or should have been   foreseeable to 
TJM that Mr B would  subsequently invest in unregulated products; if TJM had such  
Ref: DRN24477293an indication  it would  have advised against  such products. After June 2015 it had no 
further involvement in the SIPP. The unregulated  investments  happened  thereafter.
A similar point  applies  to the regulators 2013  alert; it relates to pensions transferred 
from traditional arrangements into SIPPs and firms engaged  in pressuring pension 
holders to conduct such transfers. In contrast,  TJM had no involvement in Mr Bs 
initial transfer of the ISP to the HL SIPP. It was involved, only,  in the switch of SIPP  
Providers. It is arguable  that the firm that advised Mr B on the transfer of the ISP to 
the HL SIPP  is the firm upon  which the responsibility featured  in the regulators alert 
applies to  and not to TJMs limited  role in terms of the subsequent provider switch.
CFD trading was not unsuitable for Mr B in his circumstances at the time  including  
evidence of his overall profile  and warnings given to him at the time.
TJM was unaware of the (or any) misguidance  the investigator says the unregulated 
introducer applied  to Mr B. It has not seen evidence to support the investigators 
assessment of the introducer in this way and has not seen evidence to say it should 
have viewed the introducer in the same  way at the time of advice. As such, it is unfair 
to conclude that it should have  given advice to negate  the alleged  misguidance.  It is 
also conflicting for the investigator to say Mr B was under the introducers influence 
and then to also say advice from TJM would have negated  that.
The investigator has unfairly failed to give due weight  to the intervening  actions of 
other firms (including  the SIPP  providers,  the other advisers and the other  investment 
managers)  against whom Mr Bs complaint should rightly  be directed  that 
definitively break any chain of causation that began with its switch  related advice to 
him. It is those firms  who are responsible for the unregulated investments Mr B has 
complained about, not TJM, and the investigator has also overlooked the possibility 
that Mr B has taken or will be taking comparable  action  against them  elsewhere   
thereby unfairly  duplicating his claim for compensation.
There is a lack of information, about what has happened in the SIPP  to date, to 
sustain the redress  proposed by the investigator.
It is prepared to accept that it should  have provided Mr B with a suitability letter; 
however it does not accept that its recommendation of CFDs  was unsuitable or that 
Mr B would not have  switched SIPP  Providers  if it told him not to; nevertheless and in 
order to settle the matter,  it is prepared to compensate (with interest) Mr B for the 
total loss he incurred in the CFD trading account up to 7 April 2015 and to pay him 
£150 for the trouble  and upset caused  by its failure to provide him with a suitability 
letter. If these offers do not settle the complaint  it should be referred  to an 
ombudsman.
Mr B declined TJMs  offer and the matter was referred  to an ombudsman   in the interim,  the 
investigator also responded  to TJM to confirm that its points had not given him cause to 
change his view that the complaint should be upheld.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Context
The financial  services regulator issued an alert in 2013 which  included  the following:
It began  with this statement   It has been brought  to the FSAs attention  that some  
financial advisers are giving advice to customers  on pension  transfers  or pension 
Ref: DRN24477294switches without assessing  the advantages or disadvantages of investments 
proposed to be held within the new pension. [my emphasis]
It continued to include   The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, 
when advice is given  on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products 
(such as SIPPs and other  wrappers),  consideration of the suitability of the overall  
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where  
a customer seeks advice  on a pension transfer  in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall 
investment strategy the customer is contemplating.; and  if you give regulated  
advice and the recommendation will enable  investment in unregulated items you 
cannot separate out the unregulated  elements from the regulated elements. [my 
emphasis]
The regulator reinforced its views in a further alert in April 2014,  which  included;
We believe  pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream 
propositions are unlikely  to be suitable options  for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms  
operating in this market  need to be particularly careful  to ensure their advice is suitable.
Where  a financial adviser recommends a SIPP  knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does  not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
In addition to the above,  it is noteworthy that at the outset of TJMs  2014  fact find document  
(for Mr B) it is stated that the fact-finding objective  is to  gain a thorough understanding  of 
[his] investment requirements  and aspirations.  
Based on the above, I initially consider as follows:
The regulators alert(s) is not limited to pension transfers as TJM has argued. As I 
emphasised in the 2013 alert quote  it extended  to switches too  switches  like Mr Bs 
SIPP Provider switch.
Events in Mr Bs case  happened  after both the 2013 and 2014 alerts  and it is 
reasonable to conclude  that TJM  as a regulated firm  was either aware of those 
alerts or ought reasonably to have been aware  of them. They  were applicable to TJM 
at the time of its advice to Mr B. It can also be said that its opening statement in the 
fact find document  sought to be consistent  with the same notion of a comprehensive 
assessment of suitability.
Ref: DRN24477295The regulators expectation  of and requirement from TJM in Mr Bs case  was that it 
had to assess and advise on the suitability  of the overall proposition  related to his 
switch to the Lifetime SIPP  (including suitability of the wider investment strategy 
associated with the switch);  that it had to approach  the SIPP with awareness that it 
would be a vehicle  for investment in other products; that it could not give regulated 
advice which will enable  investment  in unregulated items within the SIPP  and 
separate such items from its advice; and that if it did not fully understand the 
underlying investment  proposition intended to be held within  Mr Bs SIPP it should 
not give its advice  on the switch at all, as it will not be able to assess suitability of the 
transaction as a whole . 
It is also worth noting the regulators view, at the time, that non-mainstream 
investments were unlikely  to be suitable  for SIPPs held by retail  customers. 
TJMs Advice  to Mr B.
The regulators Conduct of Business  rules  makes clear a firms  regulatory  obligation   as 
part of its wider duty to uphold  a clients best interests  to provide its client  with a suitability 
report that is clear and simple and that essentially includes  relevant details of the clients 
investor profile, wider  relevant circumstances,  objectives, reasons for the firms 
recommendation(s) and any advantages or disadvantages of its recommendation(s).  I 
consider this settled  knowledge in the industry and that TJM was aware  of this at the time of 
its advice to Mr B.
Given its concession that it should have issued  a suitability letter to Mr B, TJM appears  to 
accept that it was wrong not to have  done so in 2014. It breached its regulatory obligation to 
do so and I consider,  on balance,  that the absence of a suitability letter also indicates  that it 
did not approach  its advice  to Mr B in the manner that regulator required it to at the time (as 
summarised above).  Otherwise, record of such comprehensive advice within  a suitability 
report would  arguably  have been inevitable.  In addition, and as I address below, by limiting 
its recommendation to the setting up of the CFD account  as it appears  to have done and 
despite knowledge of Mr Bs 10 years (plus) investment horizon for the SIPP  TJMs actions 
also indicate a significant shortfall in its advice which had the effect  of abandoning  Mr Bs 
best [long term] interests in relation  to the SIPP.
TJM stands by its recommendation in favour  of the switch to the Lifetime SIPP and in favour 
of trading CFDs within the SIPP. It also says that it did not recommend unregulated 
investments to Mr B, that it has no responsibility in this respect and that others are 
responsible for his unregulated investments.
Trading CFDs, with the inherent and notable risks in doing so and with its short (or shorter) 
term nature, cannot reasonably be considered to have been  a suitable long-term pension 
investment strategy  for Mr B. I do not consider that such  a strategy  matched his 10 years  
(plus) investment horizon  or long-term investing  objective. The HL SIPP  had remained in 
cash and was uninvested for around six months  when  the switch  advice took place and there 
appears to be a lack of evidence to fully support the idea that Mr B was an experienced 
investor. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that Mr B had enough  investment or 
trading experience to engage in CFD trading. In addition, the regulator considered  non-
mainstream investments  unlikely to be suitable for retail customers  SIPPs  at the time. Mr B 
was a retail customer and it is arguable that CFDs  would  fit the description of a non-
mainstream investment  for a SIPP. I conclude that TJMs recommendation of CFD trading 
Ref: DRN24477296through Mr Bs SIPP was unsuitable. In this respect,  I note that it has offered  to undertake  
responsibility for his losses  in the Saxo CFD trading account.
Proper assessment  of suitability, by TJM, should  have included  discussion and confirmation 
of what was to be done  with the SIPP over the long term and 10 years  (plus) investment 
horizon  as were Mr Bs objectives. Besides  being  unsuitable, the recommendation of CFD 
trading fell significantly short of covering what was to be done  over the long term  unless 
TJM considered that Mr B should continue using his SIPP to trade  CFDs over the course of 
10 years  (plus), which would have compounded the unsuitability of its advice. The SIPP  
application documents refers to intended investments in mainstream equities, ETFs and 
bonds but there is no evidence that, prior to the application, this was part of TJMs suitability 
considerations and/or discussions with Mr B  and no such investments appear to have 
been made after the switch. 
The discussion that should have happened would  have  explored long term investment 
options, and I consider  this a point on which to begin  addressing  TJMs arguments about the 
unregulated investments and about  them being remote to it and its role.
TJM did not recommend unregulated investments to Mr B and I understand its arguments 
about other parties roles in this respect.  I also understand its point about responsibility 
attached to the firm that advised  Mr B to transfer his ISP to the HL SIPP. However, I am not 
persuaded that any of these arguments  negate  or dilute its responsibility  in the matter. The 
SIPP that was used for CFD trading and then the unregulated investments was the SIPP 
TJM advised upon. The regulator required it to apply the approach to advice set out above. 
A proper  suitability assessment was also a regulatory requirement and it would have  
involved the same approach and the discussion (and exploration)  I mentioned in the 
paragraph above. 
Had all of these things  happened I consider it more likely (than  not) that TJM would have 
gained insight into the details of Mr Bs long term investment plans  and/or  objectives and/or 
considerations and it would  have  advised upon them; or, at least, it would have given him 
comprehensive advice  (within a suitability report)  about the long term use of his pension 
arrangement or SIPP in a manner that was suitable  for him. I acknowledge that the fact find 
document, which was undersigned by Mr B, concluded with a section that gave generic risk 
warnings about  a list of different types  of investments, but I do not consider that a 
meaningful substitute  for dedicated suitability  advice on the prospective use of Mr Bs 
pension arrangement or SIPP.
As the regulator  said, a firm like TJM advising on a SIPP related switch had to be mindful 
that the SIPP would be a vehicle for other investment products and that its recommendation 
of the switch could enable  [unsuitable]  unregulated investments thereafter. These too should  
have been part of the discussion TJM ought  to have had with Mr B in the course of its 
suitability assessment (and as part of a suitability  report). There is no evidence of such  
matters being  discussed and none of TJM advising on them.  
The result of the above analysis is that TJM recommended unsuitable CFD trading to Mr B 
and because that was its basis for recommending the switch  to the Lifetime SIPP  its 
recommendation of the SIPP was also unsuitable   as the regulators alert said,  If the 
underlying investment is not suitable  for the customer, then the overall advice is not 
suitable;  TJM also failed to apply, to its advice, the comprehensive approach required by 
the regulator; by that failure and by its recommendation of the switch  despite that failure  it 
Ref: DRN24477297enabled usage of Mr Bs SIPP for the unregulated  investments that followed; this is where its 
responsibility for Mr Bs complaint is established.
I now consider whether,  as TJM argues, any advice to Mr B against  the switch  would not 
have made  a difference  that is, whether (or not) Mr B would probably have sought help 
with a switch elsewhere and pursued  unsuitable  and unregulated investments regardless of 
suitable advice  from TJM against such steps.
Other than the objectives stated in the fact find document, I do not have enough evidence on     
Mr Bs wider investment motives before or at the time of the switch   a suitability report  could 
have provided  more information in this respect, but none exists.  The SIPP applications  
reference to intended investments in mainstream  equities, ETFs and bonds suggests he had 
a mainstream profile but it is difficult to make  more out of this reference given that it is not 
clear whether (or not)  or the extent  to which  such products were discussed  with Mr B at 
the point of advice. As mentioned above, the HL SIPP had been  uninvested  for around six 
months prior to the switch  so that too does not help in considering any pre-switch motives on 
his part. 
I note the investigators  views on the unregulated  introducer associated with Mr B at the 
time, but I do not have enough evidence  on the full extent of that individuals role before or at 
the time of the switch. I have  not seen evidence that Mr B previously invested in unregulated 
funds or evidence that he previously undertook higher risks in ventures  like CFD trading.
Overall and on balance,  evidence suggests that Mr B was an investor that could and would 
have been influenced, in November 2014,  by suitable and comprehensive regulated  
investment advice with regards to the switch  of SIPP Providers  and, if such a switch was 
suitably advised,  with regards to the underlying investments in the SIPP. I have not seen 
persuasive evidence  to the contrary  or to establish that he was either  insistent upon  the 
switch and unsuitable investments or was pre-determined in this respect at all costs.  The 
conclusion that follows is that suitable  advice from TJM, as treated above, would probably 
have made  a difference and would  probably  have avoided the enabling of unsuitable  CFD 
trading and unsuitable unregulated investments in his pension arrangements.  For the sake  
of completeness, I am satisfied that the unregulated investments he has complained  about  
were unsuitable  for him, given their mismatch with his profile (as stated above) and given  the 
regulators express view at the time that such investments were  unsuitable for retail 
customers.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable  advice. On balance, I consider that Mr B would have behaved differently if he 
was advised not to proceed with the SIPP Provider  switch. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done, but I am satisfied that he wanted to take a step towards  investing,  
having held the HL SIPP in cash for some  time,  and that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given his circumstances and objectives  at the time of advice.
what must  TJM do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  TJM must:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference  must be paid 
Ref: DRN24477298to Mr B in compensation. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
TJM is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr B the deduction  amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation  into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation should  not be 
paid into his pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. If the compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into his pension 
plan, pay it directly  to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income,  so the compensation should be reduced  to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected  retirement  age. For example, if he is likely  to be a basic  rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. If he would have  been  able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN24477299Pay Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset caused  to him.
Provide a calculation  of the compensation to Mr B in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Lifetime (or 
Hartley) SIPPstill 
existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total  
Return  Index 
(prior to 1 
March  2017,  
the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market Income  
Total  Return 
Index)date of 
switch to 
the 
Lifetime  
SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s)  of it) is illiquid  the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to TJM taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes  to. If that is not possible then 
TJM may request an undertaking from Mr B  and he should provide such  an undertaking  
that he repays to TJM any amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid  part(s)) 
in future. 
TJM has raised  concerns about the lack of information required to sustain calculation  of 
redress. Mr B is ordered to engage  meaningfully  and co-operatively with TJM to provide it 
will all information and documentation  relevant to its calculation of redress.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income  or other payment out of the investment should 
be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments,  
to keep calculations simpler, I will accept  if TJM totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr B appears to have  been ready to invest around December 2014  and he had a 
balanced investor profile  based on the evidence addressed  above  so he would 
have been prepared to take some risk in order to achieve a higher return.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
Ref: DRN244772910government bonds.  It is a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Bs profile  is broadly reflected in this benchmark  and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he 
could have obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable  
investments.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order The TJM Partnership Ltd to 
compensate him as set out above  and to provide him with a calculation of the compensation 
in a clear and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2447729