K820x#14The complaint  
Mr Gs complaint is about a loan he has with Harvey & Thompson Limited (Harvey & 
Thompson). He says he was pressurised by them and that they didnt consider whether the 
loan was affordable.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
I think Harvey  & Thompson  did conduct adequate checks  to establish whether the 
loan was affordable.  They considered Mr Gs income and expenditure. I can see that, 
as part of the assessment, they established  Mr G was in employment and checked 
pay slips. I think these  checks  were  proportionate  to the amount to be loaned  and 
that they demonstrated the repayments were affordable.
I dont think theres  evidence that Mr G was pressurised. I note that Harvey & 
Thompson contacted Mr G at work and I think that was reasonable as hed given 
them that number.  But when  Mr G asked Harvey & Thompson to stop contacting him 
at work I can see theyve provided  evidence that they did so.  
Ive listened  to the call Mr G had in which he says he was pressurised into setting up 
a repayment plan. I dont think that was the case.  The agent explained the arrears 
and balance on the account and Mr G suggested a £50 repayment  plan which 
Harvey & Thompson accepted after theyd conducted an affordability check. I dont 
think there was anything in the call that could reasonably  be considered to be 
pressuring or harassing.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Harvey  & Thompson Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228254