K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Arch Insurance  (UK) Limited declined her claim  against  her private 
medical insurance policy. 
Miss Rs complaint about access  to her medical records has been dealt with separately.  
background
In January 2017, Miss Rs GP referred  her to bariatrics for a consultant about weight loss. 
Miss R had read about obalon  a non-surgical,  gastric  balloon treatment  and was keen to 
discuss it further. Miss R sent the referral letter to Arch. 
In February 2017,  Arch said it was unable to provide cover  for Miss Rs treatment. It relied  
on an exclusion in the policy,  which said that it doesnt cover treatment or tests arising from 
or related to obesity or any weight loss treatment or treatment required because  of obesity.  
Miss R says that in August 2017,  she received a new diagnosis  of pseudotumor cerebri. 
Thats a condition in which  increased  pressure around the brain causes headaches and 
vision problems. Miss R says that the only cure for that condition is weight loss. 
In December 2017, Miss R asked  Arch about whether new conditions  were covered under 
her policy and if any specific treatment  was exempt.  Arch provided her with her policy 
documents. 
In April 2018, Miss R asked Arch to review of its decision to decline her claim. Arch 
maintained its position.  
Miss R says that the treatment isnt for weight loss in and of itself but for pseudotumor 
cerebri, which isnt exempt under her policy. She says that Arch didnt offer any other 
suitable or equally effective alternative  treatment, which is unfair. Miss R says that as Arch 
refused her claim, she had to have  the medical  treatment  privately.  She wants  compensation 
and reimbursement of the costs of the medical procedures.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Arch had treated 
Miss R unfairly. The investigator  said that Arch had relied on the policy  terms in declining  the 
claim. 
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman  consider the matter,  
so her complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Arch has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  The central issue  for me to 
decide is whether  Arch acted fairly  in declining Miss Rs claim in relation to her referral to 
bariatrics. I think it did and Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN25555212The starting point  is Miss Rs policy, the relevant  part of which says as follows:
Benefit  is not payable under the policy  for the treatment  or diagnostic tests arising from 
or related to the following:
[]
Cosmetic [] surgery
[]
We do not pay for any treatment, including surgery 
-[]
-Where the intention of treatment, whether directly or indirectly, is the reduction  or 
removal of surplus  or fat tissue including weight loss
[]
Obesity or any weight  loss treatment or treatment required as a result  of obesity. []
Arch says Miss R didnt send it diagnosis letters or medical reports in relation to a diagnosis 
of pseudotumor  cerebri. In declining Miss Rs claim, Arch had the referral  letter  to bariatrics  
from Miss Rs GP. That referral was about  weight loss, the treatment of which  isnt covered 
under Miss Rs policy. So, Arch acted  fairly  in declining her claim both initially  and on review.  
Theres nothing to support  Miss Rs assertion  that any treatment  isnt for weight loss but for 
pseudotumor cerebri. In event, the intention  of the treatment would be weight loss, which is 
exempt under the terms of the policy.
Its not for Arch to offer any other  suitable  or equally effective alternative treatment. Arch 
looks at the course  of action recommended by Miss Rs doctors and has to decide whether 
that comes within the policy terms or not. In this case, it decided  correctly that Miss Rs 
policy doesnt cover  weight loss treatment. 
I dont think that Arch acted unfairly here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2555521