K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the mortgage  broker  fee charged by the appointed 
representative of Stonebridge Mortgage  Solutions Ltd as they didnt receive  a legally binding 
mortgage offer from the lender that Stonebridge recommended.
background
In 2017 Mr and Mrs J engaged an appointed representative of Stonebridge to source them a 
mortgage on a new build  residential property  and agreed an arrangement fee. Stonebridge 
sourced them a lender and they got a preliminary  mortgage subject to conditions. But the 
offer expired  before the conditions could be met as the new build property hadnt been 
finished. The offer couldnt be extended and Stonebridge told Mr and Mrs J they would have 
to make a fresh application.  Mr and Mrs J didnt go through  with this. The Stonebridge 
representative issued  an invoice for his fee. Mr and Mrs J say that they shouldnt  have to pay 
it as the offer was described  as a non-binding preliminary offer that they couldnt accept as 
the property wouldnt  be completed before the offer expired.
Stonebridge says that its representatives terms are that there is a non-refundable fee of 
£295 to be paid once it sourced a lender and after submitting an Agreement  in Principle. 
This was paid. The remainder of the fee was to be paid when Mr and Mrs J received a 
mortgage offer but as a concession is paid on completion of the purchase  or on expiry  of the 
mortgage offer, whichever  is the sooner. Stonebridge says that Mr and Mrs J got a mortgage 
offer on 20 November 2017.  There were only two outstanding conditions which Mr and Mrs J 
had to meet which were  a deed  of consent and a re-valuation  of the property.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  as he felt that as the 
offer from the lender  wasnt a legally binding offer, it meant that in fact a mortgage offer had 
not yet issued. Stonebridge disagreed  saying  in summary that as the broker  had worked to 
get Mr and Mrs J a mortgage offer and had got one, he deserved to be paid his fee.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Stonebridge representative sourced Mr and Mrs J a preliminary mortgage offer from a 
lender dated 17 November  2017. The offer says that its preliminary, not final and that the 
lender is under no obligation to make  a final offer although such an offer will usually follow  
after compliance with a number of conditions.  I note that one of those conditions is TOTAL 
RETENTION No sums will be advanced  until such times as the property build has been  fully 
completed to the reasonable  satisfaction  of the valuer upon  re-inspection. This condition is 
To be satisfied prior to the issue of a binding offer.  But the offer lapsed  before the new 
build was completed and so no binding  offer issued. 
I understand that when the offer lapsed that Mr and Mrs J went to another  mortgage  broker 
for a mortgage and the Stonebridge representative  feels that he should be recompensed for 
the work  he put in to source  the first mortgage.  The original broker  was willing  to source  
another mortgage without a further  fee. The arrangement fee is payable  when  you receive a 
mortgage offer. But this mortgage offer was subject to a condition  - a revaluation - that 
couldnt be fulfilled  during  the period when the offer was open as the property  wasnt 
Ref: DRN20534452finished. I appreciate  thats not the fault of the representative or Mr and Mrs J. But I dont  
believe that it was intended that a fee be paid if the offer couldnt  be translated into a 
mortgage, So, I dont  see how it would be fair to charge a fee for sourcing a mortgage  that 
Mr and Mrs J couldnt then benefit  from.
I also dont consider that a mortgage offer which is preliminary, clearly not binding and 
indeed does not allow Mr and Mrs J to accept it, fulfils the conditions of a mortgage offer as 
contemplated in the fee arrangement.  I appreciate that the lender  has now rephrased the 
way it presents mortgage offers.  But I must consider the way it was presented  to 
Mr and Mrs J. Whilst  Ive considered carefully the representations made  by Stonebridge, for 
the reasons stated I uphold this complaint and direct that Mr and Mrs J shouldnt be liable  to 
pay any further fee.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  that Mr and Mrs J arent  liable to pay 
any further fee to the representative of Stonebridge  Mortgage Solutions Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2053445