K821x#15complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with borrowing she took out 
at a well-known retail store in 1998. Ms S was buying some electronic equipment at the time. 
The account  was branded  with the name of a major retailer and the credit facility was 
provided by a high street  bank. But a company  called Financial Insurance Company Limited  
is responsible for answering Ms Ss complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in May 2019, setting out why I thought  
the complaint  should be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further submissions 
or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  sent in any new information 
or arguments. So theres no reason  for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. Im upholding the complaint.
what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Ms S in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and FICL should:
Pay Ms S the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year from .
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN26303822my final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint and I direct  Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26303823summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) with borrowing she took out at a 
well-known retail store in 1998. Ms S was buying some electronic equipment at the time.  The account 
was branded  with the name of a major  retailer  and the credit facility  was provided by a high  street  
bank. But a company called Financial Insurance Company Limited  is responsible for answering  Ms 
Ss complaint.  
Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken out in the shop and added after Ms S signed  a loan application  form, most  
probably at the counter. Ms S says she doesnt remember agreeing to this. 
Our adjudicator has assessed  this complaint and provided a view that it shouldnt  be upheld. Ms S 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im considering upholding  Ms Ss complaint.
I was sent the agreement Ms S signed when  she took out the account  and PPI. I can certainly see 
quite a few ways in which this form could  have been set out in a better and clearer way, not least  
because the PPI box was already pre-selected with an X. However, its obviously possible  that Ms S 
had agreed  for the form to be printed out with the X on it as a result of a discussion that had taken  
place about what she wanted to do. Weve seen a number of similar sales where  this may have 
happened, so it could have  happened in this case too.  
FICL provided a non-advised sale and this means  it didnt need to make sure the PPI was suitable  
for Ms Ss situation. But it still needed to provide enough  clear information for Ms S to make an 
informed decision about the cover  and this is where I think FICL fell short  of its responsibilities.
The form didnt contain  very clear information about the PPI costs and I cant  see where the monthly 
or total premium  was set out for Ms S. And because  it says those choosing  PPI will have the cost 
notified to them on their statement, it seems to me that consumers had to await their statement to 
find out how much they were  going to be charged for the cover.
Those being sold policies like this had a right to know how much they were  going  to have to pay for 
the cover.  I cant see anywhere that this was done  at the point of sale. However, if FICL wishes to 
point this out to me, or send in more  documents, Ill consider what  it has to say on the matter. 
Its for this reason that I think the policy may have been mis-sold.
Ref: DRN2630382