K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Ms H says Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (trading  as Egg at the time) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
In my provisional decision of 24 January 2019  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint. In response to that provisional decision neither Barclays  nor Ms H had any further 
comments to add.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
Barclays records show that Ms H applied for the PPI through  an internet application 
form. Ive seen  a copy  of the screen Ms H is likely to have seen telling her about  the 
PPI. Theres a yes and a no box where  the customer could choose to take or decline the 
PPI. Barclays record  of the application  data shows that Ms H selected the PPI. 
So from the evidence  Ive seen, I think Barclays made it clear that Ms H didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out, knowing she didnt have to. But I can 
understand why she might not remember that now given  how long ago this policy was 
sold.
Because Ms H applied for her credit card and PPI online, Im satisfied that Barclays 
didnt recommend the PPI to her. So it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms H got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  so it 
couldve been useful  for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN20593062Ive thought about everything Ms H has said  including what shes  told us about her sick 
pay. Ms H has said she would receive  full pay from her employer for up to 12 months if she 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness. But from my experience it is extremely  rare 
for employers to provide such a generous sick pay benefit. And Ms H hasnt given us any 
evidence to show that she was entitled to this level of sick pay. Ive also seen three 
questionnaires that Ms H has completed  with details  of her circumstances around the time of 
the sale, and each of those sets out different details of her sick pay, ranging from three 
months full pay to 12 months full pay. I dont think its unreasonable that Ms H might not 
remember full details  of her sick pay at the time of the sale but given the uncertainty  around 
how much  she was entitled to, I dont  think I can fairly say that she wouldnt have benefitted 
from the PPI policy.
So with all this in mind,  I think  the PPI could have been useful to her if she had been too ill to 
work or had become  unemployed,  so I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
As neither Ms H nor Barclays has said anything to make me change  my mind,  I still dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms H any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont intend to make any further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2059306