K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Mortgage Compare Limited  trading as Mortgage and Insurance  
Professionals (MIP) acted unfairly  and unreasonably when acting as her mortgage broker. 
She wants a county court judgment (CCJ)  removed from her credit records.
background
Ms A wanted a mortgage  and used  MIP as her mortgage broker.  She said that it unfairly and 
unreasonably failed to tell her that her own solicitor wasnt on the lenders panel and she 
needed to use one which was until four weeks before completion. Ms A also said that MIP 
got a CCJ against her when she didnt pay the broker fees, and it was recorded on her credit 
records despite her then paying  the amount claimed.
Ms A complained to MIP. It said that it wasnt told by the lender that Ms A was trying  to use 
non-panel solicitors  until about two months before completion, and it explained the position 
to her when  she asked about it (earlier documents had said that Ms A had to pay two sets of 
legal fees). MIP said that Ms A chose to use two solicitors, and her solicitors  shouldve 
reduced their fees to reflect  the fact that the lender was using its own solicitor. MIP also 
pointed out that it carried  out extra work  for which it didnt charge  Ms A and agreed  to give 
her extra time to pay its fees.  Ms A didnt pay, so it issued  legal  proceedings against  her. 
MIP said that it did tell the court that the case had been settled  when payment in full hadnt 
been made to avoid  the court recording the CCJ in Ms As credit records.
Ms A complained to us. The investigators view was that MIP told Ms A in advance  about its 
fees if she used  its services. The services were  provided so it wasnt unfair  or unreasonable  
for MIP to take legal action. He noted  MIP told the court  that it had been paid when it hadnt 
been paid in full, so it hadnt treated Ms A unfairly  or unreasonably.  The investigator also 
said that MIP did tell Ms A about  the non-panel solicitors in good time for her to change, but 
it couldnt do so until the lender told it that Ms A was using non-panel solicitors. He didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Ms A disagreed. She said MIP shouldve  told her immediately not to use her solicitor, and 
the court has said MIP didnt say the debt had been  settled in full, but if it did, the CCJ could 
be removed. The investigator said MIP wasnt at fault as it had told the court  that the claim 
had been settled. Ms A still disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brokers are entitled to charge fees for work done,  provided they set out their fees to the 
consumer in advance. MIP did this with Ms A, and carried out the work. It even agreed that 
she could have extra time to pay, but she didnt make a payment. I dont think  it was unfair  or 
unreasonable for it to issue legal proceedings and get a CCJ. Once a CCJ is obtained,  its 
for the court to register it, not MIP. MIP tried to help by telling the court  that it had been paid 
when it hadnt,  but ultimately  it isnt responsible for the registration  of the CCJ; Ms A is 
responsible for the CCJs existence by failing to pay the debt in time. Ms A has said that it 
was a condition  of her paying anything that the CCJ was removed, but MIP did tell the court  
the next day that the debt was settled, which would be all thats  required if Ms A is correct.  
MIP isnt responsible for the actions of a court office.
Ref: DRN23838772And I note that Ms A was notified of the need  for two solicitors more  than once in the various 
documents she was given. She didnt ask about  the two fees until about five weeks before 
completion, when  MIP answered  her questions.  There was still time to change solicitors, 
though I accept this wouldve involved making  some payment to the original solicitors. I also 
note that the original  solicitors were recommended to Ms A by the estate agents according to 
her account,  not MIP. MIP cant reasonably have known which firm of solicitors are on a 
particular lenders panel, and the information about the two sets of legal fees was set out in 
the mortgage documents given to Ms A. MIP couldnt have known that Ms A didnt fully 
understand that information until she asked about the position. It also isnt the role of a 
broker to advise about solicitors and their fees  brokers advise on mortgage products.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept  or reject my decision before 
10 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2383877