K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined her pet insurance  claim. My 
references to Great  Lakes include its agents.
background
Ms B took out pet insurance for her dog in February 2018. Great Lakes is the insurer.
In December 2018 Ms Bs dog had treatment  for periodontal disease  (an inflammatory 
disease that damages the soft tissue and bone supporting teeth).  She claimed for the 
treatment on the policy.
Great Lakes declined the claim.  The dogs  vet records in June 2017  said that her dog had 
gingivitis and grade  2 dental  disease,  however pre-molar at level of enlargement seems  to 
have minimal tartar. Great Lakes said that meant  the treatment  in December 2018 was a 
pre-existing medical condition, which the policy didnt cover.
Ms B complained to us, represented by her daughter.  She said in June 2017 the vet didnt 
tell her that her dog had a problem with his teeth and there was no treatment or medication 
prescribed. If shed  been told there was a problem she wouldnt have waited so long to get 
treatment for her dog. Ms B said in December 2018  shed taken her dog to the vet to have a 
small lump on his side checked. As part of the general examination the vet said her dog 
needed a scale,  polish  and maybe teeth extractions which she arranged  straight  away. She 
wants Great  Lakes to pay her claim.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had unfairly declined the claim. There  was no evidence 
Ms Bs dog had received  treatment or medication for his tooth disease in June 2017 or that 
the vet had told Ms B about  the problem.
Great Lakes disagreed and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said a vet was unlikely to 
add a note to a pets  records without telling  the owner about the problem. Great Lakes  
contacted Ms Bs vet practice  which said if a problem was written  in the notes the owner 
would have been told. 
Ms B said shed been told the vet she saw in 2017 wasnt  a regular at her vets branch and 
no longer employed  by the practice  group. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I think  Great Lakes unfairly  declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear that Great  Lakes wont pay for any costs  relating to pre-existing 
conditions. The policy defines pre-existing condition as anything your pet has had 
treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months.
The vet records show Ms Bs dog had the beginnings  of tooth disease in June 2017, which 
was within  24 months  of the policy starting  in February 2018. Theres  no evidence Ms Bs 
Ref: DRN29696932dog had any treatment  for medication  for his teeth in June 2017,  which  Great Lakes  doesnt  
dispute. 
The issue  I need to decide is whether its probable that Ms B received advice about  his teeth 
in June 2017. Looking at all the evidence I think its unlikely Ms B did get advice in 2017. 
I say this because:
although her vet practice says if the information  was in the notes then it would have 
been mentioned to the owner,  I think that's a general statement not specific  to 
Ms B's June 2017 consultation. Great Lakes contacted Ms Bs vet practice  about the 
issue nearly two years  after the consultation. I think it's unlikely that the vet would 
have been able to specifically recall  exactly what Ms B was told at the June 2017 
consultation, particularly  about a comparatively minor issue
Ms B took her dog to the vet in June  2017 about a swelling  around his eye. The 
notes show the focus of the consultation was about  possible treatment options  
around that issue, which supports Ms Bs recollection of that consultation
Ms B took her dog to the vet in December  2018 about a small lump on his side. At 
that consultation Ms B was advised that her dog needed a dental.  When Ms B was 
told her dog had a problem with tooth  disease  which needed treatment she arranged  
for that to happen straight away
Great Lakes email  to the vet said as the vet put tooth disease in the 2017 notes it 
would expect advice  to have been given about  treatment of the disease.  It asked  if 
advice for treatment for the dental issue was given. The vet didnt specifically 
respond on that point.  Ive seen the vet notes for Ms Bs dog since 2015 and its clear  
Ms B is a very diligent owner  in taking her dog to the vet for any issues with his 
health. So I think its more  likely  than not that if shed been advised  her dog had a 
problem with his teeth in 2017 she would have acted  on any advice straight away 
and not waited until 18 months  later.
As I dont think Ms B was advised about  her dogs  problem  with his teeth in 2017 I dont think  
Great Lakes can fairly and reasonably say his tooth disease  was a pre-existing condition  
under its policy  definition. 
Great Lakes must pay the claim subject  to the policy limit and excess (if any), plus interest 
as Ive detailed  below.
I note Ms Bs mentioned her concern that the policy premium has increased substantially, 
and Great Lakes hadnt explained  why. Thats a separate matter and if Ms B wants  to pursue 
that matter shell need  to complain to Great Lakes and can ultimately complain to us.
 
Ref: DRN29696933my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to pay Ms Bs claim subject to the policy  limit and excess  
(if any). If Ms B has already paid the vet interest* must be added  at 8% simple from the date 
of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also 
give Ms B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2969693