K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that she was mis-sold a Free-Standing Additional  Voluntary Contribution 
Scheme (FSAVC) pension policy by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam). This 
was whilst she was working for the National Health Service (NHS).
background
Ms C joined the NHS pension scheme in 1984.  In 1990, Ms C took financial advice from 
Sanlam. Recorded  in the fact find completed  by her adviser at the time, in summary,  it said 
that she:
was in her mid 20s and single;
was employed in a professional role earning  around £10,000 per annum;
had savings of around £3,000; and
was contributing around 6% salary into her NHS  pension.
The application form completed to take out the FSAVC  showed  she expected her retirement 
age to be 60 years. By the time the application  was completed it said she was earning  
around £12,000 per annum. 
Ms C made a monthly  contribution of £26.66 into the FSAVC  plan to be invested in the 
managed fund. She paid this amount into her FSAVC from February  1990  to January 
2019.She ceased to be a member of the NHS pension  scheme  in 2006.
In 2018, through her representative, Ms C complained to Sanlam about the advice she had 
received to join the FSAVC, rather than her employers scheme.  She said if she had been 
given clearer advice  she wouldve opted for added  years. 
Sanlam didnt uphold  Ms Cs complaint. It said the requirements in force at the time were 
contained within the LAUTRO Code of Conduct, and this stated advisers should:
have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational pension scheme; and 
give the consumer  all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in 
question. 
Sanlam said there was no specific requirement at the time to do a cost comparison between 
the FSAVC and her employers AVC. It says this wasnt introduced  until May 1996. It said 
the NHS  scheme  didnt offer an AVC arrangement until early 1991,  so only added years 
wouldve been available to Ms C at the time of purchase.
Given Ms Cs age, Sanlam said that she wouldve only been  able to buy one added  year and 
this wouldve  been costed as a percentage of salary, so her contributions  wouldve increased  
as her salary  increased. So, it said, it wasnt clear  if Ms C was willing or could afford the cost 
of purchasing the added  year.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Cs complaint. She said when considering whether added years  
was a suitable option, three factors were normally considered. These were the persons age 
at the time of advice; the security and stability of employment (including likely salary 
progression); and their attitude  to risk at the time of advice. She concluded that the advice 
Ref: DRN21775482Ms C received was unsuitable having  regard  to these factors. Sanlam didnt accept our 
adjudicators view and so Ms Cs complaint has come to me to decide.
Sanlam said in response to our adjudicators  view,  that as the exact  cost of Ms C purchasing  
the added  year was unknown,  so it wasnt clear if this was affordable.
Our adjudicator responded and said she couldnt see that it was unaffordable, given what  
Ms C was paying into her FSAVC and savings policy at the time (around  4.5%  of salary). 
Also, her main outgoings appeared only to be rent and she was single with no dependants.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
Ive taken into account the rules  in place at the time of the advice. Sanlam had to consider 
the customers financial circumstances, including any rights under  her employers pension 
scheme. I cant  see from the fact find that the adviser  considered or provided  Ms C with any 
advice, or signposted  her towards her employer, to enable her to make an informed choice 
about the options available  to her. Had he done so, given Ms Cs circumstances at the time, 
I think it likely that Ms C wouldve  opted  to purchase added years, rather  than the FSAVC  
she was recommended to. I say this taking into account:
 
the nature of Ms Cs work;
her age and home circumstances;
the likelihood of her remaining employed within the NHS  given her role;
that shed  already  been working  for the NHS  in a professional  role for six years 
before taking out the FSAVC  and  her likely career progression based on her role;
her probable attitude to risk gauged from other  assessments carried  out near the 
time in relation  to other  financial products; and
that Ms C appeared to be committed to paying  into her pension  as demonstrated by 
her contribution history, and the fact that she was also paying into a savings product 
around the same time. So, I cant see that this option wouldve been  clearly 
unaffordable. 
So, I think Ms C has lost out because of what  Sanlam  did wrong.
fair compensation
To put Ms C back in the position she wouldve been  in but for the unsuitable advice, Sanlam 
should carry out a loss calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations,  this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Ms Cs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress  calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Ms Cs pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
Ref: DRN21775483available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms C as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction to allow  
for income  tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25 per cent of the loss would be tax-
free and 75 per cent would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed  to be 20 per cent.  So making a notional  deduction  of 15 per cent 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Ms C 
within 90 days of the date Sanlam receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8 per 
cent per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  it to pay this compensation.
I also order Sanlam to pay Ms C £200 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused to 
her pension planning.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint and order Sanlam  Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to pay fair compensation calculated  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2177548