K820x#14complaint
Miss L made  a claim against her motor  insurance  policy with U K Insurance Limited following 
a road traffic accident. She said they have undervalued  her vehicle after it was declared a 
total loss leaving  her out of pocket.
background
Miss Ls car was declared a total loss after it was involved in an accident  in November 2018. 
Miss L says under  the terms  of the policy she should have been offered a new car 
replacement as her car was less than 12 months old and she was the only registered 
keeper. She says UKI refused to offer the new car replacement and only offered to pay her 
the market value of the car at that time. 
Miss L wasnt  happy with this as the £20,823  offered by UKI only covered the finance 
amount payable. This left her approximately £9000  out of pocket as she had paid a deposit 
when purchasing the car on finance. She says she was unable  to afford to replace the car 
which would cost around £25,000. 
UKI said that because  the manufacturer no longer produced the same car, they were  unable 
to offer Miss L the new car replacement under the policy. The policy  terms also provided for 
an alternative option to pay the market value of the car and that is what they did. So they 
didnt think they had done anything  wrong  in offering this amount. 
An investigator at this service looked at this complaint. He didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong  as the same car was no longer available. He said the policy  terms made it 
clear that any amount  paid would be no more than market value of the car. He concluded  
that UKI had already offered Miss L above  market value of the car and so didnt uphold  the 
complaint. Miss L didnt  agree  with the investigator  and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain.
new car replacement
Miss Ls policy offers a market value settlement should a car be declared  a total loss. But for 
cars that are less than a year old, the policy offers extra cover. I think  the policy  wording is 
clear. If Miss Ls car is declared a total loss, UKI will pay the cost of replacing  the vehicle up 
to its UK market value.  It says that UKI will replace the car with a new one of the same make  
and model if this is available. The relevant policy term is:-
We can only do this if a replacement car is available in the UK and anyone  else who 
has an interest in your car agrees.
If a suitable replacement car is not available, or your car was not supplied  as new in 
the UK, we will pay you the market  value of your car at the time of the loss (less any 
excess that may apply). 
Ref: DRN24996682Paying market value  is a term in the policy and it clearly  says that if replacement of the car 
isnt possible,  a cash market value will be paid. I think  it follows  that if those terms havent 
been met the settlement  UKI offered would be the cars market value. 
Miss L said that the policy terms dont say that the exact same car will be provided under 
the new car replacement.  Whilst I accept  that this is correct, I dont think  the terms need  to 
say that. The difference  here isnt about  a cosmetic  change  in the car. A change in the 
specifications here would mean a different engine, therefore a change  in performance so it 
wouldnt be the same  car. The same  specification car is no longer available and UKI are 
unable to source it, so I think  UKI made a reasonable decision not to replace Miss Ls car 
with one that performed differently.
market value
Miss Ls insurance policy provides for the cars market  value  to be paid where it has been  
declared a total loss. The investigator has explained this services  approach  to car valuations 
in that we dont provide valuations for cars, but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is 
reasonable.
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor- 
trade guides. We find these guides  to be particularly persuasive,  largely  because  their 
valuations are based on nationwide  research  and likely sales figures.  The guides also take 
into account regional variations. We also take all other available  evidence into account, for 
example, engineers reports.
UKIs valuation has been  assessed  by two engineers who thought  the offer was fair and 
reasonable. Our investigator checked  the valuations of Miss Ls car in the motor trade guides 
we use and he also thought UKIs offer was fair. I can see that he checked for the correct  
make, model, mileage  and options  as Miss Ls car. And I can see that the settlement that 
UKI offered is better than the highest valuation  provided by the trade  guides  we use. 
I think UKIs offer was made  correctly  according to our approach  and in line with the policy 
terms. So I think their offer for the market  value of Miss Ls car at the time of its loss is fair 
and reasonable.  I know  Miss L will be disappointed  with my decision but I wont be asking 
UKI to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2499668