K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999  with a credit card. Miss M says she didnt  need  PPI.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Miss M 
disagrees so the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M cant remember much about  the sale but RBS records  show  this was a postal sale.  I 
was sent a copy of Miss Ms original credit  card application form and I can see there was a 
section on it about  PPI. If the applicant wanted  to have  PPI, there was a requirement  for 
them to specifically say so by ticking a box asking  for it. I can see the box was ticked on 
Miss Ms form and she signed  her name  at the bottom of the application form. I think this 
shows that she wanted the policy at the time. 
I was also sent Miss Ms monthly credit card statements and I note that these were showing 
regular charges for Cardholder Protection  Plan. I think this confirms shed asked for the 
PPI. And if she hadnt wanted it, I think Miss M would have wanted to know  what the 
charges were for.
So I therefore think all this shows its more  likely  Miss M consented  to the PPI and would 
have been able to see on the form that it was optional.
As this was all done through the post,  I think  Miss M would have made her own way through  
the application in her own time without any help from anyone  at RBS. So it wasnt an 
advised sale and this means it was for Miss M to decide for herself  what  she wanted  to do. 
RBSs responsibility  was to give information during the sale that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I can certainly see ways in which the form could have  been set out more clearly.  But I dont 
think theres enough for me to say Miss M would have  acted  any differently.
This is because she was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The PPI cover  cost around £0.75 per £100 of the 
outstanding monthly  balance  on Miss Ms card and I dont think  this was unaffordable for her. 
Miss M says she didnt need  the policy because she had sickness  cover  through  her job. Ive 
thought carefully  about this but it doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of use. 
This is because Im afraid  it was for Miss M to determine what  she ought to do  and all the 
evidence seems to show  she wanted  the PPI. The policy could  have reduced  her credit card 
Ref: DRN22683542balance by 10% each month for up to a year if shed  needed  to claim and this would have 
been in addition to any other means  she had at the time. 
So whilst I cant say why she chose the policy, I can see how it could have been useful for 
her. All this means  I dont  think theres enough  for me to say the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt need  to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2268354