K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont let him take out another 
mortgage product  as hes in arears and this came  about because Halifax told him in January 
that because of his financial situation he could have a two month payment holiday. Mr P 
would like do be offered  a new fixed rate mortgage  product.  
background
Mr P had a mortgage with a fixed rate product which came to an end on 31 January 2019 
when the mortgage reverted to the standard variable  rate. Mr P was going to have  difficulties 
making the new monthly payments and says that he spoke to a Halifax  agent  about this in 
January. Mr P says that he was told that he could have a two months payment holiday in 
February and March 2019. But this has meant  that his arrears  increased and Mr P is unable 
to get a new interest rate product or consolidate  his debt with an increased  mortgage.
Halifax says that it doesnt  have a recording of the conversation but has contact notes made 
by the agent who dealt  with Mr P. Halifax says that as Mr Ps account was in arrears that it 
couldnt agree a product  transfer or lend more money on the mortgage. It says that the agent 
agreed with Mr P on nil payments for two months  to facilitate  Mr P who was having  
difficulties with the increased payments.  Our investigator didnt believe that Halifax  acted 
unfairly. Mr P disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking  at Mr Ps account,  I can see that there has been an arrears issue since  the 
beginning of 2018 indicating that Mr P was having difficulties making the monthly  payments 
as they then were. There would be added difficulties when  the mortgage product  ended in 
January 2019.   According to Halifaxs contact notes there were several conversations with 
Mr P in January. Mr P had been paying  £20 on top of his contractual  monthly payments  to 
pay back some of the arrears. But there was a problem because the contractual  monthly 
payment was about to increase.
Ive looked at the notes about the call on 23 January. It seems to have  started as an arrears 
call as the account was in arrears  by £1,824.04. Mr P indicated that he would  welcome a 
lower interest rate but the agent  said that this would only happen if the account was up to 
date which  I understand  is Halifaxs policy. The note says that the agent agreed 2 months  of 
nil payments as Mr P asked for at least 2 months  to give him enough time to look to where  to 
get the money for the new contractual monthly payment. The agent  advised Mr P to call in 
March to discuss his future plans.  In March I noted that there was a call when  Mr P hoped  to 
get a product transfer and/or debt consolidation but was told that this couldnt happen 
because of the arrears  situation.
As I understand it Mr P believes that his position  worsened because Halifax facilitated him 
by allowing him not to make payments for two months. As a result he believes that he 
couldnt get the product  transfer or debt consolidation. But in January Mr P was already in 
arrears and wasnt going to get the product transfer  whilst that situation existed. I believe 
Ref: DRN24906332that Mr P would have  known that his arrears  would be greater after the two months.  One of 
the notes records  that the agent referred  to the expected arrears  of £4,417.52 after 1 March 
which indicates that it was discussed in their phone call.  In January Mr P also had a 
problem getting  an increased mortgage to consolidate his arrears. In order  to get this, Mr P 
would need to show he could afford higher payments than he was able to make  at that time. 
Mr Ps problem  was that in January  he couldnt afford his then payments never mind any 
increased payments.  
I can see that Mr P was under some stress in dealing with this matter. I understand that the 
phone call between Mr P and the Halifax agent is unavailable. But the evidence  suggests 
that Halifax seems to have been trying to assist  Mr P by allowing these two months  without 
payment. Unfortunately  this led to an increase in the arrears.  But  for the reasons set out 
above I dont consider  that the assistance Halifax gave to Mr P deprived him of options  that 
he otherwise would have had. The evidence  suggests  that he wouldnt have been eligible for 
a new mortgage  product  and he was unlikely to have been able to afford  a higher mortgage 
in any event. For r the above reasons I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2490633