K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Covea Insurance Plc handled a claim unfairly  and as a result shes 
required to pay a much higher excess under  a home  insurance  policy.
background
There is a detailed claims history behind the complaint of which the parties are aware so, I 
will not go into everything in detail. Briefly, that there  was a claim in 1998 which resulted in 
part of the property being under-pinned in 2002/3. Miss W noticed further cracks in her home 
around 2007 and in 2010 a claim was handled  by Coveas loss adjusters (Ill call C). Before 
C got involved recommendations had already  been made for a period of monitoring of the 
cracks. 
C inspected the cracks  but explained to Miss W at the time that they felt the cracks  were 
indicative  of differential movement between the two elements of the building following  the 
exceptionally dry summer of 2009. Its apparent that there were no detailed  or explorative 
investigations by C at the time. Some superficial repairs  were  recommended but as they cost 
less than the £1,000  excess,  Covea took no further action other than to record  a subsidence 
claim. In 2011 Covea  increased the policy excess for subsidence claims to £15,000.
Miss W continued  to notice cracking in 2015/2016 and lodged another claim with Covea and 
C was appointed again to attend Miss Ws home, which they did in 2017. Investigations 
started, and continue, and the front section of Miss Ws home has been found to be suffering 
subsidence related damage.  And its believed that this is a result of a tree at the front of the 
property. Miss W is unhappy that shes required to pay a £15,000  excess  as she believes 
Coveas investigation  in 2010  was inadequate. She says an adequate investigation would 
have identified there was subsidence and shed only have been  required to pay a £1,000 
excess.
One of our investigators  explained why she thought Covea should be dealing with the 
current claim under the 2010 claim and so Miss W was liable for the £1,000 excess as 
opposed to £15,000. While she acknowledged C had said the ongoing issues  werent 
present in the 2010 claim she wasnt persuaded. She explained that a representative from C 
has subsequently said that the impact of the tree to the front of Miss Ws home couldnt be 
ruled out as a cause of the cracking reported in 2010. And the investigator said as the 
investigation in 2010 wasnt in-depth or what was usual when subsidence was suspected, 
Miss Ws position was prejudiced, in so far as they may have shown active subsidence and 
so her liability would have been  £1,000 and not £15,000.
Miss W had also raised an issue with the cost of the insurance policy she says was impacted 
by Covea pricing the policy at the 2011  renewal because of subsidence in 2010,  yet not 
dealing with her claim  properly as a subsidence  claim. But the investigator said Covea had 
priced the policy in line with its underwriting guidelines and the risk presented at the time. 
And indeed,  she was satisfied that Covea had acted fairly given the real and present risk of 
subsidence which came  to fruition.
Covea disagreed with the investigator explaining  as follows:
-The original repairs completed in 2002/3 stood well for seven years,
-In 2010 the original  engineers found no issue with the original repairs,
Ref: DRN29513682-A claim  was registered as a precautionary  measure and passed to new loss 
adjusters, C,
-The original engineers no longer had a commercial relationship with Covea as they 
were considered overly  enthusiastic with costly investigations,
-C did find differential movement, but it wasnt getting any worse,
-It wasnt until 2017 that Miss W notified  cracks  re-appearing,
-A detailed inspection found  additional cracking and it was considered to be a result of 
subsidence and a tree was implicated because of a hot summer in 2016,
-The tree has been  removed and no further movement of significance  has been 
noted,
-So, there are three claims, due to three  causes and Covea doesnt accept CUE 
should be amended to note two claims, or that Miss W should not pay the £15,000 
excess.
Covea asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  points in issue in this complaint is whether Covea  has acted fairly by;
-Requiring Miss W to pay an excess of £15,000  for the latest  claim.
-Recording three subsidence  claims on the CUE database.
-Reviewing the risk at 2011 and increasing  the premium based  on the 2010 
subsidence claim.
£15,000 excess
This part of the complaint is inextricably linked  to the 2010 claim, which we know  Covea 
treated as a subsidence claim because thats  how it recorded the matter  on CUE. And 
indeed, the premium increase was a consequence  of recording the 2010 claim as 
subsidence.
The terms and conditions  regarding  the relevant excess  that Miss W was liable for was 
notified and changed in 2011. So, on the face of it, the claim recorded for 2017/18  was 
subject to the £15,000 excess. If though, as Miss W states and the investigator agreed,  the 
later subsidence  damage was something related to the damage in 2010 and could have 
been identified  and dealt with in 2010,  it might be fair and reasonable for it to be considered 
all under the 2010 claim. And that would also impact  the second  and third issues  Ive 
identified.
The known facts  are that from around 2007  Miss W noted cracks appearing in her home. 
She was understandably concerned having  experienced subsidence damage previously.  
Relevant experts were  informed and Covea accepted a claim in 2010  and appointed  C to 
investigate. 
There are no detailed  reports  from that time and its apparent from Cs letter  to Miss W in 
December 2010  that there  werent  any investigations other  than superficial  talking to 
Miss W and looking at the cracks in the property.  Within three days  of the attendance at 
Miss Ws home, C gave its final reply. Im mindful  of Coveas  duties under relevant industry  
rules (ICOBS) which included;
Ref: DRN29513683-handle claims promptly and fairly, 
-provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim
-not unreasonably  reject a claim.
In thinking carefully  about what happened  in 2010 I note the experts  involved in the original  
subsidence repair recommended further  investigation and monitoring of the cracks  Miss W 
had reported.  And Im mindful of Miss Ws information that cracks were  first noted  in 2007. 
Covea instructed C, as it didnt use the previous experts because  it thought  they 
unnecessarily over-investigated things,  and C carried out a superficial inspection. But the 
property had previously  suffered  subsidence  and I think that history,  together  with previous 
experts recommendations,  reasonably  warranted  more than a superficial investigation by C. 
Indeed, when a more  thorough investigation  was carried  out in later years when Miss Ws 
property was still suffering  cracks, the impact  of a tree to the front of the property  was found 
to be proximate to the property  movement.  I am satisfied that Covea should  have  carried  out 
a more detailed  investigation in 2010.  And I think its likely the impact of the tree could have  
been discovered in so far as whether it was or was not impacting downwards movement.
Ive considered the information our investigator  obtained from Coveas loss adjuster. He said 
the extent of the cracking in 2017 was more than was seen in 2010,  and there was 
subsidence in 2010 but within  the excess amount. He said its not inconceivable that it was a 
consequence of the same downward movement to the front of the building which was 
discovered as tree related  in 2017. The loss adjuster said if movement / cracks had been  
notified within five years of the visit in December 2010 then it would likely consider the 
cracking to be a continuation of what was found  in 2010. But here,  Miss W waited longer 
than the five years point.  I understand why Miss W waited because she thought  the cracks 
were settlement in the same way that had been explained to her in 2010. But I note her 
information that cracks started to appear  again  from 2015.
The impact  of weather  conditions on damage  caused by tree root induced  clay shrinkage is 
not a constant   unusually  dry and unusually wet conditions will result  in more visible 
movement but that doesnt mean  the tree roots arent having an impact in more  stable 
weather conditions. So, for example,  Miss W noted cracks appearing in before 2010 but C 
dismissed it without anything other than a superficial investigation. When  further cracks were 
reported later, and a full investigation done,  the impact  of the tree became apparent. But Im 
not persuaded from what Covea has provided, that it has shown on balance  the cracks in 
2010 werent related to the tree. 
Now, the other way to look at it is whether Miss W has demonstrated on balance that the 
2010 cracks were  a consequence of tree root induced subsidence. Her property had a 
recent history of subsidence and new cracks  were  considered worthy of monitoring and 
further investigation by the experts  involved with the initial claim. Miss W did what  she 
considered the right thing in reporting the damage and there was nothing  more she could 
reasonably have done at that time. Miss W has said that cracks appeared before she 
contacted C in 2017 but she was under the impression  that these were  more settlement 
cracks, like she was told by C in 2010.  
I should say this is finely balanced  but weighing everything carefully  Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable the £1,000  excess should apply. The fact that cracks appeared after 2010,  in a 
way thats been recognised as a result of the relationship between weather conditions  and 
the tree roots, Im persuaded  its fair and reasonable to conclude that the cracks noted by 
Miss W in 2015/16 and reported  in 2017  are likely  to be related by cause (tree roots)  to 
Ref: DRN29513684those in 2009/10. And in all likelihood, this was a continuation from 2010 given the finding 
that the original  subsidence work  completed  in 2002/3 remained in good order.
Three subsidence claims or two
This isnt straightforward but as Ill explain I think the fair outcome is for two claims to be 
recorded. On the information available it appears  that since the tree has been  removed  
Miss Ws property  has become stable. So, it reasonably follows in my view that a fair 
investigation in 2010 would have  identified the tree root issue  and that would have  been  
dealt with. The consequences of that would have been stability  as is seen in Coveas latest 
investigations. Im satisfied Covea must amend the CUE database  to record two claims. 
Premium increases
Given Im satisfied Miss W had a valid subsidence claim in 2010 Im persuaded Covea acted  
fairly by including that in its review of the risk and the impact of that risk on the premium  
payable. Im not persuaded Covea needs to do anything about  this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Covea Insurance Plc to do the following;
Record the 2017 claim  as commencing in 2010
Amend the CUE database to record the fact so two subsidence claims are recorded  
rather than three
Apply the policy excess applicable in 2010, which  is £1,000
oFor the avoidance of doubt, future  subsidence  claims will be subject to the 
current policy excess
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2951368