K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI at the same  time as applying for a mortgage during a branch  
meeting. The policy  was designed  to protect  Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  payments in the 
event either  of them couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy cost £10 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit to meet their mortgage 
payment (plus an additional  amount  of around  £23 a month)  for up to 12 months  per claim. 
The policy was established  on a 60/40  benefit  split in favour of Mr M.
At the time Mr and Mrs M say they were employed  and Mr M was entitled  to six months full 
pay followed  by six months  half-pay as well as redundancy  pay. They indicated they had no 
other means  they could use  such as savings   to make their mortgage payments. Finally  
they said they were  both in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  They said they thought Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong  or inappropriate for 
them. So they said Barclays didnt need to give them  back what they paid for the policy.
But Barclays  later said that it would give back some of what Mr and Mrs M paid because of 
the high commission  and profit share  they paid in their premiums.
Because Mr and Mrs M disagree  with the adjudicators findings,  the complaint comes  to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
I dont intend to set out in detail the above considerations, but in summary I think they can be 
distilled down into three broad questions:
If Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs M, did it do so with reasonable care and skill  was PPI 
suitable for them?
did Lloyds provide Mr and Mrs M with clear,  fair and not misleading information about  
the policy drawing  their attention to and highlighting the significant features, 
limitations and exclusions  of cover?
If the answer to either of the above is No, I then need to go on and consider if and to 
what extent Mr and Mrs M have  lost out as a result  and what fair compensation is.
Having considered the above and the information  provided by both parties to this dispute,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms mis-sale  complaint.  My reasons are set out below.
Ref: DRN29896362did Mr and Mrs M choose to take out PPI?
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that PPI was optional.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they were told or given the impression they had to have PPI to get 
the mortgage.
Lloyds has provided  some of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  Looking firstly at the 
mortgage application  here I can see there  was a separate insurance section where it 
asked Mr and Mrs M if they wanted to apply for PPI. And there is a tick in the Yes  box. 
There was also the option to tick the No box, which in my view was equally prominent - Mr 
and Mrs M couldve selected this if they didnt want PPI.
The mortgage application referred  to the need  to complete a separate  PPI application to take 
out the cover and Lloyds has provided  Mr and Mrs Ms application. I can see here that all of 
the necessary  information about  the cover was completed  for example how the benefit 
should be split  after which Mr and Mrs M signed the overall  application. In addition  to this 
they also signed a separate direct  debit mandate to allow the PPI premiums to be taken from 
their bank account.
Im mindful that I dont  know what the adviser  said to Mr and Mrs M or how the PPI was 
introduced to them during the meeting. But Ive not seen anything on any of the paperwork  
which says or implies that PPI was necessary for Mr and Mrs M to get their mortgage. In fact 
looking at the advisers  lending  submission  notes about the merits of Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage application, it appears  their application  for lending was a strong  one based  on the 
low loan to value ratio; their stable employment  and income; and their banking/credit history.  
There is no mention here about them taking out PPI or having to have it to support the 
mortgage application.
Overall Im not persuaded  by what Mr and Mrs M say happened at the time of the sale.  I 
think the evidence  shows Lloyds made  it clear  PPI was optional and they chose to take it out 
 and they did so without  undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both parties  say this was an advised  sale where  Lloyds recommended PPI. This means  
Lloyds had to ensure  that what it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M in addition  to 
telling them all they needed to know about  the recommended cover so they could make an 
informed decision about it. I kept this in mind in my consideration of this complaint.
the advice
The evidence provided shows  that the adviser had some information about  Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time. This included their occupation; their annual  income;  
corresponding monthly income; and their monthly  expenditure / outgoings. But the available 
evidence doesnt  show that the adviser  asked questions about Mr and Mrs Ms health or 
established what existing  means Mr and Mrs M already had at the disposal to maintain their 
mortgage payments  if something went wrong  for example  any entitlement  to sick pay or 
any savings they held.
Ref: DRN29896363So I cant say that Lloyds did act fairly and reasonably towards  Mr and Mrs M when it 
advised them to take out PPI  it didnt advise  with reasonable  care and skill.
But in light of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time, I think  PPI was ultimately suitable 
for them  it wasnt wrong for Lloyds to have  recommended it. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs M were  both eligible for the cover;
they were both employed and in good  health at the time, so they werent caught by 
the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover, which might have made it 
unsuitable;
they appear to have  had a need  for cover  despite  Mr Ms entitlement  to sick pay. The 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and for longer if necessary. And Mr 
and Mrs M didnt  have any other  means they could  fall back  on if any of the insured 
risks occurred.  So I think PPI couldve played  a useful part in helping Mr and Mrs M 
protect their mortgage payments  and ultimately their home; 
the policys benefit split was appropriate based  on Mr and Mrs Ms income; and
the PPI was affordable as demonstrated by the income and expenditure recorded by 
the adviser.
the information
Given the context  of a meeting about a mortgage, I think  Mr and Mrs M were  given  a broad 
understanding of what  the PPI was  at the very least the application itself described it as 
payment protection insurance. And I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve agreed to go ahead 
with something  including signing a direct  debit mandate   without knowing something 
about it and its cost.
But the evidence  doesnt persuade me that Lloyds did all that it should fairly and reasonably 
have done  for example  I cant see when  and how the cost was disclosed to Mr and Mrs M 
or how the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover were drawn to their attention.  They 
likely received a policy  document  from Lloyds after the sale,  but they didnt base their 
decision on this document. So I accept there were likely failings here.
But I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve likely been  put off taking out PPI had Lloyds done 
anything more. 
Ive already said that I think Mr and Mrs M had a need for cover.  They also werent affected 
by the things the policy didnt cover. They  might  not have fully understood how much the PPI 
was going to cost.  But I think they wouldve had some idea of it when they decided  to buy it. 
And in my view the cost was not significant.  I also dont think the policy operated  
fundamentally differently from what Mr and Mrs M expected based on the information they 
were given and found  acceptable.
So overall I dont  think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result  of taking out PPI with their 
mortgage. The policy was suitable for them and there was nothing about the cover which I 
think they wouldve  been put off by had Lloyds done anything more.  
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Ref: DRN29896364Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
So Lloyds should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr and Mrs M the 
difference between  what  they owe and what they wouldve owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr and Mrs 
M 8%* simple interest if they paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs M have not lost out to the 
extent that Lloyds Bank PLC needs to pay back everything they paid for PPI.
But Lloyds Bank PLC will pay back some  of what they paid as Ive detailed above.  I make no 
other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2989636