K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996.  Mrs Z says National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Zs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Nat West made it clear that Mrs Z didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say 
this because she has ticked  the box on the credit  card application form to say that, 
yes, she wants the PPI, when she couldve have ticked  another box to say no, she 
didnt want the PPI. And she has signed  next to the ticked  yes box.
Nat West says it didnt recommend the PPI or advise Mrs Z to take it. Mrs Z thinks  
Nat West might have recommended it to her. If it did, Nat West was required to sell 
Mrs Z a policy that was suitable  for her and I think it did. I say this because,  based  on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Although  she had 6-12 months 
of sick pay entitlement  from her employer, she had no savings, and the PPI would 
have paid out 10% of the outstanding  balance on her credit card for up to 12 months 
in addition to her sick pay, or if she lost her job. And at 79p per £100  of the balance 
on her credit  card, it looks like the PPI was affordable  for her. So I think Mrs Z would 
have found this cover useful.
Nat West also had to make sure Mrs Z got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. Its possible the information  Nat West gave Mrs Z about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover  and as Ive said above the policy  was suitable for 
her so I dont think better  information about  the PPI would have put her off taking  out 
the cover. 
So overall I think Mrs Z would have taken out the policy even if she were  better  
advised and fully informed, so she hasnt  lost out due to anything Nat West did 
wrong.
Which means Nat West doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Z.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Z has said and her points dont change my decision.
But Nat West has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Z because:  
Nat West got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs Z about  that. Because Nat West didnt tell Mrs Z, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN26849392To put that right, Nat West has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Z.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs Z any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Z to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2684939