K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way that their home emergency  claim was dealt with by 
Covea Insurance  plc. The policy is a branded  one sold through  a retailer,  and the claim was 
handled through a loss adjusting firm. For convenience I shall refer to Covea throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs C contacted  Covea on 7 August 2018 as they had discovered a leak coming 
through the ceiling from their upstairs kitchen. Covea sent out an emergency plumber the 
same day, who stopped  the immediate leak. But next day Mr C noticed the leak was still 
ongoing. The same  plumber returned that day and found a second leak which he stopped. 
That plumber couldnt carry  out trace and access but thought there  may be further leaks. 
Mr and Mrs C requested  a further visit to deal with this. They  were  offered a late evening 
visit but they preferred to have one at 09:00  the next day.
On 9 August  an engineer was booked  to come out to do the trace  and access. He didnt 
come at 09:00 as promised but they were then told he was due to come out between 9 and 1 
which they werent happy with. Mr and Mrs C were assured that he would be carrying out 
repairs but were told by the engineer  over the phone that he would  only be quoting  for the 
work. Mr C spoke  to Covea and was assured  that wasnt the case. The engineer  arrived and 
said he couldnt do the work  as it would involve going through  the ceiling and he suspected  
asbestos might be present. Mr C told him to leave.  He saw the engineer was still sitting  
outside in his van and he took a photo  so as to identify the company and the registration 
number. He tells us that the engineer then took a photo of him and threatened to put it on 
social media. Mr and Mrs C were  very distressed by this.
Covea sent out an engineer for a further visit on 10 August. This time he managed  to carry 
out a repair  by lifting part of the kitchen floor. He found three or four leaks  in the waste pipe 
which he fixed. Mr and Mrs C were advised  that more  extensive work might be needed as 
there may be further leaks,  but this would have to be done  under the buildings  policy. Mr C 
has advised that he has had the repairs done for less than the excess, so didnt need to 
make a claim.
Covea said that given the distress Mr and Mrs C had clearly experienced as a result  of the 
claim, it was prepared to offer them £200  as an ex-gratia payment.  It said it couldnt take any 
action concerning the engineers behaviour as hed denied taking a photo  or making threats.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately thought that the £200 offered was 
sufficient and in line with the awards  we make  in similar circumstances. Mr and Mrs C 
werent happy with that.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the first two visits and the fourth visit, I think Covea  and its contractors acted fairly. They 
were emergency call-outs and it was reasonable to believe the work the first plumber did to 
stop the leak was sufficient. On the second  call-out,  he stopped  a different leak but made it 
Ref: DRN23311602clear that he couldnt  do further trace and access.  As this was a claim under the home 
emergency cover in their policy, I think this was reasonable. And on the fourth call out, the 
problem was resolved.  Leaks  can be difficult to trace especially where  there may be multiple 
leaks.
I think for the third visit, Covea did fail to give an adequate service to Mr and Mrs C. I dont 
think that offering  a late evening appointment for an emergency callout  was unreasonable.  
But they were assured  by the claims adviser  at Covea that the engineer was instructed to 
carry out repairs. They were also told he would be attending at 09.00  . But the engineer  had 
clearly been told by his company that he was to attend simply to do a quote  and arrived  
between 9 and 1. This was despite attempts by Coveas claims adviser to make it clear  to 
the company that he was expected to carry out repairs.
When the engineer  did attend  he suggested there may be asbestos  in the ceiling and that 
the job was too extensive  bearing in mind the £1,500 limit on the emergency cover. Mr C 
says his property  is too old to have asbestos,  although if the engineer thought  the ceiling had 
artex in it (which often  contains asbestos), it would have been  reasonable not to cut through  
the ceiling. The fact that the other plumbers who attended had no such  concerns leads me to 
think the engineer  didnt  assess  the job properly. In those circumstances I think  that 
Mr and Mrs C were justifiably annoyed that the work  wouldnt be done  that day.
The fact that the engineer went out and sat in his van must have also been  annoying.  Mr C 
admits taking a photo of the van, not of the engineer, who cant be seen in the photo. But 
what happened next is disputed. Mr C says the engineer took a photo of him and threatened 
to put it on social media.  The engineer denies  this and has provided a written statement of 
what he says happened..
Our investigation procedure involves speaking  to the parties, and reviewing the documents.  
There were a number of telephone calls with Covea which Ive also listened  to. But we arent 
a court  of law. We have no power to force parties  to give evidence  or to cross examine them 
under oath. I understand that Mr and Mrs C have  given  their genuine recollection of what 
happened. But as this is contradicted by the engineer, I dont think that I can safely  say, 
where there  is a dispute, whose testimony  I prefer and therefore, what is most likely to have 
happened. Because of that I cant make any findings  about the engineers  conduct.  
As the final visit by an engineer resolved the leak problem, the compensation offered is for 
the confusion  caused by the third visit. And I agree that Mr and Mrs C were  led to expect 
their leak would be repaired  that day which didnt happen because the engineer wouldnt 
carry out the repair Covea expected him to do, partly because  he had the wrong  instruction 
from his company. Covea  has offered £200. Whilst I recognise Mr and Mrs Cs distress,  the 
matter was resolved  the next day. I think the sum is fair and reasonable compensation,  and 
in line with awards we have  made in similar  cases.
If Mr and Mrs C want  to accept Coveas offer, they should get in touch with it directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. I make no award  against Covea Insurance plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Ref: DRN23311603Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2331160