K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wouldnt let him reject a car.
background
In June 2018 Mr C acquired a car funded with a fixed sum loan agreement. It cost £7,900,  
was some three years old and had done  just less than 35,000 miles. In slightly over a week  
Mr C encountered some problems with the car and took it back to the dealer. The front discs 
and pads were replaced and he let Hitachi know that he wanted  to reject the car and cancel 
the agreement.
Shortly after this, Mr C reported  further issues with the car and it was taken into a specialist 
on 3 July 2018. This identified a problem with the NSF shock absorber. On 13 July Mr C 
notified Hitachi that he wanted  to reject the car. The car was returned to the dealership on 19 
July 2018 and both front shock absorbers  were replaced, the back seat was repaired and the 
oil and petrol were replaced,  as a gesture of goodwill. The problems continued and the front 
anti roll bar was replaced, in early  August 2018.
Mr C complained to Hitachi, but it said that as all the repairs had been carried out it was 
closing his complaint.  The matter was brought to service where it was considered  by one of 
our investigators. She recommended it be upheld.
In addition to the faults which had occurred shortly after purchase Mr C said he had been 
misled about the cars performance and the satnav. The adjudicator  noted  that Mr C had 
asked to reject the car after it had been repaired and this indicated  he hadnt  simply 
accepted those repairs as Hitachi had suggested.  She thought an independent inspection  
may be useful. The report was carried out and found  no current  issues.
The investigator noted the report was unusually brief and didnt show  the authors  
credentials or confirm  that it was independent. She accepted brakes were a wear  and tear 
item but she thought the shock  absorbers  shouldnt have required replacing so soon.  She 
also noted from the 99 Point Vehicle  Safety  Inspection report  dated 30 May 2018, that the 
OSF Shock  Absorber with top mount was replaced. This suggested to her that there  was an 
issue with the shock absorbers, or at least one of them, prior to the sale.
In the circumstances she didnt think a reasonable person  would expect this and therefore  
she didnt believe the car was of satisfactory quality  at the time of sale. As this issue started 
within the first 30 days, in fact it appears  to have started before the car was sold she thought  
Mr C shouldve been allowed to reject it when he made this request, at the latest  by 13 July 
2018.
Hitachi didnt agree and asked the dealer for its comments. It said that the issues Mr C 
encountered were  due to wear and tear. It said the law didnt entitle the consumer to reject a 
car unless  there is a serious problem that made the car unroadworthy. It said the car didnt 
have any serious defects and the serviceable items had been replaced and this had been 
authorised by Mr C. Hitachi also expressed concern that the independent report which  the 
investigator had suggested had then been discounted.
Ref: DRN29424702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Hitachi is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The car was not particularly  old and hadnt  done  a high mileage so the expectation would be 
that it was in good working order. This was reinforced by the 99 point check list carried out 
by the dealer. I would  assume that any issues identified in that pre-sale check would have 
been addressed.  However, within a matter of days Mr C had encountered  problems  and 
asked to reject the car.
He was told by the dealer to contact  Hitachi and did so 15 days  after purchase. His partner 
explained that the car was behaving  erratically such that she wouldnt use it. The car was 
taken back to the dealer which carried out repairs. Shortly  after this the car was examined by 
another garage which identified a problem with the shock absorber. The pre-sale check  
indicated an issue with this and a rejection request was made. 
However, the dealer effected a repair, but Mr C remained unhappy. I see Hitachis notes 
refer to Mr C taking  a test drive with a mechanic from the dealership  during  which  a noise 
can still be heard. That indicates the problem still hadnt been fully remedied.  It is not clear  
why given the number of requests to reject,  and the number of repairs,  that somebody  didnt 
stand back and consider the situation  and look more  closely  at rejection as a solution to the 
problem. 
It seems  that an approach  was taken that a series of repairs were carried  out when it may 
have been better to allow Mr C to reject the car. 
I have noted the independent report which was undertaken more recently. This was 
suggested by the investigator was concerned about  the appropriate levels  of redress  given 
Mr C still had concerns about the car. It is unusually brief and no professional details  of the 
Ref: DRN29424703inspector are supplied.  I see the company which carried out the inspection are not 
apparently motor specialists. I have  not ignored  its findings, but I do not find them as helpful  
as I would expect,  or as persuasive. 
Mr C says he is still encountering problems with the car, but while  I have no reason  to doubt 
his comments I have  seen  no evidence to support them. So we have two views as to the 
current state of the car. However, I dont consider that to be a determining  factor  as my 
decision is based on what happened  when Mr C asked to reject  the car after a series of 
problems surfaced all within  a short time of purchase and certainly with one being a known 
issue.
I consider this to be a finely balanced decision and after much  deliberation I have concluded  
that I should uphold the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
allow Mr C to reject the car and to collect it from him at no cost,
remove all information from Mr Cs credit file in respect of this agreement,
refund  a proportion  of his monthly  payments for the time that Mr C didnt have use of 
the car, i.e. when  it was in a garage  and he wasnt provided with a courtesy car
pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused by 
supplying him with a car that was not of satisfactory  quality and the efforts  he has 
had to put in to resolve this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2942470