K820x#14complaint
The Trustees complain  that Aberdeen  Standard  Capital Limited (ASC) - previously 
Standard Life Wealth - didnt manage  the Trust portfolio  in line with the investment mandate, 
in particular that investment in the Strategic Investment Allocation Fund (SIA fund) was 
inappropriate. 
The Trustees also complain that reviews were not undertaken to assess the Trusts ongoing 
capacity for risk. They  complain the lack of reviews  is contrary  to the terms of business. 
background
In 2011 the late Mr B and Mrs B as settlors  of the Trust agreed  with ASC that it would 
manage the Trust investments in accordance with an agreed mandate. The Trustees 
complained because ASC placed  around 35% of total funds in its SIA fund which they argue  
is a hedge fund which investment went specifically  against the wishes  of Mr B and Mrs B.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  I made  the following key findings:
The terms of business set out the risk of investing in funds generally and identified a 
potential risk that short selling and leveraged trading could take place.
The SIA fund Key Investor Information  Document  (KIID) explained that the fund had 
the risk profile that it had (five on a scale of one to seven) for various reasons one of 
which was making  use of derivatives resulting in the fund being leveraged.
The documents made clear that the funds the portfolio invested in could potentially 
use leverage.
The restriction that no transactions which resulted in a leveraged portfolio will be 
entered into was included in all ASC Target Return portfolios (which portfolios 
included the SIA fund) shows it wasnt intended that the restriction was meant to refer 
to the SIA fund.
I dont think the Trustees were  misled by the restriction into thinking that the SIA fund 
wouldnt carry out transactions involving  leverage  given  the information they had 
about the fund.
The wording of the restriction relates  to the portfolio itself being  leveraged  and Im not 
satisfied that because the SIA fund itself could use leverage this meant the portfolio 
would become leveraged.
Mr B and Mrs B indicated in the Gola Questionnaire that they completed that they 
preferred not to invest in hedge funds.
Im not satisfied that the SIA fund is a hedge fund but even  if it was a preference  isnt 
the same  as an absolute  bar - such as for the fixed interest  investments  Mr B and 
Mrs B made clear  they didnt want to invest in.
Investing 35% in the SIA fund was a significant  part of the portfolio, but I dont think  
this was too much given  the purpose  of the fund was to counterbalance  the more 
traditional assets in the portfolio and reduce volatility.
The SIA fund hadnt performed as expected but this isnt evidence of 
mismanagement of the portfolio.
Under the terms of business ASC shouldve offered a review  meeting at least once  a 
year but were not responsible for providing ongoing advice on the suitability of the 
portfolio after a new adviser was appointed  in July 2013
Ref: DRN26383352There was no reason the adviser or Trustees couldnt have asked for a meeting  if 
they had concerns or wanted a review, but I had seen no evidence requested this. 
Even if a meeting  had taken place after 2013,  I wasnt satisfied this wouldve led to a 
change in the portfolio as there was no persuasive evidence to show  this.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Mrs H on behalf  of the trustees  made the 
following points:
She was disgusted and disappointed  with the provisional decision.
Mr B really  meant  no hedge  funds  when he said preferably not.
It was funny how much ASC put into its own fund.
The ombudsman hasnt taken  into account  everything they have said.
It is their word  against that of ASC and the ombudsman has taken the word of ASC 
and hasnt been impartial.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mrs H has said her disgust and disappointment at my provisional  decision and 
her belief that I have  just accepted what ASC has said.  I appreciate  that she has strong 
feelings about this. But I need  to base my findings on the available evidence, and I dont 
think this shows that ASC did something wrong in its role as discretionary portfolio manager 
of the trust portfolio.
I acknowledge that she believes I have not been impartial and that I havent considered 
everything that has been said on behalf of the trust,  but that isnt the case. I have  considered 
all the evidence provided by both parties  and I have made my findings on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not. If I havent referred to some point, or piece of 
evidence, it is because  I dont think I need  to make  a finding  on that point to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision.  
I note what Mrs H has said about  Mr B meaning  no hedge funds when he said preferably 
not. This is a good example of where  a finding  needs to be made on a balance of 
probabilities. There  is no evidence to support what Mrs H has said and given  that Mr B and 
Mrs B were  happy to make clear that they didnt want to invest in fixed interest assets  I can 
see no reason they didnt  do the same for hedge funds if that was their intention. So, based  
on the available evidence I think it is more likely than not Mr B intended  to express  a 
preference, as was recorded.
In the absence of any additional information  or evidence that would lead me to change  the 
findings in my provisional decision there is no basis for me changing those findings.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Mrs H and Mr 
B (the Trustees) to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26383353
Ref: DRN26383354COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The Trustees  complain that Aberdeen Standard Capital  Limited (ASC) - previously Standard Life 
Wealth - didnt manage the Trust  portfolio in line with the investment mandate, in particular that 
investment in the Strategic  Investment Allocation  Fund (SIA fund) was inappropriate.  
The Trustees  also complain  that reviews were not undertaken to assess the Trusts ongoing capacity 
for risk. They  complain the lack of reviews  is contrary to the terms of business.  
background
In 2011 the late Mr B and Mrs B as settlors of the Trust agreed with ASC that it would manage the 
Trust investments in accordance with an agreed mandate. The Trustees complained because  ASC 
placed around 35% of total funds in its SIA fund which  they argue is a hedge  fund which investment 
went specifically against  the wishes of Mr B and Mrs B.
ASC in its final response made the following points:
As far as it was aware Mr B, as a potentially vulnerable client, wasnt making decisions 
himself but with the help of Mrs H - who implemented the same portfolio strategy.
Mr B was fully engaged in discussions and it was explained the SIA fund was an integral part 
of the overall portfolio,  designed to reduce volatility.
There were  reviews in the first couple  of years  with the last review being  in December 2013.
The portfolios were  mandated to a new advising firm in July 2013.
A new Client Portfolio  Manager (CPM) was appointed at the end of 2013 and he has always  
made himself available for meetings  but has not been asked for one.
Detailed quarterly reports have been sent.
The adviser  has confirmed to ASC that that he is responsible for the suitability of the portfolios 
on an ongoing basis so there has not been a need for the CPM  to meet with the client to 
review the needs of the Trust.
The objective of the portfolio was preservation and the clients had been  referred to ASC 
because of concerns over equity market volatility  and the effect this could have on 
investments.
In the goal questionnaire that was completed one response was in relation  to concerns over 
losses over 5% which fits with the referral  to it because of concerns over volatility.
This response together with other responses to the questionnaire indicated that a medium risk 
portfolio targeting  a return of LIBOR  + 3% would  be appropriate.
Between 2009 and 2011 when  equity markets experienced high levels of volatility the SIA 
fund provided very good returns  by diversifying  beyond traditional  assets  classes such  as 
equities.
The SIA fund isnt a traditional hedge fund and shouldnt be viewed in isolation.
The portfolio as a whole isnt leveraged, and has never been leveraged.
If less than 35% was in the SIA fund it is unlikely it could reduce  volatility enough  to achieve 
the clients  requirement  of preservation.
The LIBOR + 3% strategy  performance has fallen below expectations but has produced  a 
positive return.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and first dealt with our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. I have not set out the investigators opinion on this as it is no longer in issue that we have 
jurisdiction to consider the whole complaint.  I set out below the key points made  by the investigator on 
the merits of the complaint.
Ref: DRN26383355ASC was given discretion in their management of the ISAs and Trust  in accordance with the 
objective of wealth preservation with a medium  risk profile.
The investment restrictions and constraints  were no transaction  which results in a leveraged 
portfolio will be entered into (i.e. borrowing and short  selling)
ASC didnt guarantee performance and he is considering its management of the portfolio in 
terms of the agreed mandate not the performance.
Based on what ASC has said the portfolio  manager made  investment decisions tailored to a 
group of clients, with the same  assets in their portfolios, rather than an individual client.
The investment in the SIA fund,  which could hedge, is contrary  to the restrictions on 
investment that were placed at the outset. So, the investment management wasnt in line with 
the mandate agreed and so he was upholding  this part of the complaint.
It is unlikely that SLW  had any obligation to give ongoing reviews after a new financial adviser 
was appointed  in July 2013
For the period  up to July 2013  he hadnt seen anything that persuaded  him that there was a 
duty to provide reviews at specific  intervals  or that ASC failed  to arrange  a review when 
requested. So, he wasnt satisfied it had failed  in its obligations in this regard so wasnt 
upholding this part of the complaint.
It is unlikely that the late Mr B was vulnerable so that ASC needed  to do more to protect  him. 
And even  if he had been  it is unlikely this would affect the compensation payable.
ASC didnt  agree with the investigator. In short it made the following points:
It uses investment models aligned to the parameters agreed with the client to construct  a 
portfolio of investments  which is reviewed and balanced by it on an ongoing basis to ensure 
the investment  mix remains in line with the parameters.
In this case the clients proceeded with the Target Return Portfolio with a medium risk level.
No transactions  have  been undertaken which would result in the clients portfolios  being  
leveraged as no investments have been purchased  using  borrowed money  and nor have any 
assets been sold short.
No investments have been made  which increases the clients exposure to more than what 
they originally invested.
The restriction  in the Objectives and Restrictions document,  about  not carrying  out a 
transaction that results  in a leveraged portfolio, is a generic restriction applied to all Target  
Return portfolios and not a bespoke restriction requested  by the clients.
The SIA fund  like many other investment funds  makes certain  investments  which can 
result in the fund being leveraged but this isnt the same  as leveraging the portfolio itself.
Ms H made the following comments:
Mr B was 84 years  old at the time ASC started to manage his portfolio. He had spent  a 
lifetime investing in shares but no longer felt competent to do so. He no longer followed the 
market and hadnt invested in the previous three years.
Mr Bs eyesight  and health deteriorated over the following years which  ASC wouldve known if 
it had kept to the agreement.
Had he been offered a review meeting  ASC wouldve realised the extent of his vulnerability 
and frailty
Regardless of whom  the financial  adviser  was ASC still had a duty as discretionary portfolio 
managers to make sure the investments  were still suitable and meet  with the trustees.
The investigators proposed benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  
Return Index has a 42.6% equity holding and a more comparable benchmark  to the SIA fund 
would be the FTSE UK Private Investor Balanced Index which has 56% equity holding.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26383356There are two issues in this complaint. The first is whether  investing in the SIA fund was a breach  of 
the agreed investment  mandate.  The second is whether ASC failed to provide the service it shouldve 
done, in particular whether it failed to arrange meetings  to discuss the portfolio.
Before discussing those two issues I think it is important to make clear that, where there is a dispute 
between the parties, my findings are made on a balance  of probabilities, what  is more likely, than not, 
based on the evidence  that has been provided. 
Was investing in the SIA fund a breach of the agreed mandate?
The Trustees  argue that as the fund used  derivatives  extensively,  so that it was leveraged, and was a 
hedge fund this means investing in the fund was not in accordance with the restriction that was part of 
the agreed mandate, or the desire  of Mr and Mrs B not to be invested in a hedge  fund.  
The terms  of business set out the risk of investing in funds and one of the risks that is explained is 
that:
A fund may be exposed  to market risks and risk associated with particular  trading activities  for 
example off-exchange  trading, short selling, leveraged trading, frequent portfolio turnover and 
speculative position  limits   which may result in losses for the fund or periods of fund 
underperformance. The risks associated  with a direct investment by an investor  in the underlying 
asset are also relevant  in determining the risk associated  with an investment in the fund in the 
underlying asset.
So, this identified a potential risk when investing in funds generally that short  selling and leveraged 
trading could  take place.
The Key Investor  Information  Document  (KIID) for the SIA fund set out the risk and reward profile of 
the fund as five on a scale  of one to seven.  It explained that the fund had that risk rating  for various 
reasons including  making extensive use of derivatives resulting in the fund being leveraged.
So, I think the information provided  in the documents the Trustees  would have been given at the time 
of investing made it clear that funds  invested  in could potentially use leverage.
The Investment Objectives and Restrictions  document completed for the Trust set out the objectives  
of the trust as being to preserve the wealth of the portfolio targeting a return of LIBOR + 3% 
consistent with a medium  level of risk.
And under the heading  Investment Restrictions and Constraints it states that:
Please note:  No transactions which  result in a leveraged  portfolio  will be entered into (i.e. borrowing  
and short selling)
ASC has said that the restriction  wasnt bespoke and applied to all Target Return  portfolios. Even if 
that is the case this would still mean that the restriction applied to the Trust portfolio. But I do think  the 
fact that ACS included this restriction with all Target Return portfolios - which invest in the SIA fund as 
part of ASCs  portfolio strategy - does  show that it wasnt intended that this restriction precluded  
investing in the SIA fund. 
And I think the KIID explanation  that the SIA fund made extensive use of derivatives resulting  in the 
fund being leveraged  is further  evidence  that it wasnt intended that this restriction applied to the SIA 
fund. And I dont think, given the information provided  within the documents, that the Trustees were 
misled by the restriction into thinking that the SIA fund wouldnt carry  out any transactions that 
involved leverage.
Ref: DRN26383357I also dont think the wording  of the restriction itself means  that ACS couldnt invest in the SIA fund 
anyway. The word leverage  refers to using  borrowed  money to invest. For the portfolio  itself to be 
leveraged I think ACS would need to have borrowed money to invest in investments within the 
portfolio. There is a clear  risk to the portfolio if ASC uses leverage to invest  because  this means  the 
portfolio, and the client, is at risk of losing more  than the capital originally  invested in the portfolio. 
That isnt a risk that arises  if the SIA fund chooses to use leverage,  as the risk is to the fund not the 
portfolio. I have seen no evidence that the portfolio itself was leveraged  - I dont think that because  
the SIA fund could itself choose to use leverage that this means the portfolio itself was leveraged.
In summary I think  Mr B and Mrs B were made aware  that the SIA fund could use leverage  and that 
the restriction  about leveraging didnt apply to the fund.
But that is not the end of the matter, as Mr B and Mrs B also made  it clear, separately from the 
Objectives and Restrictions document  in the Goal Questionnaire - that their preference was not to 
invest in hedge  funds.  
One of the questions in the questionnaire  is about any asset classes they dont want  to be invested in. 
Fixed interest is ticked to indicate they didnt  want to invest in that asset class,  and prefer  not is 
written next to hedge funds.  
ACS has said that the SIA fund isnt a hedge fund but has also said that it isnt a typical hedge fund. I 
asked it to clarify what it meant. It said that the characteristics of the SIA fund and those  of hedge 
funds are different.  It said the SIA fund could not and should not be considered a hedge  fund for the 
following reasons:
The SIA fund in an FCA authorised UCITS fund which  is structured  as a unit trust and is available for 
investment by retail investors.It utilises  investment techniques which may be intended to hedge,  
smooth or counterbalance investment exposures that an investor has elsewhere in its portfolio  
managed by ASC.
In our opinion a pure hedge fund is something separate and different. Whilst there is not necessarily 
an accepted definition these  investment vehicles will often  not satisfy the conditions  of being a UCITS 
scheme and they might only be available to professional  investors.
ASC pointed out that hedge funds often have reduced liquidity because they trade monthly  or 
quarterly whereas  the SIA fund traded  daily. And that there is often a performance fee for hedge  
funds which the SIA fund doesnt have, as it has no specific performance  target.
There is no definition  of hedge fund. But it is listed as one of the common types of Alternative 
Investment Fund  (AIF)  in the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual  (PERG) at PERG 16.2 (Question 
2.28).
PERG 16.2 Question  2.1 asks what is the basic definition of an AIF? and then sets out six 
requirements for an AIF and says that all of them must be satisfied.  The sixth requirement is that the 
AIF does  not include an undertaking that requires authorisation under  Article  5 of the UCITS Directive.
Given ASC has said that the SIA fund is a UCITS with authorisation from the FCA it appears that it is 
not an AIF. It is therefore arguable that as the FCA identifies  hedge funds as AIFs  that if the SIA fund 
isnt an AIF it is also not a hedge  fund.  If that is right,  then ASC werent  prevented from investing  in 
the fund because Mr and Mrs B indicated  they preferred  not to invest  in hedge funds.
Even if I am wrong  about that, and the SIA fund is a hedge  fund, Im not persuaded that ASC were in 
breach of the agreed mandate because they invested in the fund. I think  it is of note that fixed  interest 
investments are clearly identified  as something Mr B and Mrs B didnt want to invest  in whereas for 
hedge funds the questionnaire  states a preference not to be invested. 
Ref: DRN26383358I dont think the fact Mr B and Mrs B had a preference not to be invested in hedge  funds  was an 
absolute bar to such investment. If that is what was intended hedge funds could  have simply  been 
ticked as an investment they werent willing to invest in - as for fixed interest. 
Im not persuaded  a preference is the same as an absolute bar to investment. Im mindful that the 
information provided  about  the SIA fund at the time of advice was reasonably  clear as to how the fund 
operated, and if that was something Mr B and Mrs B didnt want, they didnt need to go ahead with 
ASC.
I have considered if there was any other issue with the portfolio. It was a medium risk portfolio in line 
with the risk questionnaire that was completed. There does not appear to be any issue about  the 
portfolio not being in accordance with Mr Bs risk appetite. 
I think  it is of note that Mrs H suggested  that the benchmark that the investigator shouldve  used when 
setting out the redress payable should  be one with more equity exposure to put it closer  to the SIA 
fund. This suggests that, aside from the issue about the investment in the SIA fund because it used 
leverage - which I have  already found  wasnt inappropriate - there isnt an issue about  the overall  risk 
of the fund.
I have also considered the proportion of the portfolio invested in the SIA fund, which  was around 35%. 
This was significant proportion of the overall portfolio. But Im not satisfied  this was too much.  The 
purpose of the fund was to counterbalance the portfolio so that when more traditional investments 
werent performing the fund would perform so that volatility  was reduced. ASC has said if less had 
been put in the fund it wouldve been unlikely it wouldve  reduced  volatility to achieve what Mr B and 
Mrs B wanted,  which  was capital  preservation.  I think this is a reasonable explanation  for the amount 
that was invested in the SIA fund. 
I acknowledge that the portfolio has not performed  as expected, and in particular that the SIA fund 
has not perhaps operated as had been anticipated. But, in the absence  of any evidence that ASC 
mismanaged the portfolio - and the performance of the portfolio  and the SIA fund alone  isnt evidence 
of this  I am unable  to say that ASC has done  anything  wrong in its management  of the portfolio.
Did ASC breach  the terms of business regarding  reviewing the portfolio?
Under the agreement between ASC and the Trust it states:
8(a) We shall arrange to meet with you at least once a year or at such  other frequency  as we may 
agree with you to discuss matters relating to the management of your portfolio.
In its FRL ASC said that it was not invited  to meet  with the Trustees after 2013. It also said that there 
was an adviser agreement in place and that it was for the Trustees  adviser  who confirmed he was 
responsible for the suitability  of the portfolio  - to notify it if a change was needed 
But the term I have set out above  shows  it was for ASC to arrange to meet  with the Trustees at least 
once a year unless some  other time period was agreed. ASC has pointed out that it didnt provide any 
advice to invest  in the portfolio, which  advice  was down to the advising  firm, Standard Life Client 
Management (SLCM). 
It has said that it had two different forms of agreement with advising firms. The first is here there are 
no terms of business with the advising firm, in which  case it is responsible for the client suitability 
assessment. This is the arrangement ASC says it had with SLCM  and that is why it carried  out the 
client suitability assessment  through its Risk and Goal questionnaires. The second arrangement  is 
where there are terms of business and the advising firm is responsible for the suitability of the 
portfolio. ASC has said the agreement with new firm the adviser moved to in July 2013 was for the 
adviser to provider  ongoing advice and ensure the portfolio was suitable.
Ref: DRN26383359The agreement with the new advising  firm was completed by the Trustees in July 2013. This gave the 
adviser authority to give financial advice  and provide  an ongoing service  in respect of the portfolio.
But whilst I acknowledge that ASC may have  provided a different service  depending  on the 
arrangement it had with the advising firm, I have seen nothing that shows that this changed the terms 
of business between it and the client. In short, I have seen nothing  that shows that its obligations  
under clause  8(a) of the terms of business  as set out above didnt apply depending  on the type of 
agreement with the advising firm.
I have seen no evidence that ASC contacted either Trustees or the adviser  after 2013,  to arrange a 
meeting to discuss the portfolio. On the face of the evidence this seems to be a breach  of the terms of 
business.
But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to hold ASC responsible for this failure  every year. 
There was no reason  the adviser or the Trustees couldnt ask for a meeting if that is what was 
wanted. If the adviser or the Trustees had concerns, or wanted a review, I can see no reason they 
didnt just do that. But I have  seen no evidence that either the adviser or the Trustees did so, despite 
Mrs H stating that the Trustees  raised  concerns over performance of the portfolio on at least  three 
occasions with the adviser.
Even if a meeting had taken  place after 2013, I am not satisfied that this would necessarily  have led to 
any change in the portfolio.  There is nothing to show that there was a change in risk appetite and Im 
not satisfied  that simply because the Trustees werent happy about the portfolio  performance that this 
means there would necessarily have  been  a change to the portfolio.  I dont think  there is any 
persuasive evidence that this is what wouldve happened if meetings had taken place after 2013. 
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2638335