K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Zenith  Insurance  plc held her at fault for a road traffic accident under 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs L was changing  from the right hand  land to the left hand lane when she collided with 
another driver  who was travelling in the lane she was changing into. Mrs L said the driver 
must have  been  speeding  as shed checked  before her manoeuvre and the road was clear.  
But Zenith held her liable for the accident.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Zenith 
had reasonably considered the evidence available  and decided that the greater onus was on 
Mrs L as she was changing lanes. He couldnt  see evidence  that the other driver was 
speeding at the time.  He thought Zenith  was entitled  to make its decision on liability 
according to the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs L replied that the other driver tried to undertake her using a layby and then clipped the 
front of her car. She said the dash cam footage showed the other driver wasnt  proceeding in 
the lane earlier and that he turned his wheel into the side of her car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zenith said Mrs L was responsible for the accident  as she changed lanes to avoid stationary 
traffic and hit the other  car. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Zenith is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs L to take over, defend, 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mrs L has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether  she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision.
I can see that the evidence that Zenith  had to consider was Mrs Ls version of events, the 
damage to the cars and the dash cam footage  provided by Mrs L. I cant  see that there were 
independent witnesses available. So I think Zenith  reasonably investigated the claim.
Ref: DRN22626992I can see that Zenith considered all the evidence available. Its file shows that it reviewed the 
dash cam footage several times. It considered Mrs Ls comments  about the layby  being used 
by the other driver to undertake her but it thought this wasnt shown by the footage. And it 
decided that the onus  was on Mrs L as the party changing lanes to take greater care and so 
it held her at fault.  
I think Zenith was entitled to decide  this by the policy  terms and conditions  after reasonably 
considering the evidence  available. So I cant say it did anything  wrong  or needs  to change 
its decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262699