K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with how shes been treated by Aviva Life & Pensions UK limited, in 
particular, shes unhappy with its decision to terminate her claim and would like it reinstated.  
Mrs R brings her complaint to us through a third party representative, but for simplicity, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  been  made  by Mrs R personally.  
background
Mrs R has a group income  protection policy  through  her employer. She brings  her complaint 
as a beneficiary under this policy. Mrs R has been  off work for a number of years suffering 
with severe back and hip pain. She had a spinal fusion  procedure in 2007  which  helped  
alleviate her back pain,  but then began to suffer with symptoms again  in 2013 and by July 
that year, she found it too painful to return to work. Her group insurance began making 
payments in January 2014. Owing to covert surveillance footage taken in September  and 
December 2017,  Aviva decided to stop making  the payments and removed her from cover.  
This forms  the basis of Mrs Rs complaint. 
Mrs R said Aviva did not adhere to industry regulation or guidance before it decided to 
instruct investigators to gather  the footage. She felt it more appropriate for Aviva to have 
discussed any concerns  it had with her at the time directly. Mrs R maintains that she is still 
heavily incapacitated and unable to return to work  in any capacity.
Aviva said it decided to place Mrs R under surveillance following  a review of her claim. It 
said that after completing a desktop  investigation  into her social media accounts, there  were  
inconsistencies with what she had told it about her situation. Aviva  said it sought  the expert 
opinion of the same doctor who had previously completed an independent  medical 
examination of Mrs R and who, at that time,  considered she was unable to work. The new 
report said, in light of the recent footage,  he believed Mrs R was able to return  to work.  And 
so Aviva maintained  its position to stop her claim as it believes she exaggerated her 
symptoms.  
Our investigator thought Avivas decision to place  Mrs R under surveillance  was a fair and 
reasonable one. He said Aviva was able to do this to make sure Mrs R was still meeting the 
terms of the policy. He also thought it fair for Aviva to rely on the new evidence  to stop 
paying her claim as this highlighted  inconsistencies with how she had previously described 
her condition and its symptoms.
Mrs R did not agree. She made a number of arguments  in summary she said;
Because the investigator has agreed with Aviva, this essentially means were  saying  
shes lying about her disabilities;
She feels Aviva has treated her unfairly because of her disability, in particular,  that 
Aviva are discriminating  against her because  she is disabled;
The decision to conduct covert  surveillance was unfair and a breach of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business  Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules and the Association  of British 
Insurers guidelines  (ABI);
Ref: DRN25836002Aviva  should have shared the results  of its desktop investigation with her sooner, 
allowing her the opportunity  to comment on its findings;
The footage  obtained was recorded  on good  days which  is why she was able to 
perform those tasks on those days.
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied Aviva has 
acted reasonably in its decision to terminate  the claim and void the policy.  
Mrs R has made a number of arguments,  all of which Ive considered, but I wont  be 
responding to each  and every one. I should  also highlight  that although we consider  any 
relevant law, its not something Im necessarily bound  by, as Im able to make  
recommendations on a fair and reasonable basis.                                                                                                                                                                                             
And its not for me to decide whether Mrs R is being  dishonest about her condition.  The crux 
of the issue here is whether Aviva  acted reasonably when it ceased her claim and removed  
her from cover. And so Ive considered what it knew about Mrs Rs position before it did so. 
Mrs R has already mentioned industry  standards (ICOBs) in some of her submissions and to 
be clear,  the most relevant part here is;
An insurer must not unreasonably reject a claim (including terminating or avoiding  a policy)
Aviva terminated Mrs Rs claim in light of new evidence. 
During earlier medical assessments, it was determined Mrs R was suffering with severe and 
on-going pain. There were a number of doctors  letters and opinions  to support this. Ive 
seen Mrs Rs extensive medical history, which clearly shows  she suffered considerably,  with 
a number of health issues, not only with her back, but with her hips and legs, over a 
extended period  of time. Its also clear  shed been  prescribed  a lot of medication over the 
years to help her manage these problems. 
In her initial claim, Mrs R explained she was also unable  to complete most everyday tasks  
unaided, this included getting herself  dressed in the morning,  walking for short  periods of 
time and standing unaided.  The doctors  whod investigated Mrs Rs symptoms had given a 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia  and arthritis. This suggested to Aviva  she was unable to return  to 
work due to her ill health. And so I can understand when Aviva  completed a desktop  review 
of her case,  and discovered photos of her on holiday, attending social events  and 
participating in regular charity  work,  I can see why it would have raised  questions  about her 
incapacity. 
Mrs R has made the argument that Aviva should have approached her with its initial  findings  
so that she could give a more detailed  explanation  behind some of these instances.  But I 
disagree. Aviva decided to instruct a surveillance  firm to gather  further  information  because it 
had concerns about the accuracy  of what it had been told. I think this was a reasonable 
decision to make and have found no evidence  to suggest this was discriminatory. Im not 
disputing there may have  been reasonable explanations Mrs R could have offered at the 
time, but that doesnt mean Aviva should have shared this information with her from the 
Ref: DRN25836003outset. Its entitled to take necessary steps to validate an on-going claim, and then allow  
Mrs R the opportunity to review and comment on the evidence  collected  - which  is precisely 
whats happened here. 
Theres no predetermined threshold of evidence that an insurer must satisfy before it can 
decide to instruct  a surveillance firm. It remains a tool within  an insurers toolkit  that can be 
used at any time, provided theres a reasonable explanation for doing so. For the purposes 
of this complaint  I consider there was enough information from that point to have caused 
Aviva sufficient concern.  So I find Avivas  decision to place Mrs R under covert  surveillance 
a reasonable one, borne from legitimate concern and not in any way discriminatory.   
Mrs R has made specific mention of the ABI guidelines in response to Avivas decision to 
instruct a surveillance  firm. But given  what Ive explained above, I believe Avivas  reasons 
for doing so were appropriate and proportionate. I think  this is further supported  by what the 
surveillance showed, which to be clear,  was enough  to persuade  the doctor whod 
completed the independent  medical  examination that, Mrs R was able to return to work in 
some capacity, over a phased return of ten weeks. Its because  of this that I think  Avivas 
decision to stop paying her claim was fair. 
Mrs R explained that given the nature of her condition, she experiences good and bad days, 
essentially saying that on some days shes able to do more  than others.  I can understand 
the argument shes attempted to make  here  but this was presented post-surveillance. Im 
also not persuaded Aviva should have  handled  things differently in light of that. I say that 
because Mrs R told Aviva, only a few weeks prior to the footage being filmed, she was in 
severe and constant  pain.  So much  so it impacted every aspect of her life and mobility  as 
she was unable to walk to the local shop which was about 100 meters  from her home. She 
also explained she was unable to lift anything, stand without experiencing excruciating  pain,  
and that she used a wheelchair  or mobility  scooter when visiting the supermarket.
In March and May 2017 Avivas medical team met with Mrs R. On both occasions, it was 
determined she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her insured 
occupation. This was based on the representations Mrs R made  during these visits. In the 
months that followed and up until December the same year (when  surveillance  had taken  
place) there  was no reported improvement of Mrs Rs condition. The medical  evidence  
suggested Mrs R was still very unwell.
But the surveillance footage obtained by Aviva  contradicted what Mrs R had previously said 
as it showed her completing the very tasks shed said she was unable to. This included 
visiting the supermarket  without the use of a wheelchair or scooter,  carrying  and placing 
items into a trolley unaided, lifting her child into the car, as well as loading various other 
items into her car, including  what appeared to be a table and chairs. 
The footage  was shared  with the same doctor  whod  assessed Mrs R previously  and was 
enough to persuade him she appeared well enough  to return  to work.  So  I think  the 
inconsistencies Aviva  identified were appropriately  challenged and supported  by evidence.  
Its enough to persuade  me that Avivas decision to stop paying her claim was fair. Aviva  
took this decision  after consideration  of all the evidence itd gathered.   And because it 
thought Mrs R had not been forthcoming  with her symptoms, it made the decision to remove  
her from cover all together. 
Mrs R has raised  questions  about  the footage  taken in September and has suggested this 
supports her argument that she experiences good and bad days.  To be clear, Ive 
Ref: DRN25836004considered this argument, but Im more  persuaded by the revised medical report  borne from 
the December  footage.  And thats  because it demonstrates Mrs R was more able to do many 
of the things she previously described  as impossible owing to severe and constant pain. 
Further, Aviva  is able to rely on this evidence in the way that it has here.     
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2583600