K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr B owns  two high powered luxury  sports cars of different makes, the cars could 
reasonably be described as supercars. I will refer to the cars as F and L. 
Mr B insured  both cars with Admiral.  The cars were  significantly damaged  in a malicious 
attack (the attack) - using a chemical  substance  - in June 2017.  Mr B claimed on his policies. 
Admiral investigated  Mr Bs claims. Mr B was unhappy with Admirals  progress. He brought 
his complaint about that to us.
We set up two different  complaints, one for each car and a third complaint about certain 
specific issues concerning  Admirals service. In this decision I will focus on Mr Bs claim for 
the damage to F. I have already issued separate decisions  regarding  Mr Bs other  
complaints. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaints. While she was doing  so Admiral 
accepted it should settle Mr Bs claims.  It initially said F was a total loss. But our involvement 
in the complaint didn't  end there.  Instead the complaint has evolved  to incorporate  many  
other points  including, amongst other  things:  Admirals service, whether or not F was a total 
loss, further damage  caused to F by Admiral, non-provision of a courtesy car and other  
aspects of Admirals service. One of my ombudsman colleagues looked into the complaint. 
But as he wasn't  in a position to issue a final decision it was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 February 2021.  For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.  
Mr Bs claim and complaint has been  ongoing  for over three and a half years. During that 
period there have  been a number of developments which have given rise to further actions, 
comments, concerns  and complaints. As a result, our file(s) run to thousands of pages. And 
while Ive considered everything  thats  before me, in this provisional  decision I don't intend to 
address each and every  event or issue  raised.  Instead I will focus on what  I see as being the 
key issues at the heart of Mr Bs complaint that still require  my attention.
Id like to start by repeating an apology - which I included in my decision for L - for the time 
its taken us to review this complaint. While our ability  to complete our review  has been 
significantly affected by the pandemic,  I can see that the additional time taken has been  
particularly frustrating for Mr B and Im sorry about  that.
After the attack  Admiral  instructed  a firm of engineers, who I'll refer to as B, to assess F. B 
valued it at £74,250 and said the costs of repairs to it were around  £27,880.  Admiral  
Ref: DRN21347832instructed a second engineering firm, which I'll refer to as G, to carry out a further,  in depth, 
report into the condition  of the car,
Gs engineer said F was in a poor condition with some previous issues to its bodywork. He 
said a key problem  with the car was that its gearbox wasn't  fully operating  causing  a traction 
control light to display. He estimated the cost of repairing  the damage to F as being over 
£33,000 (including VAT). He said the cars  pre-incident market  value was £25,800 and as 
such it wasn't economical to repair. So he said it was a total loss. 
Mr B disagreed with Gs engineers conclusions. Mr B said there was nothing  wrong  with Fs 
gearbox or traction control and instructed  another  engineering firm, who Ill call E, to assess 
his car. Es engineer  agreed that the cars gearbox  and traction control were working 
appropriately. Gs engineer assessed  the car again in Mr Bs presence.  And at that point it 
became apparent to Mr B that Gs engineer wasn't familiar with the sort of gearbox F was 
equipped with, which is why hed previously  concluded it wasn't working  properly. Gs 
engineer agreed  the gearbox was working but suggested Mr B had done further work to it. 
But he said that, as the gearbox  was now working, he valued the car at £55,800.
I accept Mr Bs evidence that he hadn't had the gearbox repaired before Gs second 
inspection. And it seems likely that the issue with the gearbox was either because Gs 
engineer was unfamiliar with it or might have  been caused by Admirals agents jump  starting  
the car, which I understand can be a known  cause of gearbox faults in such  cars. But, in any 
event, as the gearbox was working  that meant the car wasnt  uneconomical to repair  and so 
wasn't a total loss. And so, at that point,  Admiral should have decided how it wished to settle 
the claim.
Mr Bs policy  says that in the event his car is damaged and in need of repair Admiral may 
either arrange repairs or offer a CIL settlement to cover the cost of repair.  So it should  have  
chosen one of those options  once it became clear that the gearbox  wasn't  in need of repair.  
But it didn't  do that. And as a result, Mr Bs car has remained unrepaired ever since.  I don't 
think that was fair.
In order to put things  right I think Admiral should  remove Fs total loss marker from any 
internal and external databases. It should make clear when taking action  to remove  the 
marker from external databases, that the marker  was initially placed on F in error, so it 
shouldnt show on the cars history. It should also either:
Arrange for the appropriate repairs to be done  to Mr Bs car for the damage caused 
in the attack by its approved repairers.  If it does so, in line with Mr Bs policy  terms 
Mr B will be entitled  to a courtesy car for the duration of those repairs.  
Make  a CIL settlement equivalent to the cost of repairs at its approved  repairers. I'm 
aware that some significant time has elapsed since the attack. And its likely that in 
that period the costs for parts and labour have increased. So if Mr B and Admiral do 
agree on a CIL settlement, Admiral  should base that sum on the costs to repair  the 
car at the time of the settlement, rather than when the car was initially  assessed. 
That costing should include the price of recovery from and redelivery of the car to 
Mr B.
I should be clear that under the terms of the policy  its for Admiral  to decide how it wishes to 
settle the claim. But owing  to the long-running nature of this dispute and the number of 
Mr Bs comments and concerns as matters have progressed, I think  it would be fair for 
Admiral to offer a CIL as an alternative to using its approved repairer.
Ref: DRN21347833Mr B has said that, if a CIL is agreed,  Admiral should add a reserve sum to its settlement to 
cover any costs for additional damage  discovered  during the repair process. However,  I 
don't think  thats  fair, as disputes could arise about  whether or not the damage  was related 
to the attack or not, and instead the engineers costing the work should factor in all the likely 
damage when  arriving  at that costing. And, unless  Mr B is happy to accept a costing 
provided by Admirals approved repairers,  those  costs  should be agreed  by an independent 
engineer (other  than G).  
As indicated  above,  Mr B has previously engaged the services of E, and E is on Admirals  
panel of engineering firms. So, it would seem  that both Admiral and Mr B trust Es opinion.  
And in those circumstances it would seem reasonable - if E is available  and accepts the 
work required to bring Mr Bs claim to a conclusion,  as set out in my decision - for Admiral to 
instruct it to do the necessary  work.  However, if E isn't available than Admiral  and Mr B 
should agree  on the engineering firm to do the required assessments. And both parties  
should agree  to abide by the independent engineers  conclusion.  Admiral should cover  the 
independent engineers fees.
Further, Mr B incurred  his own costs from E in order to successfully challenge Admirals 
conclusions that F was a total loss. So I think it's fair that Admiral reimburses Mr B for the 
costs of that engineers report. It should add simple interest to that settlement at a rate of 8%  
from the date Mr B paid it to the date it reimburses him.
additional damage to F
Mr Bs complained that while  Fs been in the care of Admirals agents its suffered 
considerable additional damage unrelated to the attack or its condition before then. And, 
understandably, he thinks Admiral should put those issues right or pay him a sum equivalent 
to the costs of the further repairs required. Im aware  that there are numerous  points that 
Mr F has made  about additional  damage to his car, but I don't intend to address each and 
every point that's been made and instead  will focus on those which appear to remain  
contested. 
In particular Mr Fs said his car suffered from damage caused by water getting into it while  it 
was with Admirals agents.  I think its noteworthy that Mr B stored F in a garage at his home 
whereas Admirals agents stored  it outside  and exposed to the elements. 
I've seen video  evidence  that when Admiral  returned F to Mr B, on a transporter, both 
passenger and driver windows were partially  open, and that would have allowed water  into 
the car. Mr Bs explained that, when the door handles are lifted the windows  automatically  
drop a small  amount in order to allow the doors  to open and close freely. And, when the 
doors are closed again, the windows will automatically rise to make  a watertight seal.  But, in 
order for that to happen, the battery must have enough charge to raise  the windows. If the 
doors are opened when  the battery is flat, then the windows will still drop but won't then raise 
again to make a watertight seal when the doors  are closed.
Its notable that on several occasions  Admirals agents have referred to Fs battery being flat. 
So, if Admirals agents have opened the car doors,  while the battery  was flat, then the 
windows would have  dropped slightly but not gone  back up again. And it seems likely the 
agents have stored F with the windows  partially  opened, for at least  some  of the time it was 
with them,  and thats allowed water into the car. Mr Bs also given us a video of F taken 
Ref: DRN21347834shortly after Admiral returned it to him showing that the carpets  and car interior were wet. 
So, this is evidence of water getting  into F while it was in Admirals care.
In his provisional decision my colleague  commented that water could have entered  the car 
through a small  tear in the roof or because it didn't fit correctly at one corner.  But the tear is 
only on the roof surface, it doesn't penetrate all the way through,  so that wouldn't have 
allowed water  into the car. And Mr B's provided  video  evidence of the car from the inside 
(with the windows fully closed) and a hose pipe running water  over the roof, which doesnt 
show any water getting into the car. So Im satisfied that any issues  with the roof didn't 
cause the water to get into the car. And, in those circumstances I think  it's more likely  than 
not that water got into the car through open  windows.  But even if the water had got in 
through the roof, had the car been stored inside then that wouldnt have happened. It follows 
that I think Admiral should be responsible for any damage water might  have  caused  to the 
cars interior and that should include any mould or damage to the carpet and underlay.
I've seen that engineers  from both B and G have commented on water  damage to the car. B 
said that the original  engineer who had looked at F had now left, so a second engineer 
looked at the car. He said he couldn't find any damage caused by water  getting in. G said 
that the only damage was mould  or mildew staining to the interior  of the cars roof. 
Mr B noted  that B had asked for the car to be cleaned before Bs engineer inspected F a 
second time. And Mr B thinks that cleaning the car might have removed evidence of water  
damage. While  I think thats unlikely I'm not convinced that B considered  Mr Bs specific 
concerns about  the cars interior. Thats because Bs engineers comments are essentially 
limited to the bodywork. And I note he didn't appear to comment  on the mould to the roof, as 
Gs engineer did.  
Mr Bs continued to complain of many other areas  of damage he holds Admiral responsible 
for causing. And Ive referred to the still contested areas below. Our investigator had 
previously recommended that Admiral cover the costs of repair to some  sagging in the 
dashboard leather. That was because the sagging is quite  noticeable and G didn't comment  
on it initially, which it seems likely he would have done if it had been  there  at the outset.  So I 
think its a reasonable  conclusion  that this damage  happened while  F was in Admirals care 
and it should pay for the costs of repair to it.
But one of the issues for me now, is that its very difficult to say what  the condition  of the 
cars interior was before  it was damaged in the attack. With the exception of one seat, the 
condition of the interior wasn't something that either  B or Gs engineers  commented  on at 
the time they did their initial inspections. So I'm not convinced they would have noticed 
individual oil/dirt  spots on the carpet or small stains on the leather stitching. I accept that 
Mr B is adamant that those marks werent  there  before.  But it seems to me that, having  had 
the car returned  to him when it was clearly damp, he's then examined it thoroughly,  and its 
certainly possible that hes identified areas of concern now that, perhaps,  he simply hadn't 
noticed before.  For example, what hes described  as shrinkage to the leather on the side of 
the dash might not have been obvious or in plain sight before the attack. But, possibly, this is 
instead something hes noticed  while looking at any additional  damage the car might have 
suffered while  it was in Admirals care.  Also,  while the car doesn't  appear to have required 
any significant work on it previously, it will occasionally have had work done in order to get 
through MOTs etc and, if that's the case,  its certainly possible that oil or dirt has got into it 
when that work was being undertaken or simply when the car was in use.
Ref: DRN21347835The car was 14 years  old at the time of the attack,  and a car of that age is bound to have 
experienced some wear  and tear. For example, Gs engineer commented on his first 
inspection that the drivers seat was heavily worn. So I think  its unlikely that every other 
blemish the cars interior now shows happened  while in Admirals  care.  That said Admiral  
paid for the car to be valeted but the valetor  said that hes been unable  to rectify some  of the 
issues the car has. But I cant fairly  say, with the information before me, that each and every 
issue Mr Bs pointed to was caused  by something  Admiral did or didn't do. But, in an attempt 
to find a resolution to this complaint, I will list the issues Mr B has continued  to refer to and 
set out how I think each issue should be addressed. 
roof operation
Mr B said that Fs roof was working  normally before Admiral took it away but would no longer 
open or close automatically without some intervention after it was returned. I accept Mr Bs 
evidence that the roof had previously  worked. But its not clear  to me why anything  Admiral 
did - or didn't do - to F should  stop the roof mechanism from working. Gs engineer said that 
when he inspected the car initially  he had no reason  to test the roof, so couldn't  comment on 
whether or not it worked previously. And I've noted  that the storage yard - where F was 
stored for some time - said that its policy when receiving convertible cars was to take 
pictures of the car with both the top up and down. But it only had pictures of F with the roof 
up, and it said that meant the roof mechanism wasn't  working when it first received the car, 
which was only a matter  of months after the attack. 
I'm aware Mr B had the roof serviced  around  two-years before the attack. So he would have 
expected it still to work. And Mr Bs said the recovery company  who had collected F and 
delivered it to the repairers didn't remember the roof not working  when it collected  the car. 
But I don't  recall seeing anything to say the recovery company tested the roof when it initially  
collected F. So, I don't  find the recovery companys comments that it couldn't  recall  the roof 
not working when  it collected the car persuasive that it was working at the time it collected it. 
And given  the evidence  from the storage yard is its most likely that the roof wasn't working 
efficiently when F was delivered to it, only months after the attack, I don't think  its likely  that 
the mechanism  would  have stopped working because of anything Admiral did or didn't do. 
So I don't think  it needs  to be responsible for any repair to the roof mechanism.  
front wheel damage
Mr Bs provided photos of Fs passenger side front wheel which shows  some damage  to the 
alloy rim. He said the damage wasn't  there  before. But I note that, in its second report, G 
included a photo of the passenger wheel taken at the first inspection  in July 2017, which  
shows damage to the wheel. And while the photo Mr B has provided  is far clearer, given that 
there is some evidence of the wheel having  suffered  damage previously, I don't think  it 
would be fair to conclude that the damage is new. So I don't think it would be reasonable to 
instruct Admiral to cover the costs  of refurbishing the alloy as Mr B has suggested. 
water damage
As I've commented above,  I've seen  persuasive evidence that water got into F's interior 
while it was in Admiral's care. So I think Admiral should be responsible  for the costs of 
putting right the extent  of any repairs required because of water  damage. So, in order to find 
Ref: DRN21347836out what, if any, remedial action is required I think it's fair for Admiral to pay for an 
independent engineer to inspect F and detail the extent of any repairs  required because  of 
the water  ingress  to F while it was in Admirals care. That assessment should include a 
finding on whether  carpets, underlay and electrics have been damaged by any water 
ingress.
sun visors 
Mr Bs said that the sun visors have suffered from the same  sagging that the dashboard has. 
Mr B believes that the problem has arisen  either when the car was damp or when Admirals 
agents cleaned  the car, the implication  being  that the substances used  have caused  similar  
damage to Fs dash  and sun visors.  I think this is a point that needs assessment by an 
independent engineer. If the independent  engineer  feels that the sun visors have suffered 
the same  damage  that the dashboard  has, then I think its reasonable that Admiral takes 
responsibility for repairing or replacing those. But, if the independent engineer  feels  that this 
is simply wear  and tear then Admiral need not factor in any repair to the sun visors when 
settling the claim. 
other marks and damage to the cars interior 
Admiral has previously paid for the car to be valeted. It seems that the valetor  was able to 
successfully clean the carpet. But he wasn't able to remove  all the stains  from the cars 
interior. He said that there  are still oil marks on the seats, dash and door  trims.  Ive 
addressed some of those  points further below.  And I note that when Gs engineer  inspected  
the car for a second time he said there was a mark on the dash below  the steering column 
and the drivers door card. So it seems likely that these two marks occurred while  the car 
was in Admirals care and the valetor had been unable to remove  them. So I think that 
Advantage needs to factor in the costs of repairing or replacing these items  when  it settles 
Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B and the valetor also referred to marks on the passenger side door. From the pictures 
I've seen these  seem  less obvious  than the mark to the drivers door. I note that none  of the 
engineers that have  looked at the car have  commented on them. And, as I've said above, I 
think the car would have  had some wear and tear before the car was taken  away. And I don't 
think there's enough  evidence to conclude that any marks to the passenger  door happened 
while the car was in Admirals care. So I don't think it would be fair to instruct  Admiral to 
cover the costs of repairing these  marks.
Mr B has provided pictures  of a mark to the lower dash trim, which  he believed Admiral  
caused. But from the pictures I've seen  I don't  think  this mark is particularly obvious. So I'm 
not persuaded that it was more likely  than not caused by one of Admirals agents. So I don't 
think it would  be fair for Admiral to cover any costs  involved in repairing that.
door handles  
Mr Bs said that since Admiral returned the car the internal door handles have melted. And 
that the steering cowling has suffered similar damage.  Hes provided  photos and video in 
support of his comments. I note that the valetor  who cleaned  the car suggested that a 
nasty chemical had been applied to it. The implication being  that when one of Admirals 
agents cleaned  the car they used  a chemical  cleaner  that wasn't appropriate for the handles 
and steering cowling. 
Ref: DRN21347837Its not in dispute  that the car was cleaned. And Admirals agent has confirmed it used a mild 
acid based chemical in that process.  I understand that would be the appropriate substance 
to use to clean  the internal leather. But I don't know if using the same chemical on the door 
handles and other components would produce  the damage Mr B has noticed or if something  
else entirely has caused that. To address this I think Admiral should ask the independent  
engineer for a balance of probabilities finding on whether  or not these components show 
damage, beyond  the wear and tear that could be expected for a car of this age and mileage 
or if the damage  is consistent with the application  of an inappropriate cleaning  substance.  
And if so, as its likely  that damage  happened while the car was in Admirals care, I think it 
should be responsible for putting it right. In those circumstances it should factor  any 
necessary repairs in when it settles  the claim. But, if the independent  engineer feels  that this 
damage is simply wear and tear Admiral need  not take any further  action on these issues.
Similarly, Mr B said the passenger door handle is stuck. But unless that happened  because 
an incorrect chemical was used, I can't say why this would be Admirals  responsibility. 
Further Mr B said that the passenger door is no longer closing. I don't think  Admiral has 
done any work on the passenger door. And in the video of F being  delivered back  to Mr B he 
opens and closes  the passenger door freely.  So, I don't think  it's fair to attribute any issue 
with the passenger door no longer closing to the actions of Admiral.   
seats
Mr B and the valetor have both commented on marks to the seats. But it's clear  from the 
photos of the car when G first inspected it that the drivers seat was fairly  heavily  marked  to 
begin with. So I don't think it would  be fair for Admiral to cover  the costs  of repair or 
replacement of the drivers seat.  
I think its likely that the passenger seat would have suffered some  wear and tear previously,  
although it clearly  was in a better  condition than the drivers seat. But that doesn't 
automatically mean that Admiral hasn't made  the condition of the seat considerably  worse.  
But, from the evidence  I have, I can't now fairly determine exactly what, if any, further 
damage has been caused to that seat. In order to address  this I think the independent 
engineer should examine the passenger  seat to establish if any marks to it are beyond what  
could be expected for a car of that age and mileage. And if the conclusion  is that the marks 
to it are excessive, given that the car would have had some wear in the first place, I think 
Admiral should be responsible for covering half of the costs of cleaning,  repairing or 
replacing it as necessary.  
Mr B has added that the head rests for both seats  are similarly now smeared with oil. But, 
again, its difficult for me to determine the condition of the head rests before  the car was in 
Admirals care. So as with the seats,  I cant now fairly say, what, if any additional damage  
has been done to the head rests while in Admirals care.  But I can't rule out the possibility 
that some  damage has been done.  So, if the independent engineer agrees that the head  
rests have  been  smeared with oil, then I think it would be fair for Admiral to be responsible 
for covering half of the costs of cleaning, repairing or replacing those as required. However, 
if the independent engineer believes that any marks or damage  to the headrest  are 
consistent with normal wear and tear then Admiral  need not factor this in when settling 
Mr Bs claim. 
centre rear dash section  between  the seats
Ref: DRN21347838Mr Bs given  us some  photos  which show that the leather on this section of the car has some 
marks to it. But I can't see why any of Admirals agents would have needed to access that 
part of the car. So I think  it's unlikely that any marks to that part of the car where caused by 
Admiral. And I note that area of the car would seem to be out of the plain  line of sight. So it's 
possible the marks have  existed for some time but Mr B hasn't noticed them. And in those 
circumstances I don't think Admiral needs to take any further  action in this regard. 
seatbelts
Mr B said that the water damage  had caused  mould to grow on the seatbelts. And the 
valetor said he was unable to remove this mould.  Mr B provided  us with photos  and a video 
which, he says, shows the mould.  But it wasn't  obvious from the quality of the video  that the 
seatbelts were still affected by mould. But if they are than I think  thats likely to have 
happened when  the car became damp  while in Admirals care. So in order to address this I 
think it's fair for an independent  engineer to inspect the seatbelts. And if the engineers  
conclusion is that the seatbelts are mouldy and need to be repaired or replaced,  and given  
that these aren't generally high wear items, then Admiral should  factor  the full costs  of that 
when settling the claim.
underneath the front bumper
When Gs engineer first inspected F he commented on some  damage, most likely  caused by 
potholes, to the underneath of the front bumper. But Mr B says that there is now further 
damage, which was most likely caused when Admirals agents used a forklift truck to lift F 
onto a wagon to transport  it. Gs engineer  has noted during his second inspection that the 
damage to the underside of the bumper had become worse since  his first inspection. It 
appears that the bumper might have required repair as a result of the attack  and if that's the 
case then Admiral should simply cover the costs as part of the claim.  But, even if that's not 
the case, given that Admiral has clearly made some pre-existing damage  worse I think  it 
should be responsible for the cost of repairs. 
rear chassis/sub  frame
Mr Bs said that, with the help of some travel ramps, he's seen that when the car was lifted 
by a forklift  it has caused other damage  to the underside of the car. He said the car now has 
dents and cracks along with damage to the plastic underbody  cover. And hes provided 
photographs to support  that. I don't have the expertise to say whether or not the damage 
Mr B refers  to was caused by using a forklift to raise  the car. So, in order to address this, I 
think this is something that an independent engineer should make a finding on. And if the 
engineer concludes that the forklift has caused  additional damage then this is something 
Admiral needs to take responsibility for and it would need to factor  the repairs required in 
when settling Mr Bs claim.  
paint damage to rear panel
Mr Bs given  us a video  which clearly  shows damage to Fs top rear panel.  In Gs second 
inspection its engineer agreed the paint was scuffed but he didn't know  if the damage was 
there during his first inspection. He added that there were signs  of a previous poor repair  to 
the area which, if it had been completed  properly  wouldn't  have scuffed.
In contrast  Mr B said hes not aware  of any previous  repair to that part of the car. And hes 
offered an explanation for how he believed the damage happened. He said Admirals agents 
Ref: DRN21347839had previously told him that they couldn't get F to start because  a sensor was showing than 
issue with the boot lid. So they cleaned the sensor which allowed the boot to close. But Mr B 
believes that in taking that action,  which would require removing the boot lid sensor  from the 
boot latch - Admirals agents has altered the position  of the latch  and thats caused the boot 
lid to catch the car while closing, causing the damage. Mr Bs shown in his video  how that 
most likely happened.  And I find his evidence persuasive. I note G's engineer has suggested 
that this wouldn't have happened if it wasn't  for a poor earlier  repair.  But, while I can't say 
whether or not thats the case, Im persuaded that Admiral did cause  damage  to an area that 
was previously undamaged. So, in those circumstances,  it should  be responsible for having 
the area repaired. 
boot sensors
Mr Bs added that Admirals agents  damaged the boot sensors  when cleaning  them.  Theres  
evidence on file that Admirals agents  did clean the boot sensors  and if they damaged those  
while doing  so I think it's fair for Admiral to cover the costs of repair. To address this point I 
think its fair that an independent  engineer examines  the boots sensors. And if the 
conclusion is that the sensors  are damaged then Admiral should factor in the cost of 
repairing them when settling the claim.  
potential damage  caused to Fs electrics by jump  starting
There is evidence on file that, more than once,  as Fs battery was flat it was jump started in 
order to get it running. Mr Bs provided us with copies  of various online articles which show  
that jump starting  a car like F can cause  damage to it. And Es engineer noted in his report  
that jump starting  the car had probably caused an issue with the gearbox/traction control 
initially. I dont currently have any evidence that F has suffered any lasting damage as a 
result of it being jump  started. But given that jump  starting F could, potentially,  have caused  
damage to it I can understand Mr Bs concern. So, in order to fairly address this issue,  I think  
an independent engineer  should make a finding on whether any such damage has occurred 
because the car has been jump started. And if the engineer  concludes  it has then Admiral  
should factor  in the costs  of repair when settling the claim.   
tyres
Mr B said that as the car hasn't been  used for such  a long period the tyres  might be 
damaged. I think this is a further point that the independent engineer  needs to make a 
finding on. If the conclusion is the tyres are safe then Admiral doesn't need to address  this 
point. But, if the engineer  concludes they are no longer safe, because of the delays in sorting 
out the repairs, then Admiral would need  to factor  the costs for replacement tyres when 
settling the claim. 
gap in service history 
Mr B told us that prior to making  this claim, while occasionally his car was off the road it 
didn't have a MOT,  but it had a full service history. And because  of the issues  with this claim 
it no longer has that full service history. He said that would  affect  the cars value should he 
wish to sell it. A full service history will generally help to maintain a higher value for a car. So 
it's possible that, if Mr B chooses to sell F then its value could be less because of the gap in 
its service history. But how much that loss would be would only be known at the date of sale. 
So Mr B would only suffer a loss if he actually sells the car. And unless Mr B sells the car 
immediately he won't have suffered a loss. And the actual amount that the service history 
Ref: DRN213478310would affect the sale price  will change over time.  So I can't fairly  say how much  this has 
affected Mr B. But I will consider it when I think about compensation for Mr Bs distress and 
inconvenience because  of Admirals handling of the claim.
courtesy car 
Mr Bs policy  says Admiral will provide him with a courtesy car while  his car is being repaired 
by one of its approved repairers. But, as G found that F was a total loss, F wasn't ever being  
repaired by one of Admirals approved repairers.  So Admiral didn't ever offer Mr B a courtesy 
car even  though he asked for one. As I've said above, Gs engineers  conclusion  that F was 
a total loss was wrong. So, Admiral should  have given  Mr B the option of asking one of its 
approved repairers  to fix it. And, in those circumstances Mr Bs policy would have entitled 
him to a courtesy car. 
Mr B said that hes significantly out of pocket because he didn't have  access  to a courtesy  
car. At the time of the attack F was declared  off road and wasn't taxed. And Mr B said that at 
that time he did have  the use of another car. But he said hed always  planned to replace the 
other car and use F as his day-to-day car. And, because he didn't have a courtesy car he 
initially used  his work van for transport, until he found out that he wasn't insured on that for 
social use. And to fill the gap he bought another car for daily use. He said he wouldn't  have 
had to do that if hed had a courtesy  car or if Admiral had fixed  F. And Mr B thinks he saved 
Admiral a considerable amount of money because it didn't provide him with a courtesy car. 
But I think hes mistaken.
To support his argument  Mr Bs referred  to an unrelated claim involving his partner. In that 
case a claims  management company (CMC) provided his partner with a hire car until her 
own car was repaired. And the CMC  passed on the £200 daily costs of that hire car to the 
other drivers  insurer,  which also happened  to be Admiral. So Mr B thinks that if hed 
instructed a CMC himself then it would have cost Admiral similar sums to provide him with a 
hire car. But thats not the case. 
It might help if I explain that, where  a drivers clearly not at fault for an accident, then usually 
the non fault driver may try to claim any extra expenses because of the accident,  including 
hire car costs, from the other  drivers insurer. And in such cases CMCs may provide a hire 
car on whats known as a credit hire basis. That is, the CMC will pay for the hire car and then 
claim back the costs from the at fault drivers insurer.  And it seems  thats  what happened 
with Mr Bs partners claim.  In other  words  because the accident wasn't her fault she could 
claim for the costs of a hire vehicle  from Admiral because it insured the other  driver  who 
caused the accident. 
But, generally, CMCs will only offer cars on a credit hire basis  when they are certain  they will 
recover their costs  from the at fault drivers  insurer. But in Mr Bs case  the at fault party 
was the person or persons unknown who maliciously attacked his car. And that person 
wasnt ever caught. That means a CMC wouldn't have had anyone to claim its costs back  
from. So if Mr B had approached a CMC to manage his claim for him I think  its likely the 
CMC would have told him that, as it didn't have anyone it could reclaim its expenses from, it 
wouldn't take on his case. So it wouldn't have  provided him with a car on a credit hire basis.   
Further, courtesy cars and hire cars aren't  necessarily  the same  thing. Courtesy  cars are 
usually owned  by the approved repairers  themselves, rather than by a hire car company. 
Such vehicles are typically small hatchback type cars intended to keep a driver  mobile  when 
their cars are in for repair. Theyre not intended as a like-for-like or similar replacement for 
Ref: DRN213478311the car being  repaired. And the repairer  provides the courtesy car under the terms of its 
contract with Admiral. So the repairer  won't bill Admiral separately for the cost of the 
courtesy car. That means there's usually no direct cost to Admiral  for the provision of a 
courtesy car. It follows  that I don't think Mr Bs saved Admiral  any money because he didn't 
have a courtesy car, as the repairer wouldn't have billed Admiral  for it if he had been  
provided with one.
Mr Bs said that because he didn't have the use of a courtesy car hes incurred extra costs. 
He said that while he bought a new car hes not expecting Admiral to pay for it. But has 
noted that he has incurred costs he wouldn't have  otherwise had to incur  if hed had a 
courtesy car. And hes said his new car is depreciating.  I think  its likely that Mr B did incur  
additional costs  because he didn't have access to a courtesy car. And, as I've said above,  if 
Admiral hadn't mistakenly said his car was a total loss, then Mr B would have had the option 
of a courtesy  car until his car was fixed. But as neither of those things happened he had to 
find alternative means to travel and thats brought  with it extra  costs. I accept that's the case. 
But I don't  think  Admiral needs  to compensate Mr B for the costs  of any depreciation to his 
new car. As, had Mr B used F on a daily basis that also would have depreciated as mileage  
was added to it. 
But as I've said above I do accept  that Mr B was put to extra  trouble and immense  frustration 
because Admiral didn't  provide the courtesy  car he would have been entitled to. And this is 
something Ive factored  in when Ive provisionally  awarded compensation below. 
service, delays and compensation 
Ive previously issued  a decision concerning Mr Bs case involving  his claim for L. And as 
Admiral, generally, dealt with both claims together, my findings about Mr Bs complaints 
about Admirals service in this case largely mirror my findings  in the case for L.
Mr B has been unhappy with Admirals service from early in the history of this claim. And, 
amongst other things  he's complained about delays, particularly in responding to his 
requests for information or answering his queries, to say nothing  of actually settling his 
claim.
Mr B claimed for the damage  to his cars in June 2017. Admiral went  to some  lengths to look 
into the claim including instructing  external  investigators.  And given the high value of the two 
cars involved I don't find that unusual or unreasonable.  Thats  because, given a successful 
claim would most likely result in a very high settlement,  I think it was reasonable for Admiral  
to want to be satisfied  that the claim was genuine before offering to settle  it. And that rigour  
meant the claim took longer  than would usually be the case before Admiral was happy  that it 
should settle it. 
I'm aware that some three and a half years later Mr Bs claim still isn't settled, F still hasn't 
been fixed and he hasn't had the use or enjoyment of it in the meantime. Not all of those 
delays are because  of things Admiral  did or didn't do. But I do think  Admiral  could have  
made Mr Bs claim journey smoother 
I've seen that on numerous occasions Admiral was slow to reply  to Mr Bs requests for 
information or didn't reply at all. For example, he asked for copies of digital  images taken by 
the recovery drivers who collected his cars.  But Admiral didn't reply to that request promptly  
and it seems the recovery company later told Admiral it didn't have any images. Admiral 
passed that message - that no photos  were  available - on to Mr B. But Mr B had the 
Ref: DRN213478312recovery agents report which clearly  shows that photos of the car had been taken. And hed 
spoken with the recovery driver involved.  So he knew that, at least at some point, such 
images had existed but Admiral told him they didn't. 
The absence of the images taken  by the recovery company  is particularly significant  in this 
case. Thats because, as I've said above,  its extremely difficult to know  what  condition F 
was in when the recovery company collected  it and whether those would have showed that 
additional damage had been caused  to it while in Admirals care. And thats made it all the 
more difficult for Mr B to prove thats  the case. Further Mr B asked for these  photos  more 
than once, but I don't think Admiral did enough  to try to obtain  them,  at an early stage from 
the recovery company.  And had it done so theres a possibility  they might  have  provided  the 
photos while they were  still available.   
Also, because Admiral  relied on Gs report,  Mr B had to go to great efforts  in an attempt to 
show Gs conclusions weren't fair, including instructing an independent engineer  to examine 
his car.  
Further, I've noted  there were other times  when  Admiral  gave  Mr B incorrect answers  to his 
questions. And Im aware  thats been a significant  source of distress and inconvenience for 
him. For example, Mr B asked Admiral if it had any direct contact with G. Admiral  told Mr B it 
hadn't and that B had instructed  G. But Mr B later learned that wasn't the case. And, in fact, 
Admirals staff had been there in person when G first inspected Mr Bs cars. And Mr B is 
concerned that Admiral  influenced Gs findings  as a result. I think thats  unlikely, as Gs 
engineer signed a court compliant statement to say that his findings were based  on his 
professional opinion. But I can certainly understand why Mr B believed Admiral  was being 
underhand, even if that wasnt its intention.
Ive found a number of occasions where Admirals service has fallen below a standard  Mr B 
could have expected. Hes experienced immense frustration over a long period, had to take 
time off work and hes clearly had to make great  efforts  to try to prove his claim. For 
example, by instructing engineers and providing  videos and other evidence to try to prove  
his points. And I've thought about  all of those things  when  deciding on a compensation 
award below. 
Further, Mr B said he had planned to make F his daily car. And hes told us that a car like F 
was his dream car since he was a boy. But because  Admiral incorrectly decided  it was a 
total loss it still hasn't  been repaired.  So, apart from the practicalities of not having the use of 
the car, and not having a courtesy car hes also suffered a significant loss of enjoyment of it 
for a period  in excess of three years. And, I've thought about Mr Bs loss of enjoyment when 
considering compensation. Also, as I've said above, I've factored in the concern caused 
because of the gap in the service history  potentially affecting Fs resale  value at some point 
in the future. 
As I said in my decision  for L I'm aware Mr B thinks Admiral should compensate him, on an 
hourly rate basis, for the time he's invested in dealing  with his claim,  which,  in respect of 
both cars,  he estimates to be hundreds of hours.  But when considering if compensation is 
fair and if so how much to award  we look to recognise the distress and inconvenience an 
individual had suffered and make  an award to go some way to addressing  that. But we don't 
calculate such awards using tariffs for particular wrongs. Nor do we use an hourly rate for a 
consumers time. So I don't intend to make  my award on that basis.  
Ref: DRN213478313Having reviewed all the evidence I agree that Admiral put Mr B to unnecessary trouble and 
upset. Admirals handling of the claim has clearly had a marked effect  on him, causing him a 
significant amount  of stress, which could have  been  avoided if Admiral had handled matters 
differently. Admiral has recognised its caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience and 
has already paid him £1,000 compensation (for both claims) in respect  of that. In other  
words, its paid Mr B £500 compensation arising from his claim for F. But I don't think that 
goes far enough.  And, to address that I think Admiral  should pay Mr B an additional  £1,500 
compensation for this particular complaint. That brings the total compensation for Admirals  
handling of this claim to £2,000.
developments
Mr B broadly  accepted my provisional  decision. Amongst other  things he asked if I could add 
some sort of costs to Admiral if it didn't act on my directions  promptly. He said F would 
need to be inspected on a ramp or with a lift. He offered a workshop that could be used for 
that purpose around three miles from his home,  at a price, if required. 
Mr B added that his plan,  after having F repaired, is to sell it. And that by then the gap in 
service history will be nearer to four years. He asked if the independent assessors report  
could comment on Fs likely drop in value because of the gap in service history and for 
Admiral to compensate  him in that sum.
Mr B said he would prefer it if Admiral make him a CIL settlement. And Mr B would then 
arrange repairs with Admirals recommended repairer himself including arranging recovery, 
as long as these costs are factored  in to the CIL settlement.  
Mr B also asked for Admiral  to return Fs tool kit and service history documentation  to him. 
Admiral also broadly accepted my provisional  decision. It clarified that E was not on its panel 
of independent engineers.  It asked if Mr B would  be happy to use an independent assessor 
that was on its panel.  It also asked if Mr B would be happy to use its approved  repairer and 
had questions about the practicalities for arranging the independent engineer and recovery 
vehicles etc. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it. 
Both Mr B and Admiral  have broadly accepted  the majority of my provisional  findings. So I 
don't intend  to repeat those here and instead  will comment on the key additional points 
raised in response  to my provisional  decision.
the independent engineers assessment
Admiral has clarified that E is not currently on its panel  of independent engineers.  And its 
suggested it should use an engineering firm from its panel. But I don't think  thats fair. 
I accept that Admiral might not have an existing contractual arrangement  with E. But I don't   
think that should prevent a business of Admirals capacity from instructing an engineering  
firm on a one-off basis, regardless that this might make its administration slightly  more 
Ref: DRN213478314complicated. And I think Admiral should, at the very least, contact E within 28 days from the 
date we tell it that Mr B has accepted  my final decision to issue  instructions to carry out the 
required work. Mr B has suggested  that I award some form of financial penalty  should 
Admiral not take this Action promptly. But I don't have the power  to enforce fines against  
Admiral. And whether or not E accepts the work will be a matter for it. If E chooses  not to 
accept the job then Admiral and Mr B should  agree an alternative independent engineer  to 
carry out the assessment. Admiral should act on the independent  engineers findings and 
factor those  in when  arranging repairs or making  a CIL settlement. 
Mr Bs pointed  out that the independent engineer will need  a ramp  or lift in order to complete 
the work.  If that requires the car to be moved from Mr Bs property in order to do so, using a 
recovery vehicle, then Admiral should cover  the costs of that, as that forms part of the 
required assessment  process. 
Admiral has asked whether Mr B will insist on any recovery  truck  being covered.  And I'm 
aware that Admiral  has encountered problems in finding suitable covered trucks that can 
access Mr Bs property.  I think  its fair that Admiral need only cover reasonable costs for any 
recovery trucks required. So it need only be responsible  for what  it would cost it to transport 
F on an uncovered truck.  If Mr B wishes to use a covered truck then he may make that 
arrangement himself and Admiral need  only reimburse him for a sum equal to what it would 
have cost it to use an uncovered truck.
Mr B has also offered the use of a workshop - at a price - for the independent  engineer to 
assess his car. But it will be for Admiral to decide if it wishes  to take up Mr Bs offer or if it 
wants to use alternative  premises, as long as those  are sufficient to assess the car including, 
for example, potential  damage to the underneath of F and its rear chassis and frame.
I need to be clear that these are arrangements, together with arrangements  for repairs,  
which Admiral and Mr B will need  to make directly  with each other. Once  issued, this final 
decision brings our involvement  in the case to an end and it will not be for us to act as 
go-between or claims handlers for Mr B and Admiral. 
repairs 
Mr B has said that he is happy  to use Admirals approved repairers but to instruct them  
himself, if Admiral settles his claim on a CIL basis. As I said in my provisional  decision any 
CIL sum should include  reasonable costs  for recovering F to and from the repairers. 
service history
Mr B believed that Admiral should  compensate him for Fs drop in value because  of the gap 
in service history. I understand that Mr Bs current intention is to sell F once repairs  are 
complete. And he might think that it would be relatively simple for an independent engineer  
to assess the impact of the gap in service  history on its value. But I'm not convinced thats 
the case. F isn't an everyday road car, its a supercar.  So its appeal  will be to a fairly limited 
market. It's also almost 18 years  old and the amount that the gap in service  history will affect  
the price will, I believe, be very much down to the preferences of the individual  thats 
considering buying it at the time of the sale. So I don't  think it would be fair to instruct  
Admiral to compensate  Mr B for a potential loss in value that might  not actually happen. But I 
can understand why this is a concern to Mr B and is something I thought about when 
considering an award  of compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN213478315tool kit and service history
Mr Bs asked  that Admiral  return his tool kit. Admirals  told us it wasn't aware a tool kit was 
missing. This is something Mr B will need  to raise with Admiral separately as it's not 
something weve considered previously. Similarly, hes asked Admiral to return  Fs service 
history documents,  which he says he gave to Admirals appointed investigators. I understand 
Admiral has asked the relevant external investigators if they still hold those documents  in 
order to ask to return  them. That seems reasonable, however, as it's not an issue  weve  
investigated its not something I've made a finding  on or am directing Admiral to take action 
on at this time.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Remove the total loss marker for F from any internal and external databases making 
clear that the reasons for doing  so was that it was applied  incorrectly initially.  
Deal with Mr Bs claim for the damage to F caused by the attack in accordance with 
the policy terms. As an alternative to Admiral repairing the car, it should offer Mr B a 
CIL settlement based on the cost of repairs at the date of settlement. When  arranging  
repairs or calculating  a CIL settlement Admiral should also factor in the following 
points:
oReasonable recovery costs for collecting and redelivery of F to Mr B
oA full service
oRepair to the sagging  dashboard
oRepair to oil marks on the lower dash  below the steering  column and drivers 
door card
oRepair to the damage to the underneath of the front bumper
oRepair to the paint  damage to the rear panel  
Unless Mr B is happy to accept a costing provided by Admirals approved repairers,  
Admiral should instruct an independent  engineer to verify the costs  of the claim.
Admiral should instruct the independent  engineer to make a finding  on the following 
issues and reconsider the final claim settlement  based on the engineers findings 
concerning:
oThe extent of any repairs required because of the water  ingress  to F while  it 
was in Admirals care.  That assessment  should  include a finding on whether 
carpets, underlay and electrics have been  damaged by any water ingress. 
oIf the independent engineer feels that the sun visors have suffered the same  
damage that the dashboard  has, or if any sagging of the leather to the sun 
visors is limited to wear  and tear.
oAssess whether  damage to interior  door handles, steering cowling and rear 
console was more likely than not caused by the application of an 
inappropriate cleaning product  to it; or if this was more  likely to be a result  of 
regular wear and tear.
oExamine the passenger  seat to establish  if any marks to it are beyond what 
could be expected for a car of that age and mileage. And if the conclusion  is 
that the marks to it are excessive, given that the car would have had some  
Ref: DRN213478316wear in the first place,  I think Admiral should  be responsible  for covering half 
of the costs of cleaning,  repairing or replacing  it as necessary. 
oAssess if the head rests have been smeared  with oil while  in Admirals care. 
If they have then I think it would be fair for Admiral to be responsible for 
covering half of the costs of cleaning, repairing or replacing those as required.
oInspect the seatbelts. And if the engineers conclusion is that the seatbelts 
need to be repaired  or replaced  then Admiral should factor that in when 
settling the claim.
oAssess if using a forklift to move  the car has caused additional damage to the 
underneath of the car, rear chassis or frame and if so then this is something 
Admiral needs to take responsibility for.
oExamine the boots sensors. And if the conclusion is that the sensors  are 
damaged then Admiral should factor in the cost of repairing them  when 
settling the claim.
oMake  a finding on whether any damage  has occurred because the car has 
been jump started. And if the engineer concludes it has then Admiral  should 
factor in the costs of repair when settling  the claim.
oAssess if the tyres are safe.  If so then Admiral doesn't  need to address this 
point. But, if the engineer concludes  they are no longer safe, because of the 
delays in sorting out the repairs, then Admiral  would need to factor  the costs 
for replacement tyres when settling the claim.
Pay Mr B a further £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he 
experienced for the areas where  Admirals  service fell below an acceptable standard,  
including the lack of a courtesy car. For the avoidance of doubt this compensation 
award is on top of the £500  Admiral  had paid previously.
Reimburse Mr B the full cost of the engineers report he arranged. If Mr B has already 
paid that Admiral should also pay simple  interest  on the amount Mr B paid at a rate of 
8% a year from the date Mr B made payment until the date he is reimbursed1.
Admiral should begin  the above action within 28 days of us advising it that Mr B has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation I have awarded  to Mr B later than 
this, it must also add interest  to that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2134783