K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from British Gas Insurance  Limited  when he 
made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy. 
background
In October  2018, Mr D contacted British Gas to arrange a call-out on his HomeCare Three 
policy  which (amongst  other things)  provides  cover for plumbing  and central heating  
issues. It seems  he reported a pool of water in his cellar and two broken taps. British Gas 
arranged for a plumbing company (Y) to attend  on 29 October  2018.  Mr D says the 
engineer arrived  late and couldnt fix the issue with his taps as he needed to order some 
parts. Unhappy with the service, Mr D called British Gas to complain. It offered him £30 
compensation and said it would call him back to reschedule. But when it tried,  it couldnt get 
through.
Mr D called again on 30 October 2018 and the call handler arranged an appointment for 
9 November 2018. On that date, Mr D called in and said hed been expecting a visit from Y 
about his taps  but they hadnt shown up. 
British Gas offered  £50 compensation  and scheduled an appointment with Y for 8am-1pm  on 
16 November 2018. But the engineer called Mr D fifteen minutes after the appointment slot 
to say he was running late. Mr D then cancelled the call-out and his policy and raised  a 
complaint. He said hed lost out on ten hours  of work  costing him £530 in lost earnings. 
British Gas offered  him another £50 compensation on top of the previous £80, i.e. a total of 
£130.
Mr D didnt accept this and referred  the matter to our service. Our investigator initially  
recommended that British  Gas pay him a further £400, covering one days  lost earnings. He 
said Mr D would always have needed  to take time off for the initial  appointment and the 
follow-up. But if the 9 November 2018 appointment had gone ahead, Mr D wouldnt have 
needed to take a further day off. So he thought Mr D should be reimbursed for this.
British Gas disagreed.  It said an appointment had gone ahead  on 9 November 2018  albeit 
for a central heating  issue. Our investigator  listened to the 30 October 2018 call and found  
that Mr D hadnt mentioned his tap issue. Instead, hed requested an appointment because a 
radiator wasnt heating  up and a radiator pipe was leaking. British Gas also provided  a visit 
report for that appointment. Taking this into account, our investigator said he could no longer 
ask British Gas to reimburse Mr D for lost earnings.  He thought Mr D would always  have 
needed to be in for a further  appointment with Y. And he thought the £130  already offered 
was enough to compensate Mr D for the confusion and lateness.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed wasted a day on 9 November 2018 because  British Gas 
wasnt able to fix a basic kitchen tap. He was also unhappy with the availability  of time-slots, 
mentioning that British  Gas didnt offer weekend slots. And he said the investigator had 
made inaccuracies in his first view  although he didnt specify what these were. As 
requested, his case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN25305602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator   and for largely  the same  reasons. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think theres  been some  confusion  about the two concurrent 
issues Mr D was claiming for: the broken taps; and the broken radiator/pipe.  The tap issue  
falls under the plumbing section of his policy and was dealt with by Y (on British Gass  
behalf). The radiator issue falls under the central heating section and was dealt with by a 
British Gas engineer.  
On 29 October 2018, Y attended in relation to Mr Ds taps. And going by what  hes told us as 
well as the records from the complaint he raised that day, a follow-up appointment  was 
required. I can also see a call note was added the next day which said booked repair. But 
as our investigator found, this was for the central  heating issue rather  than the plumbing 
issue. Im satisfied that appointment went ahead as planned, as Ive seen a visit report  for 
9 November 2018 which says remade rad vale and vented system.
I know Mr D called on 9 November 2018 and said hed been  expecting a visit from Y. But Im 
not convinced  one was ever scheduled   nor that British Gas gave him the impression  it 
was. The tap issue wasnt mentioned  during the call to book the 9 November 2018 
appointment. Ultimately,  an engineer from Y would always have needed to attend again  
following the 29 October 2018  appointment.  And a British Gas engineer would always have 
needed to attend to fix the radiator issue. Given that each issue  required a different agent, 
they needed separate appointments. So I dont think Mr D had to take any additional time 
off. That means he hasnt lost any earnings due to errors by British Gas.  
I do understand Mr Ds frustration about the availability of appointments. But the policy  only 
entitles him to a visit within a reasonable timescale   it doesnt offer/guarantee  weekend 
slots. That said, I do consider there to have been some  failings  by British Gas regarding 
timescales. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the appointments on 29 October and 
16 November 2018 were both late. And I do think it should have  done  more to follow-up 
about the further appointment  required  with Y. I cant see that any further  attempts were  
made to contact Mr D about this following the unsuccessful call on 29 October  2018.  
Having said that, I am mindful that Mr D did cancel the last appointment even though  the 
engineer had called to update him about being late. And Mr D chose to cancel the 
appointment. I appreciate why he was frustrated.  But a consumers  own acts or omissions  
can affect compensation if they cause or contribute to the problems.  If Mr D had a wasted 
day on 16 November 2018,  the proximate cause  of this appears to have  been  his decision to 
cancel rather than wait just a little while longer for the engineer, who had called to explain 
the delay. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mr D of the failings for which  British  Gas was responsible. 
I think it would have  been frustrating for him to be kept waiting on several occasions, and to 
chase up British Gas about fixing his taps. But as explained above, Im not satisfied  there 
was any financial loss (such as lost earnings) as a result of these errors (as opposed to the 
inevitable and unavoidable disruption caused by the occurrence  of home emergencies). 
British Gas has already  offered £130  compensation. Im satisfied this fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience Mr D has suffered because of its errors   and is in line with 
awards weve previously made  in similar cases.  So I wont be awarding  anything further. 
Ref: DRN25305603my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas should pay Mr D £130  compensation,  if it hasnt already 
done so. This should be done within 28 days of being notified by us of Mr Ds acceptance of 
my decision,  failing which interest will accrue  at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of 
decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Mr D should note that if he accepts the decision and offer,  that will prevent him from taking 
legal action over the losses  he claims but which Ive not awarded. On the other  hand,  if he 
doesnt accept,  whilst  Mr Ds legal rights  will remain intact, the offer wont  be binding  so itll 
be strictly  a matter for British Gas as to whether  or not to honour it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2530560