K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints against insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. In our final decisions we name  the insurance company or 
regulated firm but we dont name  anyone else.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
individuals insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions. 
Ms J had a British Gas policy that included repairs to home electrics. In about May 2018, she 
called British Gas for help with a shower. 
She asked  the electrician  for help with an electric chandelier light fitting.  She complained that 
the electrician let a piece  of it go missing  and he spoke to her inappropriately. 
In its final response dated 16 August 2018, British Gas didnt accept the complaint  but it said 
it was sending a cheque for £50.00.
After the final response Ms J contacted  us on 7 February 2019 within the 6-month time limit. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was unable  to 
find it was the engineer  that lost the chandelier piece.  She said £50.00  was fair recognition 
of the impact  the service had on Ms J. 
Ms J disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
She contacted  the police about the missing part of the chandelier.
British Gas incorrectly said its electrician  told her that the part of the chandelier  was 
missing. She pointed it out to him after he had handled the chandelier.
The chandelier  is over 30 years old and of irreplaceable.
British Gas did not investigate her complaint  about its service manager.   
It is untrue that the electrical engineer  allowed her to look in his tool box.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a close-up photograph of the light fitting.  I think it is hanging from a ceiling. 
There are conflicting versions of when and how a piece of it went  missing. I find that Ms J 
has the burden of showing that the electrician  removed or lost the missing  piece.
Ref: DRN25435222Ms J has said the fitting was about 30 years old. British Gas has said that the fitting  had 
been stored on a table.  So I find it more  likely  than not that the piece had been missing  
before the electrician  arrived.
There are also conflicting  versions of what the electrician said to Ms J. I find that she has the 
burden of showing  that the electrician spoke to her inappropriately.  
In the absence of any third party  witnesses,  I dont find enough  evidence  that the electrician 
spoke to Ms J inappropriately.
A  British Gas service  manager spoke to Ms J on the telephone on about  11 August 2018.  
We have investigated  whether a call recording is available and unfortunately it isnt. The final 
response letter referred to and reviewed the service  managers  conclusion.
In summary,  whilst I dont doubt that Ms J genuinely believes that the electrician mishandled  
part of the light fitting and that both he and the service manager spoke to her inappropriately, 
there isnt enough  evidence  to show that this was the case.
Following the complaint  in May 2018,  British Gas shouldve  sent a final response  within  eight 
weeks. So its final response of 16 August 2018 was late. But it sent Ms J a £50.00  cheque. 
Ms J couldve brought her complaint to us from July 2018. But  after the final response - 
she took nearly 6 months to contact us. So I dont think  she was adversely  affected by the 
lateness of the final response.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay any more to Ms J.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2543522