K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Emergency Cash Limited  (trading as Wizzcash.com) was irresponsible  
to lend him money.
background 
Mr H had four loans from Wizzcash between  July 2016 and February 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 27 Jul 2016 £340 3m £170.63 25 Oct 2016 On time
2 28 Oct 2016 £400 3m £198.92 25 Jan 2017 21 Dec 2016
3 23 Dec 2016 £400 3m £205.09 24 Mar 2017 25 Jan 2017
4 7 Feb 2017 £400 3m £184.16 25 Apr 2017 On time
Mr H says he had short-term loans  with multiple companies when the Wizzcash loans were 
approved. He says he had a poor credit  record and his outgoings exceeded  his income. 
Mr H says this meant he was in a debt spiral and if Wizzcash had done better checks  it 
would have found this and would  also have seen the loans were fuelling  a gambling issue.
Wizzcash said it asked  Mr H about  his income and expenses and verified both his income 
and credit commitments. For all four loans, Wizzcash found Mr Hs credit commitments were  
higher than hed declared and increased his expenses accordingly. But it still considered  the 
loans were affordable  and found nothing to indicate financial difficulty  on Mr Hs credit file. 
Wizzcash declined a fifth loan application as it was concerned he may be getting into a debt 
cycle. Nevertheless, it offered to refund interest on loan 4 (plus 8% statutory interest).
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  with the 
checks carried out by Wizzcash on loans 1 to 3 and found they showed the payments were 
affordable. He clarified that Wizzcash had already  made  an offer to refund interest on loan 4.
Mr H responded to say that the purpose of such loans should be a temporary fix. He says he 
was borrowing for nine months which made  his financial situation worse. Mr H maintains 
Wizzcash should  have done better checks and, had it done so, it wouldnt have lent to him at 
all. Mr H provided evidence of his circumstances before  loan 2 to support his argument.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wizzcash was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have  made checks to make sure Mr H 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Wizzcash  had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr H applied for loan 1 he said his income was £1,600 and his expenses  were £450. 
Wizzcash verified his income by calling Mr Hs workplace and looked at his credit file for his 
credit commitments.  This showed  a higher  credit  figure than the one Mr H declared so his 
expenses were recalculated as £848. But that still gave Mr H enough disposable  income to 
afford the repayments,  so I cant conclude Wizzcash was wrong  to approve the loan.
Ref: DRN29433462Loan 2
Mr H repaid loan 1 on time and applied for a second loan three  days later.  Again  Wizzcash 
verified Mr Hs income and credit commitments  and this time calculated his disposable 
income to be around £670, making loan 2 affordable to him.
I accept Mr H has sent information about  his circumstances  from the time, but at this stage in 
the lending process  Wizzcash was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr H in 
conjunction with the checks it did. Ive seen  the expenditure information provided by Mr H at 
the time and also the results of the credit check carried out by Wizzcash. As Mr Hs credit file 
showed higher  credit  commitments than the figures  declared by Mr H, Id have expected  
Wizzcash to take that into account. But Wizzcash did that and, even with the higher credit 
commitments, it calculated the loan 2 repayments were  affordable.  There was nothing to 
indicate further checks were required and Im satisfied the checks it did do were 
proportionate to the circumstances of the loan.
 
Loan 3
Loan 2 was repaid early and Mr H applied for a £420 loan two days  later. Wizzcash did 
further verification  checks of Mr Hs declared  income  and again adjusted  his declared 
expenses upwards before offering him a slightly lower loan of £400.  I cant  see there  was 
anything in the information it had that should  have prompted Wizzcash to carry out any more 
detailed checks at that stage. I say that because the monthly repayments were still a 
relatively small proportion of Mr Hs verified income,  his repayment history was good and 
Wizzcash had again taken into account the information it received from its credit  check.
Loan 4
Wizzcash has agreed  to refund interest on loan 4, so I wont consider it further here.  It has 
also agreed to remove  any associated negative information from Mr Hs credit file.
my final decision
My decision  is that Emergency Cash Limited (trading as Wizzcash.com)  should uphold Mr 
Hs complaint about loan 4 as it has offered to do. It should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr H paid on loan 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loan 4 from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Wizzcash  to take off tax from this interest. Wizzcash 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2943346