K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Mrs ST have  complained that, when they reached the end of the term on their 
secured loan, Prestige  Finance Limited  told them there was still an outstanding balance.
background 
On 26 November 2003 Mr T and Mrs ST took out an unregulated secured loan with a 
specialised lender. They borrowed a total of £59,571.87 over a term of 15 years.  The loan is 
secured as a second charge on their property. On 6 November  2015 ownership of the loan 
was transferred to Prestige.
From time to time over the course  of the loan the account was in arrears. In 2012 a 
suspended possession order was made, requiring payment of the monthly instalment plus 
£75 per month off the arrears.
When the term was reaching its end, Mr T and Mrs ST were shocked to learn  that, even 
though their payments were up-to-date, they would still owe over £10,000. They complained  
to Prestige.
In its final response letter  dated 25 July 2018 Prestige set out what  had happened  with the 
previous owner  of the loan. This had resulted in adjustments being made to the account by 
that lender.
But Prestige also explained that, because of previous arrears,  fees,  charges and interest had 
also been incurred,  which had not been cleared by the monthly payments. 
Unsatisfied with Prestiges response, Mr T and Mrs ST complained to us. An investigator 
looked at the complaint, He thought Prestige could  have made it clearer at an earlier date 
that thered be an outstanding balance at the end of the term. He asked Prestige to pay 
compensation of £300 for this, which Prestige agreed to do.
Mr T and Mrs ST didnt  accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. In 
response to the investigators opinion, theyve made detailed points in relation to the actions 
of the previous lender.  Mr T and Mrs ST are also unhappy that Prestige  wasnt  up to speed 
with their account when  it took over the loan. They say there was an inadequate handover 
by the previous lender  and no due diligence by Prestige because  Prestige was unaware that 
there was a suspended possession order for the contractual monthly payment plus £75 per 
month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything Mr T and 
Mrs ST and Prestige have  said and listened to the phone calls on the file.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
Ref: DRN22281872No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
This loan is unregulated, and didnt  fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service until 1 April 2014. Between  1 April 2014 and 6 November 2015, the loan was owned  
by another business. On 6 November  2015 the loan was transferred to Prestige.
This means  that I can only consider whats happened  on this account  after Prestige took it 
over on 6 November 2015.  Prestige is in our compulsory jurisdiction, and so we are able to 
look at complaints about secured loans  owned  by Prestige, even if they are unregulated. But 
this only covers events after Prestige took over the loan and not to anything  that happened  
before when the loan was with previous businesses.
So although  Ive read everything  Mr T and Mrs ST have said about the previous lender, that 
lender isnt the subject of this complaint. This decision is limited to the actions  of Prestige 
after 6 November 2015.
I must also explain  that the Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt audit accounts. What  I 
have done is to review  the information provided, not to carry out my own reworking of the 
account.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr T and Mrs ST say they were making court-ordered 
payments to clear their arrears. Given this, they cant understand why the balance is still 
much higher  than they anticipated it would  be at the end of the term.
However, payment  was only going towards  the arrears, and not to any fees, charges or 
interest on those arrears, fees and charges. Arrears means the backlog of monthly 
payments that hasnt  been made  so when the arrears were  cleared, it doesnt mean the 
loan balance  itself has been paid off. It just means that Mr T and Mrs ST had caught  up with 
the monthly payments that had to have been  made.
But when a monthly payment is missed, it doesnt just put the loan into arrears  by the 
amount missed. Because  the monthly  payment is made up of both interest and an amount to 
reduce the capital, failure to pay means the overall  loan balance  wont reduce as it should. 
As a result, the balance  is higher  than it ought  to be the following month  meaning more  
interest is charged, the balance goes  up again, and then more interest is charged the 
following month.
That means that over time, where a loan has been in arrears because payments arent being 
made, the balance can go up, even after the arrears  have been paid off. And theres less 
time left to reduce it before the scheduled  end of the loan term. So even where the borrower 
has paid off the arrears  and starts  making  the original contractual monthly  payments again,  
those payments are no longer enough  to pay the loan off by the end of the term. Thats  
because clearing the arrears isnt enough  by itself to pay off the additional interest, or any 
fees and charges added  to the account,  which also attract interest.
Ref: DRN22281873Im satisfied that this is whats  happened  in this case. Having reviewed the account 
statements both from before the time Prestige took over the loan and since,  Im not 
persuaded that there has been any error  made by Prestige in its administration  of the loan 
since it took over the loan on 6 November 2015.
Im glad to see that Prestige has acknowledged that it could have given  clearer  information 
about the remaining balance to Mr T and Mrs ST sooner than it did. If it had done so, Mr T 
and Mrs ST would have  had more time to put in place a plan to repay  it. Prestige has agreed 
to pay compensation  of £300 for its poor customer service here. I think  this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Prestige Finance  Limited  
must pay Mr T and Mrs ST compensation of £300 for poor customer  service. I make no other  
order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs ST 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228187