K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) - referred  to here 
as American Express  - refused his application  for a credit card when its partnership  with his 
bank ended. He also complains of disability discrimination.
background
Mr B had two cards  provided  by his bank,  but co-branded with American Express  under a 
partnership agreement between the two businesses. Both of these cards were valid until 
2020. Mr Bs bank wrote to Mr B in June  2017 to tell him that the partnership  arrangement  
with American Express was ending. In August  2017 he was advised that his cards  would 
stop working in September  2017.  He was advised  to start using a new card from his bank  
and dispose of the old ones.  
Mr B still wanted a card with American Express though  so he applied  directly to them for a 
credit card, but it was refused. It stated that he didnt meet its credit assessment criteria. Mr 
B believed  that as he had previously had an American Express  card issued by his bank,  he 
should have been offered the new version  of the card automatically and his application 
treated as a renewal  and not a new application. 
American Express treated  Mr Bs application as a new application because he wasnt its 
customer. Instead, Mr Bs previous cards  and account were  held with his bank  
American Express was just the brand.  Mr B believed that American  Express decision was 
due to disability  discrimination. Mr B has a disability that he says would make  it very difficult  
for him to reach the financial earning  level required by American Express  to qualify for the 
card. 
Mr B complained about this. But American  Express explained that having  carried  out a 
series of internal  and external checks - Mr Bs income wasnt  sufficient for him to meet  its 
executive criteria. American Express identified that he was already making  the minimum 
payments on other accounts and didnt think itd be right to offer him further credit.  American 
Express said this had nothing to do with his disability. It also explained that his previous 
American Express credit card had been issued by his bank and that he would need to raise  
any concerns about it with them.
In June 2018 Mr B contacted our service.  Our investigator felt that American Express  had 
considered Mr Bs application fairly  and as it should have. Mr B was unhappy with this and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Here, Im only able to consider Mr Bs complaint against American Express. Ive considered 
the points Mr B has raised about his previous cards  with his bank. So while  Ive taken this 
into account when  looking at what American  Express did here  Im not reaching any 
findings on the actions of Mr Bs bank.
Ref: DRN22853362Mr Bs had an American Express branded card provided by his bank, under an agreement 
he had with this business, rather than American  Express. So when the partnership  between 
these businesses ended, Mr B no longer  had any relationship with American  Express.
That means that when he applied directly  to American Express  for a card, it was entitled to 
treat him as a new customer.  I can see why Mr B might have thought that because  his 
previous card was valid until 2020 that he might  have  an ongoing relationship  with 
American Express. But any relationship was with his bank, rather than American  Express.
So when Mr B applied  to American Express,  it treated him as it would any other  customer. It 
took information about his income  and expenditure and assessed this against other relevant 
information and its own criteria. American Express is entitled  to set its own criteria like this to 
choose who it lends  to.
Mr B feels  that it shouldnt have applied this to him because his disability makes  it more 
difficult for him to earn its required level. I understand the point hes raised  here. But 
American Express made proportionate checks based on relevant information  here.  Having 
done so, it decided that it wouldnt be willing to offer a card to Mr B, because he didnt  meet 
its criteria and it had concerns about  the affordability of the lending.  I havent seen anything 
to suggest discrimination  in the way that American  Express applied  its criteria to decide 
whether to offer Mr B credit.
The loss of the cards has caused Mr B quite some  upset but for the reasons Ive already 
given, I cant tell American Express to offer him a card here in the way hed like.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Constantia Pennie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2285336