K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
with a credit  card in 2001.  Ms M says MBNA Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms M says she wasnt aware  the PPI had been added to her account. MBNA  says it 
wouldve been made clear  to Ms M it was optional. The PPI was taken out via a postal 
application and MBNA has provided  a copy of the application form. On there   under the 
heading Payment  Protection Cover  it asks applicants to tick yes or no to take the PPI. 
On Ms Ms form the yes box has been  ticked and Ms M has signed the application form. 
So, I think MBNA made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. Ms M says she 
wouldve had sick pay benefits  from her employer but its not clear  how long this would  
have paid out for. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any benefits she might 
have had as well as covering her if she was made unemployed.  
Ms M also says she didnt have any other means   such as savings  to make her 
repayments so it would have been  useful for her if something went wrong. 
Ive noted  Ms Ms comments about her financial situation at the time but Ive not been 
given any substantial  evidence that the PPI was unaffordable. And the policy couldve 
been cancelled  at any time. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M. But MBNA  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
When the policy was sold,  MBNA  expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Ms M about that. 
Because MBNA didnt tell Ms M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN28056692my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms M.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2805669