K821x#15complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the continuing  delays  and poor workmanship by U K Insurance Limited 
in respect of her home insurance  claim for water/subsidence damage.
background
Ms F previously raised a complaint with this service  about the delays in respect of her claim 
which was resolved in May 2015. Following  this the work that was agreed upon  started  in 
November 2016.  Ms F returned to her property in July 2017.  However  she found numerous 
problems with the standard of workmanship. I wont list these in detail as they have mostly 
been resolved.  However I note that these were complex claims involving subsidence  and 
two escapes of water. UKI issued a final response  letter in October  2018.  
There is an outstanding  issue  with regard to the kitchen units. Ms F believes the contractors 
were responsible for damaging  two doors  on the units. UKI has offered  to pay for the 
replacement of the two doors and 50% towards the replacement of the undamaged items in 
the kitchen. Ms F has had quotes from kitchen suppliers and doesnt believe she should  
have to pay towards this as she believes  it is UKIs responsibility.
For the delays, poor workmanship  and other issues UKI has firstly waived the £1,000  excess  
on the subsidence claim. It has additionally paid compensation  of £1,750  (not including £700  
paid in respect of the previous complaint). UKI offered a further  £1,000.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that UKI should pay a further £1,000  on 
top of what it had offered. He thought its actions regarding the kitchen  units  were 
reasonable.
Ms F didnt believe the compensation  was sufficient to compensate  her for the length of time 
the claim had been going  on. She also thought UKI should pay in full for her kitchen.
UKI accepted the proposed compensation award.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I note the length of time this case has been going on I cant look at the issues  
surrounding the original claim and up until the first complaint was resolved in May 2015. I 
shall look at matters up until March  2020,  following Ms Fs and UKIs response to our 
investigators view. I will take into account the fact that most of the snagging works have now 
been resolved.
delays
There have clearly been substantial delays in dealing with this case. It involved complex  
claims concerning subsidence  and two escapes of water. Nevertheless following our 
resolution of this matter  in My 2015, it took a further  eighteen months before the work got 
under way. Im fully aware  how long it takes  to put in place a scope for repairs and book the 
contractors but nevertheless still think there  was an initial delay in getting the repairs  under 
way.
Ref: DRN29093812The work itself took about eight months.  Ms F had a structural engineer advising her who 
said this was far too long for the work involved.  Since then there have clearly been some  
serious delays in progressing the remedial repairs. This is because of issues  with the 
contractors who have  since withdrawn  from UKIs  list of approved repairers. There  were also 
serious faults with the loss adjusters/claim handling company instructed to oversee repairs. 
UKIs claims  handler commented  that the customer has had to make  numerous complaints 
to progress the repairs to her property..
Fortunately apart from a dispute about the cost of the kitchen repairs and a deep clean still 
needed all the snagging works have now been  completed. 
poor workmanship
Ms F had a long list of remedial repairs due to poor workmanship. I wont  list them all here,  
but as noted above  it took a long time to get the repairs done. Ill take this into account in the 
compensation figure. I understand  that the only snagging issue  remaining is the deep clean 
of the property which UKI should organise as soon as possible.
kitchen units
It is unclear what happened with regard  to the kitchen units. Ms F says that when  she left the 
property there was nothing wrong with the kitchen but when she returned she found that two 
doors had cracked.  Despite exhaustive reviews of the matter UKI wasnt able to establish  
what had happened. It was either wear and tear (the kitchen was about 25 years  old) or the 
units had been  affected by the overall  damp  in the property. It wasnt  able to say that the 
damage was done by its contractors, who denied any liability.  It was prepared  to deal with 
this as part of the claim.  Under  its policy terms it would pay for the doors but as they couldnt 
be matched with the rest of the kitchen, it was also prepared to pay 50% of the undamaged 
items (doors and carcasses).
I can understand Ms Fs reasoning, if the damage  was done by the contractors then UKI 
should be looking at replacing the whole kitchen, and the policy  terms would be irrelevant.  
But as it couldnt  say that its contractors  did the damage, it was prepared  to deal with it as it 
proposed. I think,  if the damage  was cracking  as Ms F has said that this was unlikely to have 
been done by the contractors and as I cant say that they were responsible for the damage I 
think that UKIs offer to treat the damage as part of the claim is fair and reasonable. If Ms F 
wants to accept its offer in that respect she should get in touch with it directly.
communication
There appears to have been  poor communication throughout  the claim with contractors/loss  
adjusters. I can see that Ms F had to chase matters up by email on a number of occasions.  
In turn UKI had trouble in getting  any proper answers. It clearly wasnt helped by the poor 
service from the loss adjusters and the contractors deciding to remove themselves from 
UKIs list of approved  suppliers.
compensation
For all the issues Ive mentioned bearing  in mind the time frame,  I do think  that this case  
merits an award of compensation in the severe  range.  UKI has paid £1,750 (including the 
waiving of the subsidence excess)  and is prepared to pay, in line with our investigators 
Ref: DRN29093813recommendation, a further £2,000. I think this is an appropriate amount to pay taking 
account of the circumstances  of this particular case.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to:
pay to Ms F a further £2,000 compensation
complete the deep clean of Ms Fs property
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2909381