K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Virgin Money  plc didnt give him the option  to set up a direct  debit  to pay 
his full balance  each month  when  he opened his credit card account.
background
Mr A applied for a Virgin Money credit card in August 2018. And he set up a direct debit 
during the application  process.  The direct  debit was set up to cover the minimum payment 
each month. The application didnt give Mr A the option to pay more than this by direct debit. 
But it did explain he could change the amount at a later date.
Mr A forgot about the direct debit  until he started  looking  for a mortgage earlier this year. He 
realised he had an outstanding balance on his credit card when looking into his finances. So, 
he cleared the balance  straight away. He also amended  his direct debit to pay his full 
balance each month.
Mr A complained to Virgin Money about  the fact he could only set his direct debit to repay  
the minimum payment  when he applied for his card.
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns but didnt uphold his complaint.  He explained 
that Mr A was told during the application process that he could change his direct debit 
payments at a later date. He also said Mr A would have been reminded of this because 
Virgin Money would have sent him an email and text message after his application was 
approved.
Mr A said Virgin  Money can take payment for the full balance  each  month, so it should have 
allowed him to set this up when  he applied  for his credit  card.  As Mr A disagreed with our 
investigator his complaint  was passed  to me to investigate.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 September 2019. In this I explained Virgin Money  had 
confirmed Mr A wouldnt have received a text message. But I didnt think  that meant Virgin  
Money had acted unfairly by charging Mr A interest  when he didnt pay his balance  in full 
each month.
Virgin Money and Mr A had until 10 October  2019 to respond.  Mr A asked me to consider 
additional points.  In particular, Mr A felt he wasnt treated fairly as some customers would 
have received a text message reminder  about their direct debit. He also said Virgin  Money 
had told him he wasnt  entitled to a refund of interest because he would have  received  a text 
message. He also said my provisional  decision had a vague statement as it referred  to 
accounts opened around the time Mr A opened  his.
Virgin Money accepted  my findings, but they also sent me information that showed Mr A 
would have been sent a text message. Mr A was given the opportunity to respond  to this, 
and maintained that he doesnt remember receiving a text message. He also said hes been 
honest throughout the process  and admitted he forgot to change  his direct debit  and didnt 
check his statements. 
Ive taken on board the points Mr A has raised,  but Im not persuaded this changes  the way 
I consider his complaint should be resolved. I also wanted to explain that my decision may 
contain statements  Mr A deems vague. Thats because Ive had to take steps to ensure  he 
remains anonymous.
Ref: DRN21437142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to him. But Ill explain my reasoning  
below.
I wanted to start off by saying our service cant tell Virgin  Money what its application  process 
should look like. We also cant tell it how it should  accept payments. But what we can look at 
is whether Mr A was treated any differently to other Virgin  Money customers in similar 
circumstances.
Virgin Money has sent us screenshots  of what Mr A would have seen when he applied for 
his credit card. And Im satisfied the application clearly  explained  the direct debit would be 
set up to repay the minimum  payment each month.  But it went on to say customers  could 
change the amount at a later date.  Mr A doesnt dispute this information was provided  during 
the application process. He said he forgot  to change his direct  debit. So, what happened 
during the application  isnt the reason  Im not minded  to uphold Mr As complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of an email Mr A would have been sent two days  after his credit card 
application was approved.  This email explained Mr A was able to manage his account online 
 and this included amending his direct debit.  This email went on to explain that a direct  
debit could be set for the minimum payment, a fixed amount or to clear your balance. This 
email was sent shortly  after Mr A set up his direct  debit  to repay the minimum amount each 
month. So I consider  this would have reminded him of his options  before his first bill was due 
to paid.
Virgin Money has sent us information that shows Mr A would have received a text message 
20 days after being approved for his card. And this message would have  explained a direct 
debit had been set up for the minimum payment. Mr A said he didnt receive  this message. 
But Virgin Moneys  system notes have  the same mobile number  that we have  on our 
records. So I consider  its more likely than not Mr A would have received it.
I also cant ignore that Mr A received statements  from Virgin  Money every month. These 
showed that he wasnt paying  his full balance each month. And the back of the statements 
explained what customers should do if they wanted  to setup or change a direct debit.
I consider Mr As credit card statements amounted to monthly  reminders. Thats because 
they provided the information Mr A needed  to ensure his credit  card was being  managed  in 
the way he expected. Mr A has told us he wasnt checking his credit card statements over 
the seven month period from the opening of his account, to clearing the balance in 
March 2019. And if they had been read,  Im persuaded Mr A would have increased  his 
payments to avoid being charged interest   as thats what  he wanted to do. 
Its not unusual  for credit  card accounts to charge interest on outstanding balances. And the 
terms and conditions of Mr As credit card say this is what  will happen. Given  Mr A didnt 
clear his balance  until March 2019  the interest  charged was fairly  applied to his account. So, 
it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Virgin Money  to refund this.
Ref: DRN21437143Mr A said some Virgin Money credit  card customers who set up direct  debits for the 
minimum amount had their interest refunded. Virgin Money doesnt dispute this happened. 
But theyve sent us information to show this approach didnt apply  to customers  who would 
have received the text message with a reminder.  As mentioned  above,  Im persuaded Mr A 
would have received a text message from Virgin Money 20 days after opening his account. 
So, I cant say Virgin Money  acted unfairly by not offering  Mr A a refund in interest when he 
complained about his direct debit. 
Ultimately Mr A was responsible for deciding  how he wanted to repay his credit  card.  And 
given the reasons mentioned above,  Im satisfied Virgin Money provided  regularly reminders  
about how Mr A could make payments towards  his credit card. I dont consider its fair or 
reasonable to hold Virgin Money responsible for something  Mr A admits  he forgot to do. And 
the fact Mr A forgot means he was aware  at some point, that his direct debit could be 
changed. So, I cant fairly say Virgin Money  needs to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2143714