K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains because  Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited stopped  paying  his income 
protection insurance claim and cancelled his cover  under the policy.  
background
Mr M was insured under his employers group income protection  insurance policy,  provided 
by Aviva.  
Unfortunately, Mr M had an accident  at work in October 2014.  He made a claim under his 
policy with Aviva. Aviva accepted the claim and began paying  Mr M a benefit  under his 
policy from April 2015. 
Aviva carried  out reviews of the claim and suspended Mr Ms payment  on a number of 
occasions in 2016. Each  time,  the benefit under the policy was reinstated  following Avivas 
investigations.  
In a letter to Mr M in February 2017,  Aviva  said it would be carrying  out a further review of 
the claim based on his progress  since it had last received medical  information  in December 
2016. 
After receiving and reviewing Mr Ms updated medical records, Aviva  arranged for Mr M to 
be examined by a consultant in occupational medicine. The consultation took place in 
December 2017  and the consultant concluded Mr M was fit to return to work on a part-time  
basis.  
Aviva also carried out surveillance  on Mr M over two separate  periods  of time. The 
surveillance footage was then sent to the consultant in occupational medicine whod 
examined Mr M in December 2017. In a subsequent report dated June 2018 the consultant  
said, having reviewed  the surveillance  footage  and assuming this represented  Mr Ms typical 
activities, he thought  Mr M should  be able to return to work on a full-time basis.  
Later that month, Aviva  wrote to Mr M to say payments  under his income protection 
insurance policy would be ceasing  with immediate  effect. Aviva  also said it thought  Mr M had 
intentionally and significantly  misrepresented  his symptoms in order  to benefit  from a claim 
under his policy, so it was removing him from cover. 
Mr M complained to Aviva, providing detailed commentary on both the content  of the 
consultants reports as well as the surveillance footage.  Mr M told Aviva  that, since its 
decision to terminate his claim, he had been  dismissed by his employer. 
Aviva investigated Mr Ms complaint and sent him a final response  letter  in March  2019, 
saying its position  remained unchanged.  
As Mr M remained  unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt see any reason to 
overturn Avivas conclusions. In response, Mr M provided a letter from his GP dated August 
2019. Our investigator  said this new information  didnt change  his opinion but Mr M didnt 
agree, so his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN27402872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly  address Avivas  decision  to terminate the claim before moving on to consider 
Avivas decision to cancel  Mr Ms cover. 
Avivas decision to terminate Mr Ms claim
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms policy provide  for the payment of a benefit in the event of 
incapacity of the member. In Mr Ms case, incapacity means  a benefit will be paid if Mr M 
is unable to perform the duties of his normal occupation as a result of injury  or illness.  
Aviva accepted that Mr M met the definition of incapacity and began paying him a benefit in 
2015, after the deferred period under the policy had expired. Aviva  is entitled to review  
Mr Ms claim  at reasonable intervals  thereafter  and it can terminate the claim if it thinks  there 
is evidence to show Mr M no longer  meets the policy definition  of incapacity. 
The question for me to decide is whether I think Aviva has been  unfair  or unreasonable in 
terminating Mr Ms claim, based on the evidence available to it. In doing so, its not for me to 
make a judgement  about whether or not I think Mr M is medically able to return to work.  
Instead, Ive weighed up the medical evidence which both parties have  provided  to decide, 
on the balance  of probabilities, what I think is most  likely in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr M has concerns that this service hasnt been  provided with all of his medical 
records but Mr M hasnt pointed to any specific medical information which he thinks  Aviva 
has omitted to send to us. Aviva has sent us what seems to be comprehensive information 
covering a timeframe  from 2014 until 2019. I have  no reason to doubt that Aviva has sent us 
all of the medical evidence it holds about  Mr Ms case. However,  in making my decision,  I 
wont be referencing each  and every piece of medical evidence Ive seen. Instead Ill be 
referring to what I think is the key evidence in deciding whether Aviva  has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.  
Aviva informed Mr M in February  2017 that it would be commencing a further  review  of his 
claim based on his progress since it last received his medical records  in December 2016. 
The medical records Aviva received in December 2016 contained information dating up until 
October 2016. So, I intend  to focus on the medical information about Mr M dated after 
October 2016.
A letter from the Persistent Pain Service  dated  December 2016  mentions Mr M has been 
carrying out recommended exercises  3 times per week but notes he was having  intermittent 
flare ups of back pain, causing him to reduce his activity levels. The possibility of Mr M 
receiving injections was discussed but the physiotherapist noted Mr M was unsure whether 
he is keen to undertake  these as he is aware that they are likely to have short term 
symptomatic relief  but not resolve his symptoms .
Mr Ms GP records  show he was issued with a statement that he was not fit for work due to 
back pain later the same month. Mr M was given  a further statement about  his fitness for 
work by his GP in February 2017.  Epidural injections were also discussed  at the February  
2017 consultation and Mr M was noted to be having difficulty sleeping. 
Ref: DRN27402873Mr M was seen  at the Persistent Pain Service again in March  2017 and was advised to 
continue with his management plan, including regular exercise. 
In April 2017, Mr M was given a new statement of fitness for work form by his GP.  
A letter from the Persistent Pain Service  following  a consultation  in May 2017 mentions the 
possibility of Mr M attending an inpatient programme for persistent  pain.  The physiotherapist 
noted Mr M was taking medication and discharged Mr M from the Persistent Pain Service  
on that day. 
In June 2017, Mr Ms GP provided  him with a further statement that he was not fit for work.  
A letter from Mr Ms GP dated August 2019, which Mr M provided in response  to our 
investigators opinion,  confirms Mr M has been diagnosed with degenerative lumbar spine 
disease and that a neurosurgeon had decided on non-operative conservative management. 
The GP confirms Mr M had intensive  physiotherapy and medical  management of his 
condition, his pain levels fluctuate and Mr M would  probably have to live with these 
symptoms to some extent for the foreseeable future.  
The GP concluded by saying;
It has been  recommended that he leads an active life  and it is recommended  that 
he exercises as far as his body allows him. Continues  to have medical management  
of his symptoms in the form of analgesia. 
Having reviewed this evidence, I have no doubt Mr M does suffer  with a back  condition  
which is likely to affect his daily life to some  extent. I also understand his GP has been 
issuing him with statements confirming that he is not fit for work. But this doesnt 
automatically mean Mr M is entitled  to continue receiving a benefit under the terms and 
conditions of his policy with Aviva. There is no explanation in any of these records  about  how 
Mr Ms ability to do his job is affected by his back condition,  why he is unable to perform  the 
duties of his normal  occupation or what his prognosis is (either  with or without further 
treatment) for returning  to work in some capacity. 
Ive considered the report provided by the consultant in occupational medicine following 
Mr Ms examination in December 2017.  This report summarised Mr Ms medical history,  
noting that he had been discharged from physiotherapy and mentioning his prescriptions for 
pain relief. The report set out what Mr M told the consultant about his symptoms and daily 
activities. The consultants opinion included the following comments;
On physical  examination  I doubt that he employed  maximal effort,  especially when I 
attempted to assess power in his lower  limbs.  He was able to get on and off the 
examination couch without assistance  and was also observed crouching down.
The consultants conclusion was;
On the balance of probabilities, after carefully  considering all aspects of his case, I 
believe that he is fit to perform the material and substantial  duties  of his occupation 
on a part time basis,  working initially between 12 and 16 hours  a week. 
A graduated  return  to work was noted as being  beneficial. 
Ref: DRN27402874Following a review of surveillance footage  provided by Aviva, the content of which Ive 
addressed in more  detail  below, the consultant issued a further report in June 2018.  The 
consultant referred  back to Mr Ms description of his daily activities  noted in his earlier  report;
When I saw him most  recently he informed  me that he was worse than when I had 
previously seen him  he was able to walk between 5 and 10 minutes before the 
pain was so severe  that he had to discontinue   He also tried to go to the gym, 
doing cardio exercises using the stepper and doing  a little rowing, and also exercised  
both with free and fixed weight, which he described  as light. He led me to believe that 
he was going  to the gym a lot less than previously. In addition he is able to go 
shopping for light items of groceries.
The consultants professional, expert  opinion  having reviewed the surveillance footage  was;
This man did seem  to be very considerably  more  mobile than was portrayed to me 
at the examination in December 2017, and he moved freely  at all times and was able 
to bend, crouch,  and partake of strenuous exercise which  most  people  of his age 
would find relatively  challenging.
The consultant concluded:
His level of functional  ability displayed within the surveillance period was not at all 
consistent with his presentation to me at examination
Assuming the surveillance evidence represents  typical activities   he should now be 
able to return to work  in his role  on a full time basis.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments disputing some of these observations. But, the 
reports from the consultant are, in my opinion, persuasive and detailed  evidence. I dont 
think it was unfair for the consultant to revise his medically qualified opinion  of Mr Ms 
abilities based  on his interpretation of the surveillance footage. I think  the consultants 
reports carry more weight  than the content  of Mr Ms medical records dating from October 
2016, including his GPs letter of August 2019.  
I understand Mr M has mentioned other specialists havent ever doubted  the effort he 
employed during  examinations. However,  what Im considering here is the medical evidence 
as it relates to Mr Ms heath and abilities from October 2016 and whether I think this 
demonstrates its likely Mr M was able to perform  the duties of his normal  occupation from 
February 2017, when  Aviva told him it was carrying out a further review of his claim. I dont 
think any medical examinations  prior to October  2016 are relevant to this. 
Overall, based on the medical evidence Ive seen,  I think its likely Mr M no longer met the 
definition of incapacity  under his policy when Aviva reviewed his claim in 2017.  So, I dont 
think Avivas decision  to terminate payment of Mr Ms claim in June 2018  was unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Avivas decision to cancel  Mr Ms cover under the policy
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms policy give Aviva the right to cancel a members cover if 
a member knowingly  withholds information from Aviva. 
Ref: DRN27402875Aviva cancelled Mr Ms cover because it said he failed to mention his true level of activity to 
the consultant in December 2017, and that there was a clear disparity between the 
information Mr M provided and his actual level of functioning shown in the surveillance 
footage. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think Aviva  acted  unfairly  or unreasonably  by 
cancelling Mr Ms cover.  
Its not in dispute  that exercise formed part of Mr Ms treatment plan.  I think  this is very clear  
from his medical records. 
The consultants report from Mr Ms examination in December 2017 noted what  Mr M said 
about his daily activities. Ive quoted what I think are the relevant extracts  from this report  
below:
With regard to activities, he is able to walk for between 5 and 10 minutes before the 
pain is so severe that he has to discontinue
During the day he  takes his daughter to school, walking her there  and it is located  
on the next street. If he is in a lot of pain his wife takes her 
He also tries to go to the gym and does cardio  exercises including using the stepper  
and a bit of rowing. He also exercises  with both free and fixed weights  which he 
described as light.  He is unable to specify how heavy they were.
He is also able to go shopping for light items  of groceries,  but if it is a heavier shop 
his wife undertakes  this and he stays in the car.
Ive reviewed the surveillance footage  and, based on its contents,  I dont think  Aviva has 
been unfair or unreasonable  in ending Mr Ms cover  on the basis  that he didnt give the 
consultant accurate information about his abilities. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments about the surveillance footage, his timeline of what  
is shown and his statements  about  what he told the consultant. I accept, as Mr M has 
pointed out, he can be seen holding his back at various points in the footage. I also note 
Mr M says his pain was worse on the day of his examination in December 2017. However, 
these points dont  change my decision that Aviva hasnt acted unfairly.
This means  I wont  be asking Aviva  to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740287