K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have made a complaint because they are unhappy  with the service they 
received from Aviva  Insurance Limited  when they made a claim on their travel insurance  
policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs G were sold a travel  insurance policy by their bank. They were planning an 
expensive holiday abroad. Mrs G experienced some health issues  which  led to the trip being 
cancelled. Mrs Gs health issue was resolved  by the time the trip was due to take place. 
Mr and Mrs G made a claim for the deposit  theyd  paid, which was around £1,900. Aviva 
initially declined the claim based on the information  provided by the GP, which  was 
inaccurate. 
Aviva have since agreed to pay the claim and cover the cost of the deposit, less the policy 
excess. They acknowledged in the final response  letter they had overlooked  information  that 
had been provided but didnt agree theyd obtained information from unreasonable  sources.  
Mr and Mrs G were directed to raise  a complaint with their bank if they were concerned 
about the sale of the insurance. 
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy with Avivas  handling of the complaint. They  think the 
conduct of Aviva and their GP amounts to fraud and there were deliberate attempts to avoid 
paying the claim. They say that the GP modified information and he must have been in 
contact with Aviva during  the claims process. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He explained our service couldnt make  a 
finding about the GPs actions as that would be something for the relevant regulatory body to 
determine. However, he did think Aviva shouldve paid the claim at an earlier  stage. So he 
recommended Aviva  pay Mr and Mrs G £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Aviva agreed with our investigators recommendation.  Mr and Mrs G dont  think  this is 
enough  they feel a much higher figure  would be fair and have said theyll  settle for £1,000 
compensation each.  They  also remain concerned about fraudulent activity and collusion 
between the GP and Aviva. So I need  to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. So my role is to decide  if Aviva has acted  
fairly in the individual circumstances  of this case. Its not for me to investigate or comment  on 
Mr and Mrs Gs wider concerns about large  scale fraudulent activity between insurers  and 
medical practitioners. As our investigator  explained  that would be something Mr and Mrs G 
would need to raise  with the regulator. 
I also cant make a decision about the actions  of the GP as thats not a regulated activity 
within our services jurisdiction. The investigator has already provided  Mr and Mrs G with 
information about how they can make  a complaint about the GP if they want  to. 
Ref: DRN28158512Mr and Mrs G have made a number of comments and provided lots of reports  and 
documentation. I have  considered all of them. However, Ill only refer to those that are 
relevant to my decision. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  says that Aviva should handle claims promptly  and 
fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Aviva accepts that it overlooked  
information and the claim  should have accepted at an earlier  stage. So I need  to decide 
whether £300  compensation  is fair and reasonable. I think this fairly reflects the trouble and 
upset caused.  I say that because: 
Mr and Mrs G did have to do a lot of work to ensure their claim was paid. This 
included going  through a lot of paperwork,  getting information from their GP and 
contacting Aviva  about the claim. This took a lot of time and effort on their part over a 
period of a number  of months. I agree  they shouldnt have had to do this but I think  
compensation of £300 fairly  reflects the trouble this caused
Mr and Mrs G were caused  a lot of upset.  Mr G has explained that, given their 
circumstances, they felt there were more limited  opportunities  to plan future travel 
while this issue was outstanding. This is understandable particularly given the 
significant amount  of money theyd paid as a deposit for the holiday they had to 
cancel. However, Im satisfied the award of £300  reflects  the worry they experienced 
in relation to this issue
I agree  Aviva overlooked information  provided  and could have done more  to get the 
claim sorted  at an earlier stage. However,  I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably 
by accessing Mrs Gs medical records. Aviva asked Mrs G to sign a form consenting  
to the release of her medical records, which she did. I can also see that theres a 
chain of emails in which Aviva mentioned a number  of times they had asked the GP 
for more  information. And, when Mr G asked if he could see a copy of the further 
information, Aviva said that he could.  So Im satisfied Aviva  was trying  to resolve the 
claim when they asked for more information  
Ive not seen evidence of a deliberate  attempt by Aviva to obstruct  the claim in 
collusion with the GP in the manner that Mr and Mrs G have suggested. The minutes 
of Mr and Mrs Gs meeting with the GP, produced  by Mr G, record the GP as having 
made the comment: from the insurers  point of view there  was very little difference  
between an infection of labia and a UTI. I dont  think  this suggests there were 
ongoing conversations  between the GP and Aviva or that Aviva were  instructing  the 
GP what to put in the forms. I think its more likely the GP was proffering his thoughts  
on whether the claim would be successful if he clarified the details  of Mrs Gs 
treatment. So Im not persuaded Aviva were  instructing the GP about what  he should 
put in the report.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Aviva Insurance  Limited and directing them  to 
put things right by paying them £300  for the trouble and upset caused by not accepting the 
claim and overlooking information provided. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN28158513Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815851