K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) declining  his motor  
insurance claim and avoiding his policy.
background
Mr Ws motorbike  was stolen following a burglary  at his home. MCE declined  his insurance 
claim because  Mr W didnt store his bike where  he said he would when he took out his 
policy. MCE also avoided the policy because they said Mr W had deliberately  
misrepresented where his bike would be stored.
Our adjudicator found that MCE hadnt acted reasonably. In the call when Mr W took out the 
policy he mentioned  both storing the bike in his flat and using a ground anchor. The 
adjudicator felt MCE hadnt questioned  Mr W about this. The adjudicator  also felt that MCE 
hadnt taken Mr Ws disability into consideration, or taken into account  this was his first 
insurance policy and he wouldve  had limited knowledge as to how insurance  policies work. 
Because of this, the adjudicator felt this was a careless misrepresentation, not a reckless or 
deliberate one. He recommended  that MCE settle the claim in line with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012  (CIDRA). He also recommended MCE 
pay Mr W £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the avoidance of his policy.
MCE didnt agree with the adjudicator. Theyve  said no additional questions  were required as 
Mr W couldve been thinking about having  a ground anchor fitted in his living  room. Theyve 
also said that disability  is not a rating factor, so they didnt need to ask any more questions 
about this; and that the policy terms said Mr W must  take reasonable care to ensure the 
information he gave  them was correct.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W has said this was a genuine mistake from someone whos  never had insurance before. 
Hed intended to keep his bike in his second  floor flat, but it was too big and heavy for him to 
get inside. Because of this he bought a ground  anchor (which he concreted into his drive), a 
large steel chain, a padlock and an alarmed disc lock. He doesnt think  he was reckless, and 
feels he took good lengths  to protect  his bike from theft. But because  his keys were taken in 
a burglary, regardless of what hed done  the bike would  still have  been  stolen.
Mr W has also said he has Postural  Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS) which  affects his 
memory and cognitive function. This means  he has difficulty thinking, concentrating and 
remembering things, and can suffer from brain  fog.
Ive listened to the call when Mr W set up his insurance policy  with MCE, and during this call 
hes clearly confused. Mr W said he wasnt going  to be the only rider, but when questioned 
about the other rider(s) he confirmed there  were  no others. When  he filled out an online form 
before calling MCE Mr W also said hed had previous motor  insurance, but on the call Mr W 
confirmed hed never had insurance.  
Ref: DRN27206912Mr W also said his bike would be secured by a cemented floor anchor, data tag, immobiliser 
and an alarm but also that it would be stored in his flat. MCE didnt ask any questions to 
clarify this discrepancy, nor did they ask any questions  when Mr W said he was unable  to 
work due to disability   I would have expected them to ask if Mr W needed  any reasonable 
adjustments and, had they done so, its likely Mr W wouldve explained how his disability 
affected him. Ive also noted that, during this call, MCE didnt tell Mr W that if anything  
changed he would need to let them  know,  as it may affect his insurance policy.
I dont think its reasonable to conclude from the call that Mr W was going  to install a ground 
anchor in his living  room,  as MCE have said; and its more  reasonable to conclude  that Mr W 
intended to store his bike both inside and outside  his property. Had MCE queried  this on the 
call, it couldve been clarified at the time and the policy correctly rated  MCE wouldve 
insured the bike if it was stored outside,  but at a different premium.
MCEs policy terms say you must  take reasonable care to ensure you answer all questions  
honestly to the best of your knowledge  and not misrepresent any answers when  you take out 
your policy,  throughout  the life of your policy and when you renew your policy.  I feel Mr W 
telling MCE about  the ground anchor and keeping the bike in his flat was a result of his 
confusion, which led to a careless misrepresentation. I also feel that his inexperience with 
insurance along with his disability wouldve meant  he didnt know to tell MCE when  he wasnt 
able to get the bike into the flat. 
Because of this, I agree with the adjudicator that this wasnt  a reckless or deliberate 
misrepresentation under CIDRA,  but was a careless  misrepresentation. This means  that 
MCE should settle Mr Ws claim  proportionately  and not avoid the policy.
I also agree  that MCEs failure to properly question  Mr W about the discrepancy in the 
storage of the bike; not questioning him about his disability and establishing if any 
reasonable adjustments were needed;  and not taking into account his inexperience and lack 
of knowledge  by, for example, telling  him that he needed to tell them  of any changes, has 
resulted in Mr W suffering  a significant  amount of trouble and upset. Because  of this I agree 
that MCE should pay him £250 compensation.
putting things right
MCE should reverse the avoidance  of Mr Ws policy and settle his claim in line with the 
following CIDRA formula:
MCE should also pay Mr W £250 for the trouble  and upset caused by the avoidance of his 
policy.
Ref: DRN27206913my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint about MCE Insurance Company 
Limited and they must follow the directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2720691