K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy about the compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  paid to him for the mis-
sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI) associated with three business loans and the 
overdraft on his business bank account. 
background
Mr K took out 3 loans between 1996 and 2002  related  to his business and says he took out 
PPI policies alongside each loan. He also had a PPI policy associated with his business 
current account overdraft,  that was taken out in 1996. 
Mr K complained to Lloyds in 2013  and it upheld his complaint in part saying that the PPI 
with one loan and on his bank account had been mis-sold and it offered some  compensation 
to settle the complaints relating to these two policies.  It did not uphold that PPI was mis-sold 
on one other  loan ending 3794.
Mr K wasnt  happy with the compensation and he said there  were  other  costs  and charges 
that should be refunded and went back to Lloyds. Lloyds didnt agree that any of the costs  
and charges indicated were  caused by the PPI that had been mis-sold. 
Then in 2016  Lloyds  reviewed Mr Ks accounts again and said it had found a further loan 
account, ending  7066 that also had PPI. Lloyds said the PPI sold with this loan was          
mis-sold and also it had changed its view on the PPI sold with loan 3794 which it hadnt 
upheld in 2013. So Lloyds reviewed and recalculated the compensation due to Mr K and 
paid further compensation. 
Mr K was still unhappy with the compensation and brought his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in March  2020. Mr K has accepted my 
provisional decision and provided no further  evidence or comments. 
Lloyds has asked for more time to consider the provisional decision  and provide a response.  
However, despite over three months  being given for a response,  and an indication  from 
Lloyds at the beginning of July that a response would be sent within a week,  nothing has to 
date been received from Lloyds. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds stated in 2016 to Mr K that it agreed  all the policies sold with loans 3794, 5176  and 
7066, and with the overdraft on account 9747 were mis-sold. It offered compensation to 
settle the complaints about all these policies. So in this decision I am looking at whether the 
compensation paid to Mr K is fair and if any further  compensation  should  be paid for 
consequential loss.
I have looked  at the information provided by Lloyds about the way it has worked out the 
compensation due for the mis-sold PPI policies.
PPI sold with the loans 
Ref: DRN23377432Looking firstly at the PPI sold with the two loans 5176 and 7066, Lloyds has the full 
information for these  loans. It worked out the premiums paid, the interest caused by the 
premiums and some compensatory interest  for any time Mr K was out of pocket to produce 
the compensation figure. This is what I would expect it to do to return Mr K, as far as 
possible, to the position  he wouldve been  in if he hadnt taken out the PPI policies.
Turning to loan 3794 taken out in 1996,  Lloyds said it had no detail and records  about this 
loan and the PPI as it was a long time ago. When it first considered this complaint in 2013 it 
said PPI had been sold with the loan but it didnt  uphold  that the PPI was mis-sold. However, 
when it reviewed the complaints in 2016 it said it upheld the complaint about the mis-sale 
and offered compensation for the PPI sold with this loan.
Because Lloyds  didnt  have information  about  how much  was actually paid for the PPI with 
this loan, Lloyds  offered  what  is called average compensation. That is an amount of 
compensation that others taking out similar levels of loans  during a similar period would 
have been and includes an amount for the PPI premium, interest on the premium  and 
compensatory interest.
I asked Lloyds for some clarification of the average  offer it had made for loan 3794. Lloyds 
responded that the average  offer made  for the PPI on this loan had been offered incorrectly  
as it did not have any evidence that this loan was taken out with PPI. 
Lloyds went on to say:-
When Average redress was offered in 2016, the loan was incorrectly allocated with a 
BLRI refund of £70.71 which was paid in to the business account 27/07/2005. 
Looking at the 3 x loans  it appears that the refund should have been allocated to loan 5176 
above which almost  ran to term. Due to the closing balance of loan 3794 this BLRI  refund 
could not be for this loan as the BLRI and the loan are paid off at the same  time. This would 
mean that the loan if had PPI it would  have received a far greater BLRI  refund
It was unclear why Lloyds  said this refund amount  related to a PPI policy  that ended  in 2001. 
Loan 5176 ended in November 2003  not 2005  and again the date of the refund to the 
current account is not logically related  to this loan. 
Lloyds has said previously that it has based  its compensation  calculation  for PPI with loan 
5176 on actual  records of the account.  The calculations  provided show  a rebate of £253.77. 
Therefore it was unclear why Lloyds was suggesting this £70.71 amount was a rebate for 
loan 5176 and why this rebate could suggest there was no PPI actually on loan 3794.
Lloyds had never previously indicated, when  looking at Mr Ks complaint, that there  was no 
PPI with loan 3794.  It originally defended  that the PPI sold with this loan was mis-sold and 
then on review in 2016  changed that to an uphold.
Considering all the facts  available  about  Mr Ks loans and overdrafts, he clearly took out PPI 
on loans 5176  and 7066 and also on his overdraft. The overdraft  PPI and Loan 3794 were  
taken out at within a short  time of each other in 1996. I therefore think  it most likely Mr K did 
take out PPI with loan 3794  as he took out PPI with all his other loans and lending  facilities. 
There is no evidence to show  why Lloyds has suggested PPI wasnt taken out with Loan 
3794, when it has previously accepted the loan did have a PPI policy  associated  with it, as 
did all Mr Ks other loans.
Ref: DRN23377433I raised all these points in my provisional decision and Lloyds has provided  no clarification or 
further evidence  about the issues I highlighted.
Lloyds upheld the complaint that PPI was mis-sold  with Loan 3794  in 2016 and I am satisfied 
that is a fair and reasonable approach.  So it must pay fair compensation for PPI that was 
sold with this loan.  And I dont think the average offer Lloyds made  previously is fair, taking 
account of the loan information available.
There is one statement for the last few months of the loan. Lloyds says this loan started in 
February 1996 and so the statement available indicates that the loan ran for five years 
before being settled  in January 2001. It is unclear how long the full term of the loan should 
have been but after the five years of repayments  the balance  settled by Mr K in 2001 was 
just over £40,000. Looking at the monthly  repayments and interest charged, the original loan 
including the PPI, would possibly have  been  around  £50,000. 
In my provisional decision I indicated I was not satisfied that the average  offer made by 
Lloyds of £2,800, including compensatory  interest,  was fair. I said I thought Mr K would have 
paid more than £2,199  for the PPI whilst making the loan repayments over the five years  it 
was open. He would also have paid an amount  in the settlement figure, receiving only a 
partial rebate on the PPI premium  charged.  
I requested Lloyds should use the information  it had about this loan to estimate what Mr K 
may have  paid for the PPI for the dates it was running and also as part of the settlement 
figure. And I asked that Lloyds provided an offer based on an estimated  amount using the 
figures available for the loan. Alternatively, I asked that Lloyds provide an offer of 
compensation based on an average  offer, in line with the level of the loan at around 
£50,000.
Lloyds has not provided any response to my provisional decision and given no indication of 
whether it can ascertain  an average  offer. Nor has it provided any offer amount. 
Therefore, based  on what I have  seen, I consider it most likely  Mr K took out a loan of some  
£50,000 and paid for a PPI premium on this amount  of loan, the premium for the PPI being  
added to the loan amount Mr K borrowed.  I am satisfied  this PPI was mis-sold, and Lloyds 
has said it was mis-sold, as were all the PPI policies sold to Mr K. 
To compensate Mr K for the mis-sale of this policy I am directing that Lloyds should work out 
how much  the premium may have been  that was charged for the PPI on a loan of this 
amount. 
Lloyds should  then work out how much of the premium, and the interest charged on it, was 
repaid by Mr K whilst the loan was running  for five years. On early settlement  Lloyds  can use 
the standard approach  to work out the rebate that is most likely to have been paid and 
removed from the loan. This will enable Lloyds to ascertain the amount Mr K would have 
paid in the settlement figure  for the PPI.
This should give Lloyds the amount of redress due to Mr K for what he paid for the policy   
that is the amount of premiums  and interest repaid over the five years  the loan was active  
plus the amount  included  in the early  settlement  payment  for the loan. 
Lloyds must  also work out compensatory interest  on what  Mr K paid and was out of pocket 
for the period from the date of each payment of the PPI until the date of final settlement. The 
Ref: DRN23377434rate of compensatory  interest is 8% simple  per year and Lloyds must deduct  from this 
compensatory interest  basic rate tax as required by HM Revenue  and Customs
I am not aware that Lloyds has made any payment of compensation to Mr K for this 
particular policy to date.  If it has, then that can be taken into account  when making  the 
payment of compensation to him.
PPI sold with overdraft  on bank account
Mr K took out PPI to cover the overdraft in May 1996. Due to the length  of time since the PPI 
was taken out not all records about  the PPI with the overdraft are available. After  seeking 
further clarification from Lloyds, it has indicated there seems to have been an amendment  
that occurred  in June 1996. 
Because the system  records have identified  two dates, Lloyds has undertaken a calculation  
as if there  were two policies. So for what it has referred to as 9747(1) it has calculated the 
compensation using the actual data it has and made some  assumptions for missing  data.  It 
has done this on the basis that the PPI ran from 13 May 1996 to 15 May 2007.
For what it has deemed a second policy it has paid an average  compensation offer.  The date 
showing on the system for the start of this policy is 12 August 1996  as a second  policy  date. 
It would appear this is an amendment date rather than a new policy. However as this cannot 
be confirmed Lloyds  as offered  average redress on the assumption this was a separate 
policy.
Overall for this PPI on the overdraft account  I think what Lloyds has done is fair and paid 
appropriate compensation for the PPI mis-sold alongside the overdraft.
additional costs  caused by the PPI
I have considered carefully Mr Ks arguments  that the PPI has caused additional costs for 
him. I have  looked carefully at how the loan and PPI repayments were taken out of his bank 
account to see if the PPI portion of any monthly repayment of PPI would have taken him into 
his overdraft so directly causing more costs for him.
I cannot see that the PPI did cause any of the bank charges Mr K paid. I have looked at the 
proportion of the repayments that would most likely  have  been paid for the PPI. If Mr K 
hadnt paid the PPI no one can be certain  what he would have done with that small amount 
each month. But even if it hadnt  been  paid, the charges to his bank account would still have 
occurred because of this other spending.  
I know Mr K has suggested that the total compensation he has been paid should be taken as 
a whole when  considering  the bank charges. But this total amount of compensation was not 
all for the PPI he paid.  It included a proportion of compensatory interest  as compensation for 
being out of pocket. Also, the amount of PPI paid was a small amount each month and 
accumulated over many years, so it would not have  been available as a lump sum to Mr K.
Overall, I dont  think the PPI has directly  caused any additional charges and costs  for Mr K. 
So I am not upholding that part of Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN23377435summary
From what  I have  seen, I am satisfied that what Lloyds has paid in compensation for the     
mis-sold PPI on loans 5176 and 7066  and on the overdraft on bank account 9747 is fair.
But I am not satisfied  that the average offer made  by Lloyds for PPI on loan 3794  is fair. So 
Lloyds should  calculate compensation for the miss-sold  PPI policy  on this loan on the basis 
the loan was for £50,000, as I have  indicated above.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I am upholding in part Mr Ks complaint and directing that 
Lloyds Bank  PLC must  recalculate  the compensation due for the PPI sold with loan 3794 as 
I have indicated.
I am satisfied that the compensation offered and paid for the PPI sold with two other loans  
and the bank account were fair. And I am not upholding that additional  charges were  caused 
by the PPI that was mis-sold to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2337743