K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Society  of Lloydss (SoL) decision to decline a claim he made  under 
his buildings insurance policy. 
background
In early 2016, Mr K found water had entered his property, causing damage to two of the 
rooms on the top floor.  He notified  SoL and made  a claim. In December 2016, Mr K says he 
found evidence  of water entering the property  again.  He thought  it was likely this was as a 
result of water overflowing from the guttering, and potentially the roof had been damaged by 
recent stormy conditions. Mr K arranged to repair the roof, along  with the coving in the rear 
bedroom and bathroom ceiling, both of which Mr K says were  damaged  as a result of the 
water ingress.
In January 2017 Mr K says he contacted the loss adjuster who had dealt with the earlier  
claim about water ingress. SoL says it was of the view that this related to the first claim, with 
the previous insurer.  It was only in early 2018 that it became clear Mr K was referring  to a 
second event.
In March 2018, SoL arranged for a loss adjuster to inspect Mr Ks property. However, the 
loss adjuster said, as a result of the repairs being carried out, they werent able to determine 
whether the water damage had been  linked to an earlier claim Mr K made  in 2015 (to a 
different insurer) or whether a separate insurable  event  had occurred. As a result,  SoL 
declined Mr Ks claim, saying the late reporting of it meant they were unable to determine 
whether the cause of the claim was an insurable event. And, by carrying  out the repairs, SoL 
said Mr K had prejudiced  the underwriters position  as they werent able to assess  the claim 
in line with the policy terms.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators  considered  it, along  with 
Mr Ks view that the water ingress  had most likely been the cause of water entering the 
property. However, our investigator didnt think that SoL had acted incorrectly  in declining  Mr 
Ks claim. As Mr K didnt  agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The issue  I need to decide is whether SoL is entitled to decline Mr Ks claim under the
policy and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same conclusions  as the investigator,  and for the same reasons.
As a starting point,  Ive considered the terms set out in Mr Ks policy: 
Claims reported after 30 days of discovery  may be invalidated Emergency or 
temporary repairs following a loss or damage are permitted. Please keep all receipts 
for these  works as they may form a basis of your claim but refrain from making full 
repairs until we consider your claim
SoL declined  Mr Ks claim because it said that the late reporting of the claim and repair 
works carried out meant it was unable to identify  whether an insurable event had taken 
Ref: DRN25998732place. It said, despite Mr Ks view the damage  was most likely to have been as a result of 
storm conditions, it was unable to identify whether storm  conditions were present at the time 
the damage occurred.  
The policy terms require Mr K to notify his insurer  upon discovering any potential damage.  
Mr K says he contacted  a loss adjuster who had considered a previous claim, to report  the 
damage. But I dont  think  this was sufficient to comply with the terms of the policy,  and Mr K 
needed to tell his insurer about  the potential claim  and within 30 days  or he risked  the 
claim being invalidated. Its accepted by all parties that Mr K didnt notify SoL that he might 
have cause to make a new claim until several  months after he identified  the damage.  And, at 
this point, hed already  carried out any repairs.
Mr K has told us why he moved forward with the repairs. However, Im mindful that by doing  
so, the loss adjuster instructed by SoL was unable to assess  what damage might have been  
caused by an insurable event, or which repairs might have been covered by the policy.  Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr K, but I consider  SoL turned down his claim in line with the policy  
terms. It follows I dont  think SoL acted incorrectly in declining his claim, so I dont think it 
needs to take any further action to consider his claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against  Society of Lloyds.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2599873