K820x#14complaint
Mrs L, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr L, has complained  that Capital One (Europe) plc 
mis-sold Mr L a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr L took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card by post in 1999. 
Although Mrs L was named as an additional  card holder, the credit was just in Mr Ls name 
and the PPI was only covering him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs L has said that she and Mr L didnt know the card had PPI attached  to it, meaning that it 
was added without  their knowledge or consent. However Ive seen the application form Mr L 
filled in. It was a postal application  that Mr L completed at home  before returning.  The form 
has a separate  section  for PPI that contained  Yes  and No boxes to either request or 
decline the PPI. Mr L has ticked the Yes  box. From the layout and wording of the form I 
think that Mr L would have known that he had a choice about  taking  out the PPI. It seems  to 
me that he decided to buy it, knowing  that he didnt have to.
There was no input  from any Capital  One staff at the time that Mr L completed the form. As 
Capital One didnt advise Mr L to take out the PPI, it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr L with sufficient information for him to make  an informed 
choice about whether  or not it was right for him.
I consider that Mr L must have known something about the policy  that it would  cover  his 
credit card payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mrs L cant remember what sick pay Mr L would have received from his job. Regardless of 
this, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially  for longer than 
Mr L would  have received full pay for. And Mr L didnt  have  any other means,  such as 
savings, to fall back  on.
Mrs L has talked about the fact that she was working part-time and that she later suffered 
from illness. However, this is not relevant to this case as it was Mr Ls credit  card and the 
PPI only covered him.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly the things that it didnt  cover. But Mr L was not affected by any of those 
things. As I consider  he had an interest  in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  that 
Ref: DRN22258762further information would have caused him to change his mind.  So he was no worse off as a 
result of anything Capital One may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Capital One 
needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  the estate of the late Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mr L, to accept or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2225876