K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled her furniture warranty  
claim for accidental damage to her sofa. 
background
Mrs B took out a furniture warranty with Ageas when she purchased her two sofas. She 
made her first claim for accidental damage  in February 2016. This was resolved in 
August 2016 when  Ageas replaced  the damaged seat cover.
Mrs B made a second  claim for accidental  damage caused by spilt gravy,  tea and chocolate  
in September  2016. The claim  was accepted and a technician was sent out by Ageas  
10 days later to carry out a professional clean to the whole seat panel. About three weeks  
later Mrs B called Ageas to report that the repair had failed. She said a stain  remained on 
one cushion and a water mark had been left on another.  Ageas asked Mrs B to send it 
photographs of the damage. It followed this request up by email  and closed the claim 
pending their receipt. 
In mid-February 2017 Mrs B called Ageas to make a third claim  for accidental damage 
caused by a leak from the upstairs bathroom onto the sofa seat below. The claim was 
accepted and Ageas decided a repair was possible.  This was booked  for the last week  in 
March. The appointment was cancelled  by the technician on the day because he was unwell. 
Mrs B didnt have her work schedule to hand so asked Ageas to call her back  on the 
following Monday  to re-arrange the appointment.  
Twelve days later,  Mrs B called Ageas to rearrange the technicians visit. This was booked  
for the last week of April. Ageas, as normal sent out SMS messages to Mrs Bs mobile 
phone on the day before and two days before the appointment. On the morning of the 
appointment the technician called Mrs B to let her know  what time hed be with her. Mrs B 
said shed been  told the appointment was on another day and she was now at work.  The 
technician called her back later in the day to offer an appointment but Mrs B was still at work. 
Eleven days later Mrs B called Ageas to ask for the appointment  to be rescheduled. It was 
rebooked for two weeks time. During  this call Mrs B raised another  claim  a fourth. That 
claim was for the failed  repair  of claim 2. Ageas was happy to re-open  the claim and said 
that the technicians next visit could include an inspection  of that damage.  
On the same  day the technician visited he filed his report. The next day Ageas told Mrs B 
that claim 3 was covered and a repair was possible by professionally  cleaning the stain. 
Regarding the reopened claim  2/claim  4, Ageas said a new cushion  cover was needed. It 
placed the order the next day and let Mrs B know. 
Two weeks later Mrs B called Ageas  to say shed received the cover  but it wasnt a good 
colour match. She complained that the claim had been going on for 7 months. Ageas asked 
her to send  back the cushion cover. Mrs B did so two weeks  later. 
Having done so Mrs B didnt hear further  from Ageas so she called it two weeks  after that. A 
further technicians  visit was booked for 11 July. On the day of the appointment the 
technician cancelled because  he was running  late. The following day Ageas called Mrs B to 
re-book the appointment. There was no reply so Ageas left a voice  message.
Ref: DRN22333532Two weeks later, having not heard from Mrs B, Ageas called her again.  This time an 
appointment was successfully arranged for 31 July 2017. The visit went ahead. Mrs B 
remained unhappy with the replacement cover  so the technician didnt fit it.  The technician 
left with the cover and an upholstery sample so it could be inspected by Ageas. 
Ten days  later Mrs B chased Ageas for an update.  On checking her claim notes Ageas 
noticed that the technician  had put the claim on the wrong status so the necessary action 
hadnt been picked up. Ageas  remedied  it and said it should now be processed by the 
correct department. Two days  later, Mrs B chased  Ageas  again.  She complained at the 
length of time the whole thing had taken. She was told that Ageas was still waiting for the 
technician to send  it the sample. Ageas immediately contacted the technician  who said he 
hadnt posted the sample yet. 
On 16 August the returned sample/cover was finally received. Ageas checked  the sample 
against the new cover and thought  it was a good  match. It called Mrs B on 18 August 2017 
and told her that the replacement cover was both correct  and within tolerance. 
Mrs B complained to Ageas. She said she was unhappy with the delays shed experienced. 
She said the new cover was such a poor match because of the delays. She said she wanted  
a new cover with less variation in colour. 
Ageas looked  into Mrs Bs complaint  but didnt think it done anything  wrong.  It said it had 
met its liability  under the policy and couldnt see that thered  been any significant  delays.  It 
said Mrs B had had the replacement  part since the end of May and couldve fitted it then. 
Unhappy with Ageass findings, Mrs B complained to this service.  Our investigator looked 
into her complaint and recommended  that it was upheld in part. He thought that Ageas had 
settled Mrs Bs claim fairly  and in line with the policy wording.  But he thought that Ageas had 
un-necessarily delayed  the claim and should  pay Mrs B compensation of £150  as a result. 
Mrs B accepted our investigators findings  but Ageas didnt. It said that the period of delay 
our investigator had identified  from 31 May 2017 to 31 July 2017   wasnt the result  of any 
failing on its part. Ageas asked for the complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with our investigator that this 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. Ill explain  why. 
Ive checked the policy  terms and conditions.  They say: Over time the colour, shade and 
appearance of your product is likely to change and therefore in the event new covers  are 
required we will supply parts based on the original appearance of your product. I can see 
from the file that Ageas  ordered the replacement cover in the same upholstery that the sofa 
was already covered in. Whilst I understand that Mrs B doesnt  think the match  is a close 
one, I cant reasonably require Ageas to do any more. It has repaired her sofa in line with the 
policy terms. 
Ageas has said that once  the replacement cover  is fitted and used it should blend in with the 
rest of the sofa over time. It has also offered for Mrs B to get back in touch  with it if, after 
six months, this hasnt happened. That seems reasonable to me. 
Ref: DRN22333533I know that Mrs B thinks that the passage of time caused by Ageass delays meant  the 
match was poorer than it couldve been. But from checking the claim notes   and as can be 
seen from the chronology  of events Ive set out above  Ageas asked for photographs of the 
failed repair  in October 2016 but they were never  received.  Mrs B says she posted them and 
I dont doubt that she did but their failure  to arrive isnt Ageas fault.  So I cant  reasonably say 
that Ageas caused an un-necessary delay to claim 2 between October 2016 and May 2017 
that made the match worse. 
And in any case,  any delay in responding to claim 2 didnt prejudice Mrs B because even if 
the seat cover had been replaced at the end of 2016 it would have needed  repairing again  
as a result  of claim 3. 
Ive set out a timeline of the claims in some detail  above. I hope  that both parties can 
therefore be reassured that Ive fully understood why the issues  took as long as they did to 
resolve. It is clear that there were delays   but these  werent  always the fault of Ageas. All 
insurance claims have a degree  of inconvenience  attached to them. When  deciding  whether 
to award compensation, this service looks  at what additional inconvenience or distress  a 
financial business has caused its policyholder above and beyond that which would  normally  
be associated with a claim. 
I think that Ageas is responsible for several delays  with this claim.  The first followed the 
cancellation of the technicians visit on 23 March  2017 as a result of him being unwell. Whilst 
I dont doubt the cancellation was unavoidable I can see that Mrs B asked that she be called  
back on the following  Monday (4 days later) so that a new appointment could be made. That 
call never  came. Mrs B waited a further week  now some 12 days  after the cancelled  visit  
and called Ageas herself to reschedule the appointment. I think  this put Mrs B to some 
inconvenience. Ageas  should  have contacted Mrs B much sooner to arrange its technicians 
cancelled visit. 
The second  delay occurred following the return by Mrs B of the replacement  cushion cover.  
Ageas received this on 15 June 2017  but took no action.  The next contact with Mrs B came 
on 27 June as a result of her calling it. During  the call another  technicians visit was arranged  
for 11 July so that the replacement cover  could be reassessed alongside the existing 
upholstery. But this appointment  was cancelled by the technician  because he was running 
late. Thats not Mrs Bs fault and it caused  her un-necessary inconvenience.
I can see the technician  asked Ageas to rebook the appointment and that it phoned Mrs B 
and left her a voice message on 12 July. I dont know why Mrs B didnt  return that call but I 
can see that Ageas didnt  try to call her again  for another  two weeks  on 27 June 2017. I cant  
see any reason why it should take so long to try and make contact with Mrs B. 
Following the technicians visit it seems he took over two weeks to return the cover  and the 
sample to Ageas for inspection. I think this is an avoidable delay. During that period, Mrs B 
called Ageas on three occasions to obtain an update on her claim. Ageas admitted to Mrs B 
in the first call that the technician had put her claim on the wrong status so the correct action 
hadnt been taken. Both the delay  in returning  the cover and the placing of the claim on the 
wrong status caused Mrs B additional,  avoidable inconvenience. 
For these delays I think its fair that Ageas  should  pay Mrs B compensation of £150
Ref: DRN22333534my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mrs B compensation of £150 for the inconvenience its delays in handling the claim 
caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2233353