K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about a term assurance  with critical illness  cover  policy  he took out 
following advice from HSBC UK Bank Plc. He has said the policy was mis-sold because  he 
was made  to feel that he had to take it to get the mortgage he was applying  for at the same 
time. He also feels he didnt need  the policy because he had sufficient cover  through  his 
employer.
background
Mr M took out the policy in November 2002.  The policy was a level term assurance which 
included critical illness cover. It was set up with a sum assured of £105,000  over a term of 
twenty five years. This matched the borrowing he was taking  out, which  was set up on a 
capital repayment  basis.
At the time of the sale Mr M was single (divorced)  with no dependants.  He was in full time 
employment.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be partly  upheld. 
She felt Mr M had a need for life and critical illness  protection. But she felt the policy  should 
have been set up on a decreasing basis rather  than a level basis.
HSBC didnt agree with the assessment. It felt that it was acknowledged in the fact find 
which was completed  with Mr M at the time of the sale that a decreasing term assurance 
policy would have been the most suitable type of protection but it was Mr M who had 
decided that he wanted to take the policy set up on a level term basis instead.
I issued my provisional findings in March 2019 where I set out why I disagreed with the initial 
assessment carried out by the investigator  and why I felt the complaint couldnt be upheld. 
And extract is below and forms part of this decision:
Overall, I think Mr M did have need for life and critical  illness  protection. He was taking a 
large level of borrowing and in my view it is always a good idea to protect such an amount of 
borrowing in the event of death. As well as this having critical illness cover is useful cover to 
have. The lump sum payment under the policy would be paid upon diagnosis of the specific 
illness and could be used  by Mr M, or anyone else he wanted, to help during a time when he 
may not be able to carry on working  or just to help to maintain  a standard of living.
So while I appreciate Mr M wasnt married or had any dependants  at that point  in time I still 
think he would have  found the policy useful.
I therefore need to next ascertain whether the type of the policy  he was sold was set up in 
the right way. Contrary to the investigators assessment it think  it was.
Normally when the borrowing is set up on a capital  repayment basis I would expect to see a 
decreasing term assurance policy to be the most suitable form of protection  if the only 
protection required was for the borrowing, as is the case  here.  However, in this case Mr M 
was sold a level term assurance policy.
This is slightly  unusual  however  because having looked at the fact find which  was completed  
at the time of the sale along with Mr M I can see that it was documented that the adviser did 
Ref: DRN20266802mention that decreasing term assurance policy  was the most suitable protection for the type 
of mortgage Mr M was taking out. But, it was also documented that Mr M prefer[ed] the idea 
of level cover and because the policy offers better  value for money..and  will offer the 
benefit of additional  protection  for you [Mr M] and family.
Given this, it is very hard for me to conclude anything other than Mr M made the decision to 
take out the policy on a level basis. HSBC clearly advised that a decreasing policy  was the 
more suitable  type of cover but as illustrated above  it really  does seem that Mr M wanted the 
level policy. I therefore cant conclude  that HSBC did anything  wrong. It seems to me it 
followed Mr Ms wishes and set the policy up as he requested on a level term basis. I cant 
see what else HSBC could have  done.
I know Mr M has said that he was sold the policy on the basis of that he had to take it to get 
the borrowing  he was applying for. While I appreciate this, I obviously wasnt at the sales 
meeting so I cant say for certain what was discussed and what  Mr M was told. All I can do is 
make my decision  based on the information presented to me. In light of this I have seen  
nothing to support Mr Ms claim that he was told he had to take the policy. And I also know  
that the policy  was not a condition of the lending he was applying for. So I cant  uphold
Mr Ms complaint on this point.
Mr M has said that he didnt need  the cover because he has sufficient cover through  his 
employer. While this may have been the case, this type of cover  wouldnt be seen as 
suitable to protect  the borrowing Mr M needed protecting.  Its unlikely the amount paid out 
under his employer  cover  would have been of the correct level to make the payment had 
Mr M passed away during  the term of the mortgage. Also employer  benefits  only exist while  
one is in that job. And there is no guarantee that anyone will remain  in the same job for the 
length of the borrowing.
Overall, the policy  sold to Mr M was a deviation from what I would expect to see. However  
the deviation wasnt so extreme to be wholly unsuitable. Also, given the detailed notes in the 
point of sale documentation; I think HSBC made  Mr M fully aware of what  the most suitable 
policy was for him and made  him aware of the risks of not taking this but that it was Mr M 
who decided  to take something different.
HSBC accepted my provisional findings  but didnt provide any further  comments.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  findings.  He stated he was unhappy  that the provisional 
decision differed  from the initial outcome reached  by the investigator. He also stated that he 
originally went to the bank for a mortgage and then had to go back  to request a larger 
amount. This was agreed but the bank  advised  him to take the life protection cover  as well 
as a critical illness policy. He said money  was a tight then and he didnt want to pay for the 
policy. He felt the bank was happier  to grant the higher  mortgage  after he agreed to take the 
extra policies which he thinks were unnecessary but he did what the bank advised.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not persuaded to 
depart from those findings.
Ref: DRN20266803I appreciate Mr M is unhappy that my provisional  decision  is different to the outcome 
reached by the investigator but there is always the potential  for this to happen  when a case 
is reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision.  This is part of the process of this service.
Despite what he has said about feeling  that the bank was happier to lend him a higher 
amount after he agreed  to take the policies, there  is just no evidence to allow me to confirm 
this with any certainty. And I know the policy wasnt a condition  of the borrowing he was 
taking. So I cant uphold  the complaint on this basis.
As already mentioned  in my provisional  findings,  I do think  the policy was of use to Mr M. He 
was taking on a large  amount of borrowing and it was a prudent  course of action to have this 
amount protected, especially in the event of diagnosis of a critical illness.
I am also satisfied that while a decreasing  term assurance policy would  have been  the most  
suitable for the type borrowing Mr M had, it was clearly detailed in the documentation 
completed at the time of the sale why a level term assurance policy  was taken  out instead. 
And I am satisfied this was at the request of Mr M rather than HSBC.
Overall therefore, I think Mr M had a need for the life and critical illness policy  he took out in 
2002 and I think  it was Mr M who requested the policy be set up on a level term basis.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026680