K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they couldnt  transfer,  or port, their mortgage  to a new house, 
because Barclays Bank UK PLC changed its policy. As a result, they had to pay an early 
repayment charge  (ERC).
background
In early 2017, Mr and Mrs R switched their existing  Barclays  mortgage onto a two-year  fixed  
interest rate. An ERC was payable if the mortgage were repaid before May 2019.  Mr and 
Mrs R say they knew they would be selling their home and moving before too long. So they 
discussed porting  the mortgage  with Barclays  before  agreeing to the fixed  rate. Barclays  told 
them they would have 180 days after settling the mortgage to port it to a new property and 
receive a refund of any ERC  subject to its other usual criteria.
In May 2018, a couple of weeks  before contracts were due to be exchanged on the sale of 
the mortgaged  property, Mr R contacted  Barclays. He said he wanted to port the mortgage 
and he expected to have  up to 180 days to do so. Barclays  told him its policy had changed, 
and it would only allow up to 90 days to port, from the date the mortgage was repaid.
Mr R was unhappy with this. He felt 90 days wouldnt be long enough to find a new property. 
The mortgaged property  was sold in late June 2018, and Mr and Mrs R paid an ERC of 
around £12,000. They complained to Barclays.
Barclays said porting  was subject to customers  meeting  its lending  criteria, and those criteria 
can change at any time. It wouldnt refund the ERC, but it offered £250 compensation.
Our investigator initially recommended that Barclays refund the ERC, and pay interest on the 
refund. He took that view because he thought Barclays should have told Mr and Mrs R about 
the change in its policy. 
Barclays didnt accept  that recommendation. It said its policy about porting is one of its 
lending criteria; it wasnt a term of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. It also pointed to Mr and Mrs 
Rs mortgage offer, which said it could change its lending  criteria without notice.  
The investigator reconsidered the complaint and accepted what  Barclays  had said.  He also 
looked at whether Barclays recommendation that Mr and Mrs R take a fixed rate in 2017 
was appropriate,  given that they had told Barclays they expected to move  house  within  the 
fixed-rate period. He thought it might not have been  but he found that the cost to Mr and 
Mrs R of paying interest on their mortgage at Barclays standard variable rate would have 
outweighed the interest  and ERC they had paid on the fixed rate. He concluded that they 
hadnt lost out by taking  the fixed rate, so he didnt  propose that Barclays  pay any 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs R still felt theyd been  treated unfairly.  Mr R said Barclays had never made  it 
clear that its porting  window could change, and a staff member  had told him it had reduced 
the window to prevent customers from porting. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22541242Mr and Mrs R have paid a substantial  ERC,  so I can certainly  see why theyre unhappy at 
not getting a refund. Theres no dispute  that Mr R asked about porting before he and Mrs R 
took the fixed rate. It was important because  they expected to be moving house. I think 
Barclays gave them the right information  at the time, as well as when Mr R enquired about 
porting later in 2017, because it has said its policy at that time did allow  180 days to port.
Barclays changed that policy in late 2017   some time after Mr and Mrs R had signed up to 
the fixed interest rate. It hasnt told us why it made  the change, but it doesnt  have to. It was 
entitled to change its policy, and it didnt have  to tell Mr and Mrs R when it did so.
I dont think the discussions Mr R had with Barclays amounted to an undertaking or 
guarantee that he would  always have up to 180 days to port. The mortgage  offer said 
Barclays could change  its lending criteria  from time to time without notice. This was set out 
under a subheading  in bold type: What happens  if you move  house?, and I think it was 
clear.
Barclays recommended  Mr and Mrs R take the two-year fixed rate in 2017, even though  it 
knew they planned to move  during  that two-year period. So Ive also considered  the 
suitability of that recommendation.
The documents Barclays has provided  are limited. But they do indicate that Mr and Mrs R 
wanted to keep their monthly mortgage payments as low as possible. As the investigator 
observed, had their mortgage been on Barclays standard  variable rate instead of the 1.32%  
fixed rate they got, they would have paid more in interest over the time they kept the 
mortgage than the combined cost of the interest  they did pay and the ERC. None of 
Barclays fixed-rate mortgages  came without an ERC, and the only tracker rate in its range 
without an ERC and for which  Mr and Mrs R may have been  eligible had a rate of more than 
double the 1.32% they got.  
Besides that, the fixed rate Mr and Mrs R took was portable. It wasnt  a given in 2017  that 
Barclays would change  its policy or that any changes would prevent them from porting  
although I recognise that they were re-locating to a different part of the country and this 
could well have made finding and buying a new property more difficult. 
It ultimately took a few months longer than 180 days from the sale of the old property for Mr 
and Mrs R to buy a new one. I can understand why they waited for a time in the hope  of a 
change in Barclays position, and Im sorry to read of Mr Rs ill health.  Nonetheless,  I think 
its far from certain that they would  have found  a new property and been in a position to port 
their mortgage within  the original 180-day window. 
In all the circumstances, I find I cant fairly  require  Barclays  to refund all or part of the ERC. 
The ERC and the circumstances  in which it was payable were set out in the mortgage  
contract, and Im satisfied that it was clear. Barclays was entitled to change  its porting 
criteria; that was also provided for in the contract, and Barclays  didnt have to tell Mr and Mrs 
R when it made the change. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I dont  require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay more than it has already  offered.  I leave it to Mr and Mrs R to 
decide whether,  on reflection, they wish to accept its offer to pay them £250.
Ref: DRN22541243Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2254124