K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs R says NewDay Ltd, trading at the time as Peoples Bank (NewDay),  mis-sold  
her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received  any response from NewDay. Mrs R has told us she is unhappy with the 
outcome but hasnt  provided any further information  or evidence for me to consider. In the 
circumstances, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
NewDay has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NewDay should  also pay back to Mrs R any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
NewDay should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs R the difference  
between what Mrs R owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NewDay  should also pay Mrs R 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so NewDay Ltd does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But NewDay Ltd does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28115812
Ref: DRN28115813copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs R says NewDay Ltd, trading at the time as Peoples Bank (NewDay),  mis-sold  
her the PPI.
background
Mrs R made  an application for a credit card in 1996.  At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint as I dont think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill 
explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
Mrs R has said she was never  asked if she wanted to take out the PPI and it was added  
automatically. She told us she wasnt given  the opportunity to refuse the cover.  But I think  
NewDay made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. NewDay no longer has a 
copy of the actual application form completed  by Mrs R at the time of the sale  which isnt 
surprising considering this took place over 21 years  ago. But it has provided a sample 
application from around the time which it says would  have been the same as the one 
completed by Mrs R. On this form there  is section  about PPI and there are boxes to tick to 
accept or decline to take out the cover. Without any evidence to persuade  me otherwise, I 
think its likely this form would be the same or similar to the one Mrs R completed at the time 
of the sale. And I think its likely that Mrs R ticked the yes box to confirm  she wanted the 
cover.
Ive noted that Mrs R has said she wasnt given an option to refuse the cover but as Mrs R 
was making an application  for additional  credit I think she would have read through  the form 
before signing  it. And when she saw that there  was an option  to decline to take out the PPI, 
I think she would have  queried this with NewDay at the time.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think NewDay  made it clear the policy  
was optional and that Mrs R agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt 
want it.
NewDay didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide  for 
herself if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN28115814Its possible the information NewDay  gave  Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Which means NewDay doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But NewDay will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
NewDay got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because  NewDay  didnt  
tell Mrs R, that was unfair.
To put that right, NewDay has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said - including  what she has said about  not 
needing the policy as she would receive  six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay 
from her employer if she was unable to work  due to accident or sickness. But this policy 
would have paid out for 12 months which would be in addition  to her sick pay, and potentially 
for longer than she would  receive  full pay. And it would also pay out for the same length of 
time if she was to lose her job. As she didnt have any other  means with which  to make  her 
repayments I think this policy could have provided her with a useful benefit.
Mrs R also commented on the policy covering  disability and said she wouldnt be able to 
claim for sickness  unless  she became disabled or was under the supervision of a doctor. But 
having checked the policy terms and conditions, the word disability is defined as a medical 
condition certified  by your doctor which stops you from doing  your job. As this policy would 
only provide cover for claims  where the individual had been off work  for more than 30 days, I 
think it is reasonable to expect that a doctor  would have been consulted. So these points 
dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
NewDay has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NewDay should  also pay back to Mrs R any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
NewDay should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs R the difference  
between what Mrs R owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NewDay  should also pay Mrs R 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN28115815my provisional decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so NewDay Ltd does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But NewDay Ltd does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN2811581