K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms H complain  that Blackadders (formerly trading  as Select  Mortgages)  sold them an 
interest only mortgage when they wanted  a repayment mortgage.
background
Mr and Ms H were  looking to take out a mortgage on a property that they wanted  to buy.
In September  2005, Blackadders sent them  an email recommending  a capital and interest 
repayment mortgage on a 2 year fixed rate basis with initial monthly  payments of around 
£500. However, Mr and Ms H then received  a mortgage offer dated  21 October 2005 which 
said that the initial monthly payments  for a capital  repayment mortgage would be around 
£760.
Mr and Ms H subsequently received a further  mortgage offer dated  4 November 2005. This 
provided that the initial monthly payments on an interest only mortgage  on a 2 year fixed  rate 
basis would  be around £500.
The mortgage completed in December 2005  on an interest only basis.
Blackadders accepted that it had made  an error in quoting an interest only monthly  figure 
initially. And it wrote to Mr and Ms H in February  2006 and sent them a cheque  for £300. It 
also said it would carry out a mortgage  review  in two years  time if required free of charge.
In June 2007 Mr and Ms H complained to Blackadders about the mortgage being  interest  
only. But Blackadders said its mistake had been  corrected before Mr and Ms H committed  to 
the mortgage, and that it had already compensated them. It didnt agree that they had 
suffered a financial loss, as they hadnt paid the additional £260 per month. So although their 
mortgage balance  hadnt reduced they had the money in their bank account.
Mr and Ms H complained again in 2008 when the 2 year fixed rate period came  to an end. 
They believed that they would have  repaid  approximately £6,000  towards their mortgage  if it 
had been on capital and interest repayment,  and asked Blackadders  to pay them half that 
amount to settle.  Blackadders didnt agree, but offered  them a further £200 compensation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said, in summary:
Blackadders had accepted that it had made  a mistake in its email  to Mr and Ms H in 
September 2005 recommending  a capital repayment mortgage when in fact the 
figures it quoted  were  for an interest only mortgage. But it had spoken  to Mr and 
Ms H at the beginning  of November 2005  to try and put things right. She didnt have 
a copy of the call or a record of the conversation that took place. But she felt it likely 
that Blackadders  would have confirmed the monthly  payment for a capital repayment 
mortgage and discussed whether that would be affordable to them.  Ms H had 
subsequently sent Blackadders an email  confirming that they agreed that the 
mortgage should proceed on an interest  only basis with the lower payments;
Ms H had provided evidence that she and Mr H had signed the declaration for the 
mortgage offer on a capital repayment basis. However, the investigator felt that this 
had been signed  in error because the declaration was signed on 3 November 2005 
which was two days after they agreed  to proceed with the mortgage on an interest 
only basis;
Ref: DRN25019902Following the conversation with Mr and Ms H, Blackadders asked the lender to issue  
an interest only mortgage offer. This was dated  4 November 2005. Mr and Ms H said 
that they were  confused and raised this with Blackadders but the issue didnt get 
resolved. And they said that they had agreed  to proceed with the interest only 
mortgage because  they didnt want to lose the property. But our investigator felt that 
they shouldnt  have agreed  to the interest only mortgage if they felt strongly that they 
wanted a capital repayment mortgage;
Ms H had said that they would have been  able to afford the additional £260 for the 
capital repayment  mortgage. The investigator didnt have a copy  of the affordability 
assessment that would  have  been carried out at the time. But shed taken account of 
the fact that Mr and Ms H could have made overpayments of up to 10% in the first 
two years without incurring penalties. And while she accepted  that circumstances 
had meant that this hadnt happened, the option  to overpay had been available to 
them;
Blackadders had paid Mr and Ms H £300 and offered them  a further  £200  for the 
error it had made, and she felt this was fair and reasonable.  
Ms H doesnt agree  with our investigators conclusions,  and so the complaint  has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has raised a number of issues. Ive carefully  considered everything she has to say but 
have concentrated  my decision  on those issues which I find to be central  to her complaint.
Due to the passage of time there  is some  evidence that Blackadders has not been  able to 
supply. This doesnt  surprise me, given that the advice took place fifteen years ago. Where 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Blackadders has accepted that it made an error in its initial email to Mr and Ms H. And the 
evidence Ive seen  suggests that Blackadders spoke to Mr and Ms H at the beginning of 
November 2005  to discuss the situation. Ive also seen a copy  of an email that Ms H sent 
back to Blackadders confirming that they agreed that the mortgage  should proceed on an 
interest only basis with lower payments. 
Ms H says that they signed the paperwork for the repayment mortgage, and has pointed out 
that Blackadders  has been unable to supply signed paperwork for the interest only 
mortgage. But, having considered all the evidence carefully, Im satisfied from the email trail 
that Mr and Ms H did intend to enter  into the interest only mortgage,  and were  aware that 
they were doing  so.
I appreciate that Ms H says that they only proceeded  with the mortgage because they didnt 
want to lose the property that they were buying and they felt there was no time to make  
changes. But although I understand the point shes making I remain persuaded that they 
were aware at the time that they were  entering  into an interest only mortgage.
Ref: DRN25019903Ms H also says that they would have been able to afford an additional  £260  per month for 
the capital repayment mortgage. But although  Ive considered  what  she has to say this 
doesnt change  my decision. I say this as Mr and Ms H were  able, under the terms of the 
mortgage, to make  overpayments up to 10% of the amount outstanding on the mortgage  
each year without penalty. So if they had wished they would have been able to pay the 
additional £260 a month to the mortgage  and reduce the amount of their borrowing. 
It appears that Mr and Ms H didnt, in fact, make  overpayments to the mortgage. But as a 
result, they had the benefit of the additional £260  a month in their bank account. 
I do appreciate that Mr and Ms H were going through particularly difficult circumstances at 
the relevant time, and they have my sympathy. But this doesnt change  the fact that they had 
the benefit of the monies that would otherwise have been paid to the mortgage. So I dont 
agree that they have suffered any financial loss.
Blackadders paid Mr and Ms H £300, and offered a further £200 for its mistake. I find this to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont require Blackadders to do anything  
further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2501990