K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) is reporting 
arrears on her credit file incorrectly when she is in an arrangement  to pay. She complains 
that she was never told about the impact  of entering  into the arrangement.
background
Miss W took a loan for £400 from Satsuma in August 2016. It was repayable  in 52 weekly 
instalments of £15.31. Miss W fell into difficulties repaying the monthly instalments as they 
became due in around January 2017 and entered into a repayment plan for £1 per week. 
This broke down and a further arrangement for £20 was set up in May 2017.
 
Miss W explains that when she checked her credit file she noticed  that Satsuma was 
reporting that she was in arrears. Miss W called Satsuma in July 2017 to query this and was 
told that the credit file would take some  time to be updated. Miss W called again in 
November 2017  to raise  a complaint.  Satsuma  sent its final response  in January 2018 and 
apologised for the time taken to deal with the complaint.  Miss W was advised in the letter  
that the arrears  were  correctly reported but the correct  situation regarding the arrangement 
to pay was not reported and this was rectified.
Miss W is still unhappy about the arrears being reported in this way. She says it suggests  
that she isnt up to date with the arrangement to pay and this is having a detrimental effect 
on her ability  to get a mortgage. She says that she wasnt told about  this at the time, and if 
she had been  she would  have borrowed money  to pay off the debt. Miss W says this is 
unfair.
Miss Ws complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think that 
Satsuma had done anything wrong by reporting the arrears because Miss Ws account was 
in fact in arrears as she had not been making contractual  repayments  as they became due. 
Although Miss W was paying  a reduced  amount under  the agreed arrangement the account 
was still in arrears as this was less than the amount  required. She thought it was reasonable 
for the arrears to be reported  on the credit file alongside the arrangement  to pay.
Miss W didnt agree  with that assessment. She said that it wasnt  fair that the arrears were 
being recorded in this way and that other lenders were not doing this. She didnt agree that 
she had been  treated  fairly and said she was misled about the impact of the arrangement.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of all the points that have been made by 
Miss W and by Satsuma. I have read all Miss Ws emails to this service and the notes of her 
contact with Satsuma.  
Ref: DRN21843622At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I dont think there is any dispute here that Miss W borrowed money  from Satsuma and was 
unable to repay that loan when it was due. It appears that Miss W fell into difficulties in 
around January  2017.
 
I can see that Miss W offered  a payment arrangement of £1 per week in January 2017.  I 
understand that she was in difficulty and wasnt able to repay the full £15.31 per week. I 
think it is unlikely that Miss W would have been  able to repay the loan in full or that she 
would have been able to borrow money  from elsewhere to bring the account up to date. 
Miss W set up a further arrangement for £20 per month in May 2017 and she has made all 
the repayments under that arrangement. But this is less than she was required  to pay and 
there are arrears  on the account.  
I can understand why Miss W thinks that reporting the arrears is unfair and why it looks  more  
damaging on her credit file. But although  I sympathise I cant  say that what Satsuma has 
done here is wrong or unfair. Satsuma is correctly reporting the arrears and the arrangement  
to pay which  accurately reflects the situation. I cant ask it to do any more.  
There were clearly problems with Satsuma reporting  all of the information and explaining the 
situation to Miss W in a timely way. I can understand how Miss W might have thought that 
the arrears were an error  following her call to Satsuma in July 2017 when she was told the 
credit file would  take time to update. Satsuma has paid Miss W £75 in recognition of these 
failures and so I cant ask it to do anything further.
Miss W was aware that entering into a repayment  arrangement would have an effect  on her 
credit file. Given her financial position I dont  think it is likely that she would have  been  able 
to pay off the loan.  Although other lenders have reported arrangements to pay differently, it 
doesnt follow that Satsuma is wrong. I cant say that Miss W was misled or that Satsuma 
treated her unfairly given her circumstances.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss W and I dont doubt that she had 
responsibly taken  steps to deal with her debts.  But I consider that Satsuma provided her with 
enough information to understand that the arrangement  would impact  on her credit file, and 
that the information that it reported  fairly  reflects her failure to repay her borrowing when it 
was due and the arrangement to pay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Ref: DRN21843623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2184362