K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited  (Starling) gave poor customer service then
closed his bank  account.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I did not intend to uphold  Mr As complaint, and 
award him more than the £50 compensation Starling  had offered him. I invited both parties  to 
send any additional  evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Starling accepted my provisional decision, but Mr A didnt reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr A nor Starling  submitted any further arguments for me to consider. So I see no 
reason to change  my conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons outlined here and in my provisional decision is that 
Starling Bank Limited must pay Mr A, to the extent it hasnt already done so, £50 in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26328542Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank  Limited (Starling) gave poor customer  service then closed his 
bank account.
background
Mr A called Starling in August 2018 to dispute two transactions on his current  account. He was told 
the request would be passed to the banks Disputes  team.  Mr A says that Starling promised hed be 
called back by a manager the same day, but that didnt happen. Mr A says he was also told the two 
transactions would be refunded to his account by 4 September, but they werent.
On 6 September one of the two disputed transactions was refunded  to Mr As account.  Starling had 
missed the other transaction but  after hed told them theyd missed  it - it was refunded to his 
account the next day. Starling says it refunded Mr A for both transactions as a goodwill gesture even 
though it didnt have  enough  evidence to make a chargeback claim.
Mr A had already raised a complaint with Starling  about  how the bank handled his original  request. 
Mr A escalated his complaint  and over the next few days  there was extensive back and forth between 
Mr A and Starling by phone and email. Starling sent Mr A a final response letter  that partially upheld 
his complaint about its customer service and paid him £50 compensation. However  the letter  also said 
that because of the frequency and nature of his contact about this issue, it was giving  Mr A 7 days 
notice that his account was being closed.
Mr A brought  his complaint  to our service. He wants Starling to keep his account  open and to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset he experienced,  as well as the time hes spent contacting 
Starling. An adjudicator  considered Mr As complaint and thought  Starling should  pay Mr A a further 
£50 compensation for the customer service he received. Starling disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A first contacted Starling late on the afternoon  of Friday 31 August. So 3 September  was the next 
full working day. I can see from the evidence that Starling told Mr A that its Disputes team  doesnt 
work over the weekend,  which is a business decision its entitled to make.  So although I dont doubt  
Mr A thinks Starling  didnt do enough here and wanted a refund by 4 September, Im satisfied Starling 
gave him a realistic expectation of how and when itd be dealing with his claim.
Starling explained on that call that its policy  is to investigate disputed transactions  before refunding 
customers. Im aware that some banks immediately  refund customers when  they make a chargeback 
claim, then reverse  the refund later if its unsuccessful. But this isnt something that Starling  offers in 
its terms and conditions  or promised to Mr A here. So I dont  think it was unfair to deal with Mr As 
chargeback claim in this way.
I also see from the evidence that Starling  passed the two claims to its Disputes department  promptly 
when he called and refunded him within  four business days.  So although there were  some service 
shortfalls that Ill mention  below, Im satisfied that the bank dealt with his claims  within a reasonable  
timescale.
Ref: DRN26328543Im not persuaded  that Starling misled Mr A, or breached its terms and conditions  when it processed 
his chargeback claims and I think it dealt with them promptly. It follows  that I dont uphold this aspect 
of Mr As complaint. I understand that he wanted Starling to handle his claims differently,  but I dont 
find any reason to say it made an error by dealing with his chargeback claims in the way it did here.
I agree that Starling couldve done some things differently though.  Mr A didnt get a manager call back  
on 31 August  as hed wanted  although from the evidence Im not convinced he was promised  one. 
But he was given confusing information  about  Starlings  call back  policy. And the second chargeback 
claim was overlooked, so Mr A had to tell Starling  and wait another day for that refund. I think its fair 
that Starling compensates  Mr A for the distress and inconvenience this caused him.
Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. Im satisfied 
that the service issues didnt  change the outcome of Mr As chargeback claims or delay them  
significantly. I can see that Starling  escalated his complaint to senior management and took steps  to 
resolve it promptly. And I dont think Starling needs to compensate Mr A for the time he spent  
emailing and calling the bank over the following days, because hed been assured the complaint and 
his original  issue were  being dealt  with.
Taking everything into consideration, I think Starlings  offer of £50 compensation  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I know our adjudicator felt an additional £50 was fair here, but I 
dont think itd be fair for me to tell Starling to pay that here for the reasons  above.  I know Mr A will be 
disappointed but based on what Ive seen so far, I wont be asking  Starling to do anything more on 
this aspect of his complaint.
Ive considered the circumstances of Mr As account  being  closed. I understand Mr As very
disappointed by Starlings decision and thinks that if the bank had dealt with his original complaint 
better, he wouldnt have needed to contact it as much as he did. But Starling says that the number  of 
emails and calls from Mr A made his account difficult to manage. For example,  it needed to set up a 
separate secure email  account to deal with the number  of emails he sent to the Head of Operations  
over a hundred  emails in one particular day. 
Starlings current account  terms  and conditions  that Mr A wouldve accepted when  he opened his 
account - say that it can close accounts immediately  if your behaviour  towards  our staff makes it 
difficult for us to deal with you (for example, you are threatening  or abusive towards  our staff). 
Starling says that Mr As approach made him difficult to deal with, so it was entitled to give him notice 
to close  his account.
Just as customers are entitled to decide which  businesses to use, businesses are entitled to decide  
who they offer services and accounts to. Its not for this service to tell Starling who it should, or 
shouldnt continue to offer services to. I understand that Mr A doesnt agree he was difficult. But Im 
satisfied that Starling  was entitled to make this decision here and acted within the terms and 
conditions when it closed  his account.
A decision like this is always  a subjective one, but Im satisfied that Starling is entitled  to
make this decision  in the way it did. And I think its explanation  that the amount of contact
for a single customer was difficult  to manage  is reasonable.  The terms and conditions
explain what  Starling will do in this situation and it did that here. It wrote to Mr A to tell him its
decision and gave him notice to make  other  arrangements.
Because Im satisfied that Starling acted within  the terms and conditions  of Mr As account,
and gave him reasonable  notice  that his account  would be closed, I dont think  it needs to do
anything more here either.
Ref: DRN26328544my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional  decision is that I do not intend to uphold
Mr As complaint.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632854