K820x#14complaint
Mrs J instructed The Money Recovery  Centre  Ltd, trading as Fast PPI (MRC),  to make a 
claim for mis-sold PPI on her behalf. Shes complained that MRC are charging her a £250 
cancellation fee.
background
Mrs J initially instructed  MRC to act for her in January 2017. In January 2018  PPI provider H 
told MRC  that Mrs J had been sold PPI. Mrs J then completed a PPI questionnaire with MRC  
and they submitted the claim for her. In March 2018 PPI provider H asked that Mrs J sign a 
new Letter of Authority (LOA),  as the old one was no longer valid. Mrs J didnt do this and, 
in June 2018, she told MRC that she considered the matter now closed. MRC charged Mrs J 
a £250 cancellation fee and, when this wasnt paid,  took legal action to recover  this.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
Our investigator found MRC had provided  a reasonable service. He felt that, in instructing 
MRC, Mrs J had agreed to their terms and conditions  - which include the right for MRC to 
charge cancellation costs.  Because Mrs J stopped co-operating with the company, he felt it 
was reasonable  that MRC  considered this to be cancellation and charged  for the work theyd 
done. Because of this, he didnt think MRC  should  do anything.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigator. She says that MRC ran out of time in terms of the 
claim, and didnt do the work they were supposed  to do. Because of this she doesnt think 
she should pay them £250.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that Mrs J initially instructed MRC to act for her in January 2017 and, in January 
2018, PPI provider H confirmed Mrs J had had PPI. Ive listened to the call that Mrs J had 
with MRC on 24 January  2018. In this call Mrs J agreed for MRC to continue to act for her, at 
a reduced success fee, and completed a PPI questionnaire for the claim with PPI provider H. 
MRC then prepared  and submitted the claim to PPI provider H.
Because Mrs J had originally signed the LOA in January 2017, PPI provider H asked that 
she sign a new one. But Mrs J wouldnt do this, which  meant MRC werent able to finish  the 
work on the claim for her. I cant say that MRC did anything wrong by considering  Mrs Js 
refusal to sign the LOA PPI provider H had asked for to be her cancelling their services.
I dont think MRC ran out of time on this claim.  They didnt know  Mrs J had PPI until January 
2018, and they submitted the claim to PPI provider H shortly  after this. The LOA originally  
signed by Mrs J doesnt have an expiry date on it, so it shouldnt have gone  out of date. I 
cant say MRC did anything wrong  because PPI provider H decided they needed a new 
LOA, or because  they couldnt complete the claim because Mrs J didnt sign the new LOA.
Ref: DRN25352432Ive also seen the terms and conditions Mrs J agreed to, and these allowed MRC to charge 
cancellation fees reasonable  and proportionate  to the work  done and costs incurred. These 
terms also give examples  of how the charges  could  be calculated  - saying that incoming or 
outgoings calls or letters  will be charged at £25 each, and automated communications  such 
as emails and text messages will be charged  at £10 each. 
The case  notes and other evidence provided by MRC indicate  they initially  contacted PPI 
provider H to establish if Mrs J had ever been  sold PPI. When  it was confirmed she had, 
they completed a PPI questionnaire with her then prepared and submitted the claim. They  
also wrote  to her on at least three occasions about the new LOA, and tried to call her about 
this as well. Based on the work done,  I agree that MRC charging  Mrs J £250 is reasonable 
as this is in line with the cancellation costs detailed in the terms and conditions.
Because MRC are entitled to charge  Mrs J for the work they did on her claim, theyre also 
entitled to take reasonable  steps to chase for this payment. This includes taking legal action.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Js complaint about MRC Financial 
Management Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535243