K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains a fixed sum loan agreement financed by Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc was 
unaffordable and misrepresented. She wants to end the agreement. She also says the 
vehicle supplied was misrepresented  and/or unfit for purpose  and wants  to reject  it. Mrs B is 
represented by her son, A. 
background
A tells us that in July 2018 the vehicle his mother was driving  broke down and  was towed to 
a garage business  Ill refer to as D. After repairs had been done - under warranty  - she went 
to collect the car. 
But whilst there he says she was persuaded to part-exchange the repaired car for another 
vehicle which was to be financed through the disputed agreement.  He says she wasnt told 
about the higher charges  and fees or that other  types of loan might  be more  suitable. And 
that due to the garage being about  to close she wasnt able to test drive the vehicle. So 
shed signed the agreement without  realising shed been sold a vehicle with manual 
transmission. A says his mother  needs  to use an automatic vehicle due to health issues. He 
says the loan was unaffordable  as the repayments amounted to just under 50% of her 
monthly income.
Hitachi told us Mrs B acquired the vehicle in July 2018. It said there  had been an existing 
finance agreement  on which  about £2,348 had been outstanding and this had been added  to 
the new agreement. It said in October  Mrs B had asked about a settlement figure.  But in 
November she had told Hitachi  shed  obtained a new vehicle and wouldnt be able to afford  
the finance payments on both vehicles. Hitachi says it made its lending decision on the basis 
of affordability checks it had carried out together with information provided  by Mrs B.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said Hitachi had 
carried out checks and he didnt think there  was any reason for it to decline the credit.  He 
said payments had been met and new finance  had been secured elsewhere for the second 
vehicle. And this would  indicate a second lender had also found  Mrs B was a suitable 
recipient of credit. He noted  the Hitachi loan had included previous finance which showed 
Mrs B had successfully applied for credit earlier. He did not think there was anything  
unreasonable in Hitachi approving this loan.
A replied on behalf of his mother and said he still felt the loan was mis-sold.  And that it was 
for a five year period  which he didnt think was suitable at her age.
As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make 
the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs B has been caused  such upset and disappointment at whats happened. 
And that she ended  up with a vehicle that was apparently unsuitable for her needs.
Ref: DRN21763422As the complaint contains several separate issues Ill explain in detail how we approach 
each matter and Ill explain my reasons for the conclusions Ive reached.
Where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I decide  what is the most likely 
explanation for whats happened.
Ill deal first with the circumstances  of the loan relating to the acquisition of a vehicle in July 
2018. Ive been told that this arose after Mrs Bs vehicle broke down and had to be repaired. 
Its suggested she was pressurised  into exchanging  the vehicle and taking out a new finance  
agreement for a replacement vehicle. And that the replacement vehicle was unsuitable as it 
was a manual  transmission and not an automatic vehicle. 
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant legislation here 
includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This potentially  gives consumers - 
who use certain types of credit to acquire goods and/or services - additional protection  if 
things go wrong.
In summary,  this legislation says where  theres been  a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  - in this case D - a consumer has a like claim 
against the provider of finance - in this case Hitachi.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to act upon it. 
And its probable  a breach  of contract would  occur if goods were  sold which were not fit for 
purpose.
Theres no independent evidence as to what took place on the day of the disputed loan. But 
I understand Mrs B was accompanied by Mr B - her husband. Im not sure if he took a direct 
part in the discussions. But it might reasonably be expected he would have raised concerns 
if he thought anything untoward had occurred.
At face value it might  seem strange that Mrs B decided to exchange vehicles on that 
occasion as her own vehicle had just been repaired. Or why she changed from an automatic 
vehicle to a manual transmission.  But thats a long way from saying  there was a 
misrepresentation of either the vehicle  or the finance agreement. Ive seen no persuasive  
evidence that Mrs B was supplied  with a vehicle other than that to which she agreed.
The difference between an automatic vehicle and a manual transmission vehicle would be 
apparent on the most cursory of inspections.  And would become obvious upon driving the 
vehicle. So its not apparent why immediate objection was not raised  either at the time of the 
transaction or when the vehicle was collected, if this was different. 
The finance  agreement appears to bear Mrs Bs signature. Its at the end of the section 
containing the relevant details of the cost of the vehicle and finance together  with the 
monthly payments  required. And it says immediately above the signature, sign  it only if you 
wish to be legally bound  by its terms.
Ref: DRN21763423Based on the evidence  Ive seen it wasnt until November 2018 that complaint was made 
about these issues.  Id have expected them to be raised much sooner. Ive taken into 
account that Ive been told Mrs B can get confused  about financial matters and was 
distressed about  what happened.  But that does not fully explain the delay as other  family  
members, including  her representative, can reasonably be expected to have been  aware  of 
the situation.
And whilst Ive seen evidence of some  medical issues  which affect Mrs B, Ive not been 
supplied with anything  which  shows  she is unable  to use a manual  transmission  vehicle as 
opposed to this being a preferred  option.  Nor is there any evidence the supplier of the 
vehicle was made aware of any such limitation.
In all the circumstances it would not be fair and reasonable to conclude there had been a 
misrepresentation about either the vehicle or the finance agreement.
Dealing with the issue of affordability  - again  I must emphasise that the age of a borrower is 
not of itself sufficient  reason to decline a loan. Its perfectly reasonable, provided payments 
are sustainable, for a lender to offer credit to anyone - of any age - within the lending  criteria 
the business chooses to apply. Indeed to discriminate on age grounds would potentially 
leave a business liable to legal challenge.
Prior to providing credit, a lender  is required to make checks  which are sufficient and 
proportionate having regard to a number of issues including - but not limited to - the amount 
of the loan and the size of monthly repayments.  Hitachi did this and it also relied on 
information provided by Mrs B. The agreement shows Mrs B declared a gross income of 
£11,250 per year. That equates to over £900 per month. The required payments were  a little 
more than £162 per month. So its not immediately  obvious as to why they would not be 
affordable.
Ive been told Mrs B had an income of below £350  per month - and this is supported  by bank 
statements from her personal  account. But this does  not include income which is paid to her 
husbands account - from which the payments for the finance agreement  seem to be made. 
Its perfectly reasonable  for a lender  to consider  joint incomes where the borrower has 
access to funds in the name of a third party. Theres no evidence  from the statements Ive 
seen - such as regular overdrawn amounts - to show  financial distress.
The bank statements with which Ive been provided  do not support the view the loan was 
unaffordable. And it seems Mrs B has since been  able to access further credit in order  to 
obtain what she presumably  sees as a more suitable vehicle. If Mrs B can show  this second  
loan was unaffordable that would potentially be the subject of a separate complaint against 
the relevant lender. But the fact that a different lender was also prepared to offer her credit  
lends support to the view that she is considered to be a creditworthy borrower.
I understand why Mrs B regrets  taking on the loan to which this complaint refers. And I 
accept and empathise with the health  conditions with which she has to contend. But however 
much I might  wish to be able to assist in the way she requires, it would not be fair and 
reasonable to say Hitachi had done  anything wrong  in this situation.
Ref: DRN21763424It carried out checks which I think were  sufficient and proportionate and - based on those  
checks - it reached a proper lending  decision.  It had no control or knowledge - until after the 
event - of Mrs Bs decision to take on additional  borrowing. Nor had it any knowledge of her 
personal health issues or how these might impact her choice  of vehicle and/ or type of 
finance.
In those circumstances I cannot  reasonably ask it to release Mrs B from her obligations 
under the agreement. And whilst  I know it will come as a disappointment, to both Mrs B and 
those who represent  her, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2176342