K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Landmark  Mortgages  Limited  (Landmark) gave him an incorrect 
mortgage redemption  figure. 
background
Mr M was moving his mortgage to a new lender. He made a request through his solicitor for 
a mortgage redemption statement. Landmark  issued a mortgage redemption statement on 
22 March 2018.  Mr M redeemed his mortgage  on 29 March 2018. Mr M had made  an 
additional payment during this time, which meant he ended  up paying more  than he needed 
to redeem his mortgage.   
Mr M is unhappy  that his redemption statement  did not take into account  the mortgage  
payment he made in March. He says he couldve used that payment to reduce his re-
mortgage with his new lender which wouldve reduced his total borrowing and the amount of 
interest hed have to pay. Mr M says he was not informed of the overpayment by Landmark. 
Hes also unhappy with the time it took to refund the overpayment. Mr M says the refund was 
issued to his solicitor instead of him. 
Landmark agrees  that it didnt attempt to contact Mr M about the overpayment and it didnt 
issue a refund within ten working days.  So it offered  8% interest  on the amount of refund for 
the time the money  was not with Mr M and £50 for the inconvenience it caused  by not 
contacting him about the overpayment.  
Mr M wasnt happy with Landmarks response, so he brought  the complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and she thought the £50 inconvenience  payment and 
8% simple  interest on the refund amount  was fair. She explained that the redemption  
statement made it clear that it included  payments  made up until 22 March 2018. Mr M didnt 
agree and asked  for an ombudsman to consider the complaint, so its been passed to me.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Mr Ms mortgage redemption statement was sent out on 22 March 2018  with a redemption  
date of 29 March  2018 at his request. Mortgage  redemption statements usually only include 
payments it has received  to date and not any upcoming payments it is still yet to receive. 
This is so there is an accurate reflection of the mortgage redemption  amount as the 
mortgage will not be discharged until the full balance has been  paid. Mr M made his 
payment by card on 26 March 2018  which was after the date of the mortgage redemption 
statement. So I dont think Landmark  were  unreasonable in not including that months 
mortgage payment  in its mortgage redemption statement.  After  all, it couldnt have known 
whether Mr M would make this payment or not given his choice to pay his mortgage by card 
rather than direct debit.      
Ref: DRN25797392I understand Mr M says he couldve used  his monthly payment towards his re-mortgage  with 
his new lender which wouldve reduced his total borrowing and interest. If Mr M still wishes  
to pursue this, most lenders accept overpayments on a mortgage  up to a certain  limit each 
year without an early repayment  charge, so Mr M could explore this option with his new 
lender. And Landmark has given him a refund with 8% interest  added  which  is likely  to be 
more than his mortgage interest  rate. So I cant see hes suffered a loss either. 
Mr M says it took too long to receive the refund of the overpayment. Under  the monthly 
payment details section  in the mortgage redemption statement it says, once the monies  to 
repay the mortgage are paid to us, please ensure the monthly  payment  for the mortgage  is 
cancelled. Any overpayment will be returned by cheque within  10 working  days. 
Landmark agrees  that it didnt issue a refund within 10 working days so it offered 8% simple 
interest on the refund amount for the time that Mr M was without his money. I think  this is a 
fair and reasonable offer as it puts Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in had the 
refund been made on time and compensates him for the time he was out of pocket. So I 
dont think Landmark  need to do any more  here.
Mr M says he wasnt contacted about  the overpayment and the refund  was not issued to 
him. Landmark agrees it didnt attempt to contact him about the refund so it offered him £50 
for the inconvenience  caused. Landmark says the refund was issued to the party it received 
the final payment  from his solicitors. I think this was a reasonable action for Landmark to 
take. 
Landmark has accepted it was wrong  in not attempting to contact Mr M about the 
overpayment and I feel £50 is a fair amount  of compensation in recognition of this and its 
added 8% interest for the delay in refunding the overpayment. I think  this is fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking  Landmark  to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2579739