K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Services Limited (BGS) has been  charging him for a home  
emergency policy that he understood hed cancelled.
background
Mr R told us that he had a visit from an engineer in 2012, under his boiler repair  insurance  
policy. That engineer said that Mr Rs boiler  was getting older, and so the parts  wouldnt be 
covered for much longer.  So Mr R told us that he had cancelled the policy. 
Recently, Mr R was going through his bank account and cancelling  some  old direct  debits. 
He said that he noticed that BGS was still charging him. So he complained. He said that 
BGS told him that he still had a policy in place. Hed been paying for it since 2012, and BGS  
had been writing to him about  his policy. Mr R said he had got some  letters  from BGS  in this 
time, but he thought they were just junk mail. 
BGS said that Mr R had told it that he cancelled his policy sometime in 2015, but it didnt 
have any evidence of that call on its system. It said that the last time an engineer  had visited 
his property was in 2012. It said that it was true that it had reduced availability for parts for 
his boiler. The boiler  wasnt made any more, nor were the parts  for it. But BGS said that lots 
of parts  were still available, so it didnt think that its engineer wouldve told Mr R that his 
boiler could no longer  be covered. 
BGS said that it had been writing to Mr R for all the time he was covered. It was sending him 
a renewal notice  every  year, and it was sending  him three letters  every year to remind him to 
book his annual  service.
BGS said it did know that Mr R had cancelled his direct debit to it in March 2018.  So it 
backdated his cancellation to then.  It had paid him back  £83.08  for premiums  hed paid since  
March 2018. And it said it could confirm that his policy had now been cancelled.
Mr R said that BGS  had told him that if he didnt contact it, then his policy would  
automatically renew. But Mr R said that his boiler  hadnt been serviced since  2012, and he 
thought that this shouldve  prompted  BGS to contact him by phone to ask why not.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that BGS had sent a large amount of 
correspondence to Mr R, including  renewal letters, annual  service reminders and even 
letters saying that his direct debits hadnt gone  through. Our investigator said he knew that 
Mr R had torn these up as junk mail, but that wasnt BGSs fault. Our investigator also said 
that Mr Rs payments by direct debit to BGS  would show on his bank statements. Our 
investigator thought  that there  might  be some onus on Mr R to follow  up his cancellation and 
check that he was no longer  being charged. 
Our investigator said that BGS had no evidence that Mr R had cancelled the policy. BGS 
had refunded £83.08 and offered a further £50 as a goodwill gesture. Our investigator didnt 
think that BGS had to do more than that. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said that he would agree that BGS wasnt 100% to blame,  but he said 
that BGS just wouldnt give us the evidence that he had contacted  it to cancel his policy.  And 
he said that if hed owed BGS money,  it wouldve worked harder to get in touch. He still 
thought that BGS shouldve got in touch with him about his annual  service, and that it was 
Ref: DRN27312302now saying it did its best to contact him, when there were other things it couldve done, like 
just ringing him. Mr R didnt think we were  being  impartial.
Our investigator checked the terms of Mr Rs policy. Those say that BGS will try three  times  
to get in touch  with Mr R. It can do that by phone, email, letter or text message.  It had shown 
that it had sent him letters. It wasnt obliged to try to ring him too. So our investigator said 
that BGS had done what it was supposed to do. 
Mr R said that BGS  had his home number, so it shouldve rung him. And if BGS  had been 
contacting him three times a year, for the last six years,  and he hadnt replied, then it 
shouldve known something was wrong.  
Our investigator didnt  change his mind. Because Mr R and our investigator didnt agree, this 
case was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr R says that he now thinks  he cancelled  his policy in 2012.  BGS says it has checked its 
systems, and theres no evidence of this. Its shown our service the notes it has from when it 
has contacted  Mr R, and theres nothing on there that suggests to me that Mr R did try to 
cancel his service in 2012. 
Mr R has suggested that BGS has evidence that he tried to cancel his policy, which  it just 
isnt sharing with our service. That is quite a serious allegation. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that BGS has done this.
Because BGS  has no evidence that Mr R tried to contact it, and because Mr R himself 
seems to have had a different recollection, at different points,  about  when he tried to cancel 
his policy, I think its more  likely than not that Mr R didnt ring BGS to cancel his policy in 
2012.
Mr R accepts that its partly his fault that this policy has been able to continue  to run since 
2012, but says he thinks  that BGS should  take some responsibility too. He points particularly 
to the fact that he hasnt had a service  on his boiler, which  hes entitled to at no extra charge 
under the policy,  for the last six years. He says BGS shouldve  done something about this. 
BGS says it has done something  about this. Its written to him three times every year, asking 
him to get in touch to arrange that service.  
Mr R says that BGS shouldve done more.  It shouldve  tried a different way to contact him. 
He says that it shouldve realised that something  was wrong. 
But I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to uphold this complaint on the basis  that 
BGS should be held responsible for checking its records to see when Mr R last had a boiler  
service, and trying an alternate contact if he hasnt used its service in some  time. 
Mr R said that BGS  was only writing to him. He said that if hed owed  BGS  some money, it 
wouldve made more  of an effort to get in touch, and not just relied on sending  letters. But I 
Ref: DRN27312303can see that there have  been points since 2012  when Mr Rs direct debit didnt clear So he 
owed BGS money then.  And BGS doesnt seem to have rung him when that happened.  It 
seems to have relied on writing to him. So I dont think  its unfair  that BGS also wrote to Mr R 
when it was reminding  him that he could  take up the offer of a service at no extra charge. 
I have seen numerous letters that BGS  has sent to Mr R. And I think  its important that Mr R 
doesnt deny receiving these. He just says he thought they were junk mail so he ripped them  
up without reading  them. Thats  not BGSs fault.  I think BGS has done enough to get in 
touch with him.
BGS also continued  to charge Mr R for the policy. So those payments would show  up on his 
bank statements. I know that Mr R has told us hes always been  bad with money,  but I dont 
think I could fairly use that to make BGS responsible for whats  gone wrong here. Our 
service does usually  expect customers to keep an eye on their own bank accounts. 
BGS has refunded everything  that Mr R was charged from the point when he sought to 
cancel his direct debit to it, in March 2018. And it has offered to pay Mr R £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill.  I have  considered carefully  all that Mr R has told us, but I dont think  BGI has to 
do any more than that. So, although  I know Mr R will be disappointed, I dont think  his 
complaint should  be upheld.
I leave it to Mr R to take up BGSs offer of a £50 payment for goodwill, if he would like to, 
and hasnt done so already.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2731230