K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  gave  him loans that he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Mr S was given five loans  by Uncle Buck  between  July and November 2014.  Mr Ss first four 
loans were repaid  in a single instalment when he was next paid.  The most recent information 
Ive seen suggests the fifth loan hasnt been  repaid. 
A summary  of Mr Ss borrowing is as follows:
loan number borrowing date repayment  date loan amount
1 9 July 2014 25 July 2014 £ 100
2 9 August 2014 22 August  2014 £ 150
3 2 September  2014 19 September  2014 £ 200
4 2 October 2014 17 October 2014 £ 200
5 13 November  2014 - £ 300
Before Mr S referred his complaint here Uncle Buck offered to uphold the complaint in 
relation to loans  four and five. Thats to say, it offered  to refund the interest  and charges that 
were applied to them.  Mr S didnt accept  that offer and I note his representative  said that it 
has raised questions about  the accuracy of [Uncle Bucks] response, although neither Mr S 
nor his representative have provided  any further details about that.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  that the checks 
Uncle Buck  did before  agreeing the first three loans were sufficient. But he thought  Uncle 
Buck should  have done more checks before agreeing the last two loans. And he agreed with 
Uncle Bucks suggestion  that it should  have realised that Mr S was relying on payday loans 
unsustainably by that point, so he recommended that Uncle Buck  upheld  the complaint in 
relation to loans  four and five.
. As there hasnt been any agreement from either Mr S or Uncle  Buck  and so the complaint 
hasnt been resolved  the case has been  passed to me as an ombudsman,  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether Mr S 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mr S. Before agreeing each 
loan it asked him for details of his income,  and his normal monthly expenditure. And 
Uncle Buck  says it checked  Mr Ss credit file before  each loan too. 
Ref: DRN20725662I think that the checks Uncle Buck did before lending to Mr S the first three times were 
proportionate. Each  of the loans was relatively modest compared to the income hed 
declared. And although the loans increased  in size each time, I dont think Uncle  Buck 
needed to do anything differently as a result  of this so early  on in the lending  relationship.  
Although Uncle Buck  says it thinks it did sufficient checks, it accepts that it ought  to have 
been aware that Mr S was becoming reliant on its loans and that it wasnt  reasonable to 
approve the fourth and fifth loans.
In its response to Mr Ss complaint Uncle Buck said I consider we ought to have been 
aware that you were  becoming reliant on our loans, as a result of this. I dont consider we 
were reasonable to approve the loans four and five, without probing your finances further. 
And having reviewed  everything,  I agree.
By loan four, I think Uncle  Buck shouldve done more than it had done previously to get a 
better understanding of Mr Ss financial situation  before lending to him. This is because loan 
four was his fourth loan in three months  and the amounts  were  generally increasing. There 
had only been  very short  breaks between Mr S repaying one loan and taking the next. 
Loan five was again for an increased amount  and Mr S took it within  a few weeks of repaying 
loan 4.  
Uncle Buck  has suggested  it shouldnt have  lent these two loans and I have no reason to 
disagree with it. The pattern  that was developing suggested that Mr S was in financial 
difficulties and was borrowing  to plug a gap in his finances left by earlier loan repayments. 
And this wasnt sustainable.
For these reasons I uphold this complaint  in relation  to loans four and five. 
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend loans four and five to Mr S. So for those 
loans Uncle  Buck should;
refund  all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest  of 8% simple a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
remove all interest and charges included in the outstanding balance, apply the
refund  to reduce any capital outstanding;
remove any adverse  information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ss credit file.
If Mr S still has an outstanding balance after the refund has been  paid,  Uncle Buck  should  
treat him positively  and sympathetically to help him reduce it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN20725663my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in relation to loans four and five, and I 
require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right by doing  what  Ive said above.
Im required  to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision by 27 September  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2072566