K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
August 2020.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. ELL has not 
provided us with anything further. Miss C provided us with some comments. Although I am 
only summarising here what Miss C has said, I have  considered her entire response 
carefully before writing  this decision.
Miss C says that ELL had a responsibility to lend based on facts, rather  than trust. So she 
says her financial situation at the time meant that the loan was unaffordable. The 
outstanding debts that she had (on a short term instalment  loan, and her bank  overdrafts) 
were larger than the loan she took.  And so taking account of the bill that she told the lender 
she needed to pay for some dental work, she wouldnt  be able to use the loan to clear all her 
existing debts. So that should  have  led ELL to question her promise  to use the loan to clear 
her debts. She thinks ELL should  have considered her application as being  too high a risk.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have not been 
persuaded to change  my mind about the decision I provisionally reached.  But I would like to 
comment on the points  that Miss C has raised.
In an ideal world, ELL should be able to base  its lending decision on facts rather than 
promises that Miss C made.  But in the case of debts  that would be repaid from the loan it 
was largely reliant  on the agreement it reached  with Miss C. I dont think it is reasonable to 
hold ELL liable if Miss C didnt repay  the outstanding  debts as shed said she would. I think  
ELL was perfectly  entitled to rely on what Miss C had said about her intentions  for the loan.
After taking account of the dental treatment  costs, the difference between  the outstanding  
credit balances and the remaining loan proceeds  is relatively small. Even though the loan 
might not have refinanced all that debt, it would  have cleared the majority of it. And since 
over half of the debt was in the form of a bank overdraft it wouldnt be unreasonable to think 
Miss C could leave a small balance to be paid at a later date. So I dont  think the 
discrepancy she has identified was such that it would reasonably lead ELL to question the 
entire application.
The information, and evidence, that Miss C gave to ELL suggested  that she could 
sustainably afford the loan repayments. I think ELL was entitled to rely on that information 
and conclude that it should  lend to Miss C. So I dont think the loan was lent irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN27509742my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27509743EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss C complains  that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL)  lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Miss C was given a single loan by ELL. She borrowed £3,226 in March 2013 that she agreed to repay  
in 35 monthly  instalments. A part of the loan was used to purchase  some life assurance that would 
provide a benefit should  Miss C die whilst  she was repaying the loan. I understand that Miss C has 
made a separate  complaint about that cover so I wont deal with it any further in this decision.
Miss Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think the checks  ELL had 
done before agreeing  the loan had been sufficient. And he thought that better checks  would  have led 
to ELL deciding that the loan wasnt sustainably  affordable for Miss C. So he asked ELL to pay Miss C 
some compensation.
Disappointingly ELL didnt respond to that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been resolved 
informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Miss Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Miss C required  it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think  about whether repaying the credit  
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice  this meant that 
ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Miss C undue  difficulty  or adverse  
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply  think  about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
Ref: DRN27509744There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing to lend to Miss C.
Miss C was entering into a significant  commitment  with ELL. She would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of three years. So I would expect that ELL would want to gather  some 
detailed information  about Miss Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I dont 
think that the checks  it did were enough. I think it would  have been proportionate for ELL to 
independently check the true state  of Miss Cs finances before agreeing  the loan. 
ELL has given us details of the information it gathered from Miss C before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income and verified  this by asking her for copies of her payslips. Miss C provided 
details of her rent costs and ELL then used some statistical data to estimate Miss Cs other 
expenditure. It checked  Miss Cs credit  file and gathered  information about her outstanding debts. And 
it asked  Miss C for a copy of her bank  statement  Miss C provided ELL with bank statements going  
back around three months.
Given the circumstances of this loan I think that the checks ELL did were proportionate.  But simply 
doing those checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react  appropriately to the information 
shown by the checks.  So Ive looked at the information that ELL gathered to assess whether it was 
reasonable for the lender to conclude this loan was sustainably affordable for Miss C.
The assessment of Miss Cs outstanding credit showed that she had a significant high cost instalment 
loan outstanding, and a large overdraft on her bank account. Servicing these debts would have made  
it impossible for Miss C to sustainably repay any new borrowing. But Miss C assured ELL that she 
would be using its lending to refinance those two debts.  I think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on 
what Miss C had said and so discount those two debts when considering whether Miss C could afford 
to repay this loan.
I would normally have a degree of concern  that the lender had used a statistical  estimate of Miss Cs 
expenditure. Its checks needed to be specific to Miss Cs circumstances rather than those  of an 
average consumer. But ELL supported  that assessment by asking  Miss C for copies of her bank 
statements. I dont know in what depth ELL assessed those bank statements but I can see some 
annotations suggesting at least some of the information was considered. And I think the bank 
statements suggest that Miss Cs normal expenditure left her sufficient disposable income  each 
month to afford  the repayments.
I dont think the bank statements  show  any clear evidence that Miss C would be unlikely to be able to 
repay this lending in a sustainable manner. Her bank statements dont show any evidence  of serious 
financial problems such multiple other credit repayments, or regular unpaid transactions. I think  it 
would have been reasonable for ELL to conclude that the loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Miss C.
I appreciate that my decision  will be disappointing  for Miss C. But I think the checks  the lender did 
were proportionate, and they suggested that Miss C would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable 
manner.
Ref: DRN2750974