K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex)  wont refund her 
for a Sat Nav she bought which she says was misrepresented. She made  a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (S75).  
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by Mr W. 
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs W chose to purchase a Sat Nav online using Mrs Ws Amex  credit card. 
In late 2017 they made a complaint to the retailer to say the traffic alert function wasnt 
working whilst they were travelling in the USA. The retailer explained this feature was limited 
to Europe only.  Mr W requested a refund as the website had suggested it would work 
worldwide. As Mr and Mrs W travelled outside of Europe for around 90 days a year,  this was 
a function they needed  and the Sat Nav was therefore misrepresented to them. 
The retailer  refused the request for a refund so Mrs W made a claim under S75 to Amex.  
Amex said a claim couldnt be made because the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement (d-c-s)  didnt exist for that particular purchase. It said the payment  from the 
credit card had been made to a third party payment aggregator (who Ill call A). Amex  said 
that it didnt have any relationship with the retailer  who sold the Sat Nav, its relationship was 
with A and this is why a claim couldnt be made. 
I sent Mrs W and Amex  my provisional  decision on 30 September  2020. I explained why 
I thought there was a d-c-s agreement but why I didnt think there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. I said:
The general effect of S75 is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services through an 
associated credit agreement and they have  a claim against the supplier of those goods or 
services for misrepresentation or breach  of contract they are given a like claim against  the 
credit provider. The relevant condition in this case is that there needs to be a link between 
Mrs W, the retailer and Amex  this is the d-c-s agreement   which finances the purchase. 
is there a d-c-s agreement?
A d-c-s  agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between  the relevant parties  
in order to be able to make a S75 claim. The formal wording is set out in section 12 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
S12(b) applies to:
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b)  and is made  by the 
creditor under pre-existing  arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements,  
between himself and the supplier
S11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use  credit agreement  as a regulated consumer credit  
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)  other than the 
creditor
Ref: DRN29647272The issues  for me to consider in this case are as follows:
Does the absence  of a direct contractual  agreement between  Amex and the 
supplier mean that S75 doesnt  apply?
If it doesnt, whether  the nature of As role and involvement meant that there  were  no 
relevant arrangements  between  Amex and the supplier under which Mrs Ws 
purchase was financed, and therefore  there was no d-c-s agreement. 
If there  was a d-c-s arrangement, whether there  was a misrepresentation or breach 
of contract by the supplier,  which  Amex  must  remedy under S75. And if so, what  is 
the amount of Amexs liability. 
In determining the first two issues above,  Ive considered  what  the courts  have said on 
matters relating to d-c-s agreements involving  more  than three  parties in both Office  of Fair 
Trading v Lloyds & ors [2006] EWCA Civ 268 and Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Scotland v Alfred Truman  (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583 (QB).
Amexs response to our investigator demonstrates that it accepts there  are instances where 
a four (or more) party  arrangement wont interfere  with there being a valid d-c-s agreement. 
This is where there  are other parties  involved in the transaction besides the credit provider, 
the consumer  and the retailer. Amex  refers to the involvement of a merchant  acquirer or a 
payment portal as an example  and I agree their involvement wouldnt generally interfere 
with the d-c-s agreement.  The courts have  also said this in the cases mentioned  earlier. 
Amex has described As involvement as a payment aggregator (although it has also referred  
to it as a payment processor). But that isnt how A describes itself.  As website explains that 
it offers payment processing and acquiring. I dont think its relevant what label is applied to 
the service(s) A provides, instead the issue I need  to decide is whether its involvement  in 
this particular transaction means Amex has, or does not have, a relevant arrangement  with 
the retailer that Mrs W bought the SatNav  from.
Amex has said they have no contractual link or direct link with the retailer and I agree. But 
section 12 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 doesnt  say there has to be a contractual  link 
between the parties  or indeed a direct  link. Instead it says there needs to be pre-existing 
arrangements or a contemplation of future arrangements  between the creditor (here,  Amex) 
and the supplier of the goods or services (here, the retailer). 
Amex says A is its merchant - not the retailer. My understanding of what Amex means by 
this is that it is A, not the retailer  that has signed up to Amexs card scheme and is entitled to 
accept Amex cards as a form of payment. But clearly Amex is aware of what  As business 
model is, in that it facilitates payments  being taken by retailers. A doesnt appear to store  or 
hold onto its customers money in any way that might make  me think it was doing more than 
just payment processing or acquiring. From what Ive seen it provides a very similar service 
to what a traditional merchant acquirer and payment processor might provide.  This, as Ive 
said earlier  in my provisional decision, wouldnt generally interfere with the d-c-s 
arrangement. 
I think Amex were aware that in entering into an arrangement with A, it wouldnt just be A 
accepting Amex cards as a form or payment for goods or services. As Ive described earlier  
A would facilitate other retailers in accepting Amex cards for payment for goods or services. 
And I think it knew  this would include retailers that hadnt otherwise signed up through its 
traditional merchant  acquiring  route.  
Ref: DRN29647273Amex has also provided screenshots of its systems which show that it was aware  of which  
retailer had actually taken  the payment from Mrs W. And it was this retailer  not A  that 
Amex posted  on Mrs Ws monthly credit card statement.  This makes me think  its even more 
likely As role in the transaction was simply to facilitate the payment being made  be that as 
a processor or acquirer  or both. So I think Amex did have an arrangement  with the retailer  
(or contemplation of future arrangements)  albeit  via the services of A. For this reason 
I think there was a d-c-s agreement. 
So for these reasons I dont think Amex acted fairly in declining  Mrs Ws claim on the 
grounds that there was no d-c-s agreement. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether there 
was a misrepresentation or breach of contract and whether it would be fair for Amex to give 
Mrs W a refund for that reason. 
was there  a misrepresentation?
For Mrs W to have a claim for misrepresentation she needs  to satisfy two criteria. The first is 
that there  was a false statement  of fact by the retailer. The second is that the false statement 
caused Mrs W to buy the Sat Nav when she otherwise wouldnt have  done.  
If both those criteria are satisfied, it can be relevant when considering what claim or claims 
Mrs W might  have against the retailer and Amex  whether the retailer  was innocent, negligent  
or worse in making the misrepresentation.  
Mrs W bought the Sat Nav online. Unfortunately there isnt a record  of what  was advertised 
at that time. But Ive seen what the website  currently says (and an archived page  from 2016) 
and Mr W has provided a picture of the packaging it came in. The crux of the issue  is that 
Mr and Mrs W say the traffic function  was misrepresented to them  as being worldwide when 
it was actually only limited  to Europe. 
Ive made  the following  observations which I think are relevant to deciding  whether there  was 
misrepresentation:
Mr and Mrs W bought the Sat Nav online and from what  theyve explained this is the 
only information they saw prior to purchase. So any information on the packaging 
isnt relevant to a claim for misrepresentation. This is because  the packaging  
information wont have  influenced  their decision as they didnt see it until after 
purchase. 
The website doesnt say that the traffic function is available  worldwide. It is just listed 
as lifetime traffic. But it says the traffic  service  is available even when driving  
abroad
The website does  however include the words lifetime maps (world). So where  a 
specific function is available worldwide this appears  to be explicitly mentioned.
Given the information available on the website, I can see why Mr and Mrs W thought the 
traffic function would  work worldwide. The particular Sat Nav they purchased  was advertised  
as having worldwide maps, so theyve assumed this meant  the traffic function  was also 
worldwide. The wording  doesnt specify what areas  it is limited  to and Ive been  unable  to 
find anywhere on the website where  this is clarified.  It appears contacting the customer  
services team first was the only way to have cleared this issue  up. 
Ref: DRN29647274The wording  is open to interpretation but I dont think I could reasonably  go so far as to say a 
false statement was made. After all, the website doesnt say the traffic  function is available  
worldwide and where a function is available worldwide (such  as the maps) this is made  
explicitly clear. And in any event, Mr and Mrs W have assumed the traffic function would be 
worldwide rather than being incorrectly told it was. As I dont think  theres  been a false  
statement of fact, there hasnt been  a misrepresentation. 
Even if I thought a false statement  had been  made (which I dont), Id still need  to be 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs W only bought this Sat Nav because of that false statement. So in 
other words, the traffic function being  worldwide was so crucial to them  that they wouldnt 
have bought the Sat Nav had they known  the true position. But Im not persuaded Mr and 
Mrs W would  have done anything differently  had they known. 
Ive reached this conclusion for the following reasons:
If the traffic feature being worldwide was crucial to their buying decision, I would have 
expected Mr and Mrs W to check  with the retailer before buying. This is because  it 
wasnt clear to what areas (if any) the traffic updates were limited  to. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  realise for nearly  two and a half years  that the function didnt 
work worldwide despite using it outside  of Europe for significant  periods of time. 
Mr W says the reason they didnt notice sooner was because  they knew  the traffic 
function was patchy in the UK and they assumed it was the same abroad. I think  this 
shows the traffic function wasnt  the most important function to them.  If it was, I would 
have expected them to have complained about it as soon  as they realised  it didnt 
work well  even in the UK.  
Mr and Mrs W havent been  able to demonstrate that there is any Sat Nav available 
that would  have given them worldwide traffic updates. Instead the alternative would 
have been for Mr and Mrs W to purchase  two separate  Sat Nav systems  (one for the 
USA and one for Australia) in order for it to work where they say they needed it. This 
would have cost them around 50% more. And presumably  they would have also 
needed to buy a third Sat Nav system to cover  their use when at home in the UK 
which would have  increased the overall cost even  further. Im not persuaded they 
would have done this for the benefit  of this one feature  particularly because they 
appear to have accepted it wasnt overly reliable and for the following reason: 
Rather than buying the new systems  when  they realised they didnt  have this function 
Mr and Mrs W have  used traffic updates  on their mobile phones while travelling  
which they say works  better than the traffic  updates on the Sat Nav. I think  this 
demonstrates this is more likely what they would  always have done had they known 
they couldnt get worldwide traffic  updates. 
So for all these reasons  I dont think there  has been  a misrepresentation. 
Ive also considered whether there  was likely  to be a breach of contract for which Amex 
might be liable for. But from everything  Ive seen, I dont think there was a breach of contract 
either. I say this because  it appears the SatNav  worked as it was intended to and theres 
been no suggestion that it wasnt of satisfactory quality (taking  into account all of the relevant  
considerations, including any implied  terms about quality). While Mrs W has argued that the 
SatNav wasnt as described, for the reasons  Ive already set out earlier, I dont agree.
Ref: DRN29647275I therefore dont  think it was unfair or unreasonable for Amex not to refund Mrs Ws purchase  
 albeit the reason Amex gave was incorrect. While  Amex could have explained  the outcome 
better, Mrs W hasnt lost out as a result  of anything Amex has done wrong. So I dont think  
Amex needs to do anything more to resolve  the complaint. 
Lastly, Mrs W has raised points regarding various consumer protection  legislation  and 
ambiguity in contracts. Whilst Ive taken into consideration what  Mrs W has said, my decision 
is focussed on whether  Amex has dealt with her complaint  fairly   not what the retailer  has 
done. S75 claims are limited to a breach of contract  or misrepresentation and some of the 
points Mrs W has raised  arent relevant to either of those considerations. If Mrs W feels  she 
has a claim against the retailer  she may wish to pursue that separately.  Ive only considered  
whether Amex has resolved the complaint in a fair and reasonable way, taking into account  
what S75 says. And whilst I think it could have  done things better, Im not planning on 
recommending it needs  to do anything more to put things  right.  
Amex accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mrs W didnt  agree. 
In summary,  she said:
What was listed on the box was relevant as a few weeks  earlier they had purchased 
an almost identical model  which had an identical box and functionality. That previous 
model was returned to the retailer and they replaced it with the one that is part of this 
dispute, as it was an upgraded version of the one they had previously purchased.  
The website says the traffic function is available abroad, but this must be 
misrepresentation as it is limited to Europe  only. 
The wording on the website isnt clear and unambiguous, the onus is on the retailer  
to be clear. 
They purchased  the product in good  faith and didnt clarify the functionality as they 
felt the information provided said it would do what they wanted it to. 
They Sat Nav gave  false positive indications  that the traffic function was working 
abroad as it would often  redirect  them to different routes.  
Using a mobile phone is a poor replacement for a Sat Nav with traffic  functionality 
and uses up mobile data and battery. They didnt purchase two other Sat Navs to 
cover USA and Australia because they didnt want to give more money to the retailer. 
It is clear there was a false  statement of fact. The remedy  for putting  that right is to 
pay the cost of buying two Sat Navs which would cover the USA and Australia. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. Ill address the 
additional points  Mrs W has made. 
Mrs W strongly feels there has been a misrepresentation by the retailer.  I understand why 
she says this, but I dont  agree. I do however agree with her that the information the retailer  
displays isnt as clear as it could  be and it is ambiguous, which as is the case here, could 
lead to misunderstandings. That isnt the same as saying the retailer  made false 
representations however.  Mrs W hasnt said that she attempted to clarify her understanding  
with the retailer  in advance of the purchase, instead, shes  said she assumed it had a 
particular functionality based on wording which didnt explicitly confirm that. 
I still dont believe what was printed on the box is relevant as while the box may have been 
the same  on the previous model, Mrs W wouldnt have known that in advance  of her 
Ref: DRN29647276purchase. And in any event, the information on the box isnt materially  different to what  was 
advertised on the website.  The box doesnt  for example explicitly specify  the traffic function 
was available  worldwide.  So Im not persuaded there  was any false representations made. 
To be satisfied there was a misrepresentation for which Amex ought to be liable for, there 
needs to have been a false  statement of fact (which Im not persuaded there was) and that 
this false statement caused Mrs W to act to her detriment. Im not persuaded that even if 
Mrs W had known the traffic function wasnt available worldwide that she wouldnt have 
purchased the Sat Nav anyway. This is because  of the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
In addition to that, while  I accept using  mobile data might in some  cases be expensive and 
drain their mobile phone battery unnecessarily, this is what Mrs W has continued to do since  
discovering the Sat Nav doesnt have the worldwide  traffic function. She says she didnt want  
to purchase another Sat Nav from that retailer due to her experience,  but they arent the only 
retailer or manufacturer which  makes Sat Nav devices. The fact Mrs W hasnt opted to find 
an alternative solution other than her phone, makes me think  its more likely than not she 
would have purchased the same Sat Nav even if she knew  it didnt have worldwide traffic. 
Particularly because  she hasnt demonstrated  that a Sat Nav exists  which  provides the 
specific functionality she was looking for. It follows that I dont think  theres  been  a 
misrepresentation and therefore Amex dont need  to do anything more to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2964727