K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd closed his account and wont provide him with information.
Background
Mr M had an account with Revolut. In March 2019,  Revolut carried out a review of Mr Ms 
account. Whilst they reviewed the account, they suspended it. Following the review  Revolut 
decided to close Mr Ms account. And it had returned money left in the account back to the 
sources of payment.
Mr M wasnt happy. Hes also spoken to the person  where the money  had come  from, and 
theyd said they hadnt received the funds back. Mr M complained to Revolut. It said it had 
acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the account.  And it hadnt  done 
anything wrong. It also gave Mr M information showing the money had been returned to the 
source. Mr M didnt accept Revoluts explanation. And wants  Revolut to give him the account 
number and sort code  of the account it sent the money back to.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ms complaint.  He said Revolut hadnt done anything  
wrong when it closed Mr Ms account and didnt have to provide him with a reason for its 
decision. And hes seen evidence that Revolut had sent the money  back to the source. So 
he said Mr M should contact this third party. Mr M disagreed. He said hed seen copies  of 
this third partys bank accounts which showed he hadnt received the money.  As no 
agreement could be reached the matter  has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ive considered Revoluts actions when  it reviewed and suspended  Mr Ms account. And 
based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied  it acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations.   
Im also satisfied Revolut acted within the terms and conditions  of the account when it 
decided to close Mr Ms account.  So, it was entitled to close  the account as its already 
done. And it wasnt required to give Mr M a reason.  So, I cant  say Revolut has done 
anything wrong  when it closed Mr Ms account.    
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he wants Revolut to tell him what  it did with the money 
in his account. In particular  he wants the sort code and account number of the account which 
Revolut returned  the money.  Revolut is not obliged to provide Mr M with someone elses 
bank account  details  as much as hed like to know.  So I cant  say Revolut have done 
anything wrong  by not providing this information to him.
Revolut has however provided  the name of the persons  account.  And it has given Mr M a 
printout of his account activity showing that the money was returned to the third party.  I know  
Mr M has questioned the authenticity of the paperwork  because it doesnt show the third 
partys account details. But Ive not seen anything which would support Mr Ms suspicions.  
Ref: DRN28069912In summary,  Revolut have  explained theyve returned the money which  was left in the 
account to the original  source. I appreciate Mr M says hes spoken to the source of the 
money and they say they havent  received  it. But based on what  Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Revolut did send it  so Mr M will have  to pursue things with the third party.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2806991