K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Nationwide Building  Societys actions in temporarily blocking his card.  
Hes also raised concerns about  its record keeping and the customer service he received.
background
On 16 June 2018 Nationwide blocked  Mr Rs card. It has said that this was precautionary 
and intended to protect both it and Mr R as its systems had been alerted by the recent 
spending pattern  to possible  fraud on his account. Mr R was on holiday at the time.
Mr R called Nationwide the next day and the block was removed. When he asked why 
Nationwide hadnt  contacted him it came to light that the telephone number Nationwide  held 
for Mr R had been recorded incorrectly  a few years earlier. Mr R was unhappy with this as 
he says hed updated his contact details  recently  in a branch. He was also unhappy this 
information hadnt been verified by Nationwide or the error noticed  previously. 
Nationwide said it didnt  think  it had made  an error in blocking the card.  It did though  
acknowledge an error had been made when recording  contact information  which  had meant 
it hadnt been able to contact Mr R when  the card was blocked. It offered him £50 for the 
inconvenience caused. Unhappy with this Mr R referred his complaint  to our service.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt think Nationwide had made an error  
by blocking the card. He also thought the offer made by Nationwide was a fair way to resolve  
the complaint.  Mr R doesnt  agree.  He says Nationwide didnt do enough to validate his 
phone number and doesnt look likely to change its processes without being prompted to. So 
the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the block Nationwide put on Mr Rs card, I dont think it has acted unreasonably. 
Nationwide has said that the number of consecutive contactless payments in a short  period 
of time led to its systems flagging that the card might potentially  have  been  being used 
without Mr Rs authority. The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account  say that Nationwide  
can suspend the card if, amongst other things, it has concerns that it is being used 
fraudulently. So I think Nationwide was entitled  to take the action  it did. 
Mr R has asked why he wasnt instead  directed  to make a Chip and Pin transaction or why 
previous similar spending patterns  hadnt resulted in the same  action.  A business fraud  
prevention procedures are by necessity confidential.  What  may trigger  an alert and the 
action which  that alerts prompts might be different at different times   so that the procedures 
cant be manipulated. My role is to look at whether Nationwide has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the individual circumstances. And here I think Nationwide did.
The terms of Mr Rs account go on to say that if Nationwide blocks access  to a card it will try 
and let the account holder  know immediately. Nationwide  wrote  to Mr R when  the transaction  
was blocked and tried to call him, but couldnt  as the number it held was incorrect. So 
Nationwide did attempt  to do what  it was required to  it just couldnt reach Mr R as the 
details it held were  wrong.
Ref: DRN20888862Nationwide has acknowledged  that the information it held was wrong because of a mistake it 
made when  entering  information previously. The fifth digit of Mr Rs phone number was 
entered onto its systems incorrectly. 
Mr R has said that he went into branch in May 2018 to update his contact details. 
Nationwides notes  show that his address details were updated but not his phone number. I 
dont know what was discussed in branch. But I note Mr Rs actual phone number didnt 
change at this time.  So it could  be the number Nationwide held was confirmed based  on the 
last few digits and the recording error was missed as a result.  Mr R has also asked why this 
information wasnt verified previously. But there  wasnt  any requirement on Nationwide to do 
this. And it wouldnt have been  verified unless Nationwide  had tried to use the number and 
this looks like the first instance where  Nationwide had needed to do so. 
It is unfortunate that the error wasnt noticed  earlier. And this was compounded by the timing 
of when the error came to light. And Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr R. Mr R 
has said, as he was away from home, he was left needing  to borrow  money from friends until 
the card was unblocked the next day, which was embarrassing. And I dont doubt that he did 
feel embarrassed. But as Ive said I dont think Nationwide  made an error when it placed the 
block on his card. And it was lifted the next day so the disruption was minimised. So in these 
particular circumstances  I think  the offer of £50 made by Nationwide is fair and reasonable.
Mr R has said he doesnt think Nationwide is likely to improve its processes  without our 
service prompting them  to do so. As Ive said, other than what  appears to be a data entry  
error, I dont  think Nationwide has done a lot wrong here. And that is my role  to look at 
what has happened in the individual circumstances of the complaint. Our service is not a 
regulator and cant require a business to change its processes. 
So while I know Mr R feels  strongly  about  this, and that he is likely to be disappointed  with 
my findings,  for the reasons Ive explained I dont think  Nationwide  needs to take any further 
action regarding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. I think  the offer already made,  which  I understand has already been  paid to Mr R, is 
fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088886