K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Nationwide Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy by competing  a paper application.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £149.41  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £68.79 with the PPI costing an additional £6.85 making the total 
monthly repayment £75.64. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs P for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ps monthly loan repayment for up to 
the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12-month in the event  of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs P was employed as a head  chef. She has told us she was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying her loan should she be unable  to 
work. Mrs P has said she suffered an injury sometime before the sale.  
NBS has sent us a loan account transaction list to show that the loan account closed in 
2003. 
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ps representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mrs P about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN29484082The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs P and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN29484083The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ps case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mrs P sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
Ref: DRN29484084her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and NBS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mrs P says she applied for her loan and PPI by completing a leaflet. NBS says it cant 
confirm how it sold her the PPI, but its records indicate it mightve been sold via a telephone 
sale followed  by a paper  agreement. NBS no longer has all the documents and evidence 
from the time of sale (there  isnt for example a call recording if it was sold over the phone)   
this isnt surprising  given how long ago the policy was sold. But it does  mean I have limited 
information available to help me decide  this case  so I have looked at the evidence  that is 
available and decided  what  I think  is more likely.    
NBS has been  able to provide a copy of Mrs Ps loan agreement. On Mrs Ps loan 
agreement, I can see the PPI is set out under a heading Optional Credit Insurance. I dont 
know what (if anything) Mrs P was told when  she initially discussed applying for the PPI 
(whether that was over the phone or in person in a branch for example), but had she ever 
been led to believe  the PPI was compulsory, I wouldve expected  her to have questioned this 
on receipt of the loan agreement which clearly labelled the PPI as Optional . 
The loan agreement  set out the costs of the PPI separately, set out that Mrs P would  be 
covered by the insurance, and that shed be covered for disability, unemployment  and life. 
Mrs P signed the agreement  so she agreed  to take the PPI.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
Both NBS and Mrs P agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs P. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs P to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs P was 
Ref: DRN29484085unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs P would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs P knew that the single premium  being added 
to the loan was £149.41,  the interest  added to the premium was £14.99,  the total cost was 
£164.40, and the monthly  cost was £6.85 (as this information was, in my view,  sufficiently 
clear on the loan agreement Mrs P signed.)   
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mrs P? To what extent did Mrs P suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs P. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs P suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs P would have still 
taken out the policy,  had NBS done  things properly.  
Ref: DRN29484086Mrs P says she would  not have  taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs P had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs P thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mrs P was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit,  limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
As Ive explained above, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P knew she was 
borrowing the money to pay for the policy and what it would cost. Overall,  Im not persuaded 
Mrs P found  the cost unacceptable as she had been  given all of the cost information in the 
loan agreement she signed when she completed  her application for the PPI. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mrs P would get back  in return  in the event 
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ps expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs P knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or had consulted a doctor about during  the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy and which recurs  within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Mrs P says she suffered an injury before the PPI was 
taken out and the policy might not have  provided cover had she needed  time off work 
because of the injury.  But I dont think better information about this exclusion would have put 
her off agreeing to it. I say this because this injury happened several  years  before she 
bought the PPI and shes  not said she had any ongoing issues with it since. NBS says she 
Ref: DRN29484087told it that this injury was a one-off  incident. So, I dont think she envisaged this would be the 
main reason  shed need to make a claim.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs P needed  to not be doing any work. I dont think  this is likely 
to be too different to what she would have expected to make a claim. She bought cover to 
protect her payments if she was unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
So, it seems  unlikely she would have thought shed be able to make  a successful claim if 
she was still working, whether that be in her normal job or any other job. 
From what  I know about NBS policies, the policy likely did provide a pro-rata  refund  if it was 
cancelled early, so the policy provided  flexibility if Mrs P decided to repay  the loan early and 
cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Mrs P made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN29484088Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks NBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mrs P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find NBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs P and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that NBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2948408