K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Simplyhealth Access unfairly made changes to his health insurance 
policy without explaining  them.
background
Mr S holds a health insurance policy with Simplyhealth Access.  In September  2017,  they 
wrote to him to tell him they would be making  some changes to his policy.  It said the policy  
Mr S had in place (policy  1), would come  to an end early in November 2017. And instead, a 
new policy (policy 2) would be put into place and subject to new terms and conditions. This 
meant Mr S policy claim year would also end in November, when the new policy begun.  
Mr S said he received Simplyhealth Access  letter but didnt think  it was clear. And so, when 
he made a claim in December 2017 for some  optical appointments, he thought the claim 
would be deducted  from his entitlement under policy 1. 
But when Mr S checked his remaining entitlement for the year, he realised the cost of this 
claim had been  deducted  from his entitlement  under  policy  2. And due to this cost and the 
policy limits  for this type of cover, it meant he wasnt  able to claim  for any further optical 
appointments until his claim entitlement renewed  in November 2018. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He hadnt realised the claim year was being  changed  and had 
expected to have his full entitlement available to him in January  2018 should he wish to 
make any further claims. So he made a complaint to Simplyhealth  Access saying he had 
paid for 12 months  of insurance, but had only been  able to claim for 10. He said the option to 
claim under policy 1 in November and December 2017 had effectively been taken away  from 
him. And Simplyhealth Access hadnt explained  this.
Simplyhealth Access said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said under the terms 
and conditions of the policy it could make  changes to Mr Ss policy  as long as it provided him 
with 30 days notice.  And it had given Mr S around two months notice of the changes being  
made. Simplyhealth  Access also said that as the policy was paid for by a monthly premium, 
Mr S had not been charged for the two months in question and hadnt lost out.
Mr S didnt agree so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  into 
the complaint  and didnt uphold it, saying she didn't feel Mr S had been treated unfairly.  
Mr M asked  for the investigators assessment to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same  overall  conclusions as our investigator  previously set 
out - and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr S policy, Simplyhealth Access is allowed to make 
changes if it provides Mr S with at least 30 days notice. And I can see in this case  
Simplyhealth Access gave Mr S around two months notice of the changes it was making.  
Ref: DRN29000192Mr S hasnt disputed that he received this letter. And so Im satisfied Simplyhealth  Access 
gave Mr S enough notice  under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr S said the letter wasnt  clear in stating  that his claim year would be changing.  So Ive 
read the letter carefully.  And Im afraid  I dont agree with Mr S. On page  3, in bold lettering 
under the heading summary of cover it states: 
Policy  (claiming) year: 1 November 2017  to 31 October 2018.
And so I dont agree that Simplyhealth Access didnt make it clear that it was changing the 
claiming year. I think Simplyhealth Access  highlighted the change  in claim year as one of the 
important changes it was making. It follows that I dont think  it has done  anything wrong 
here.
Ive taken into account Mr S concern about paying  for 12 months of cover  and only receiving 
10. But his policy was renewed on a monthly,  and not annual, basis. This means he paid his 
premiums on a monthly basis and therefore  wasnt charged for cover he didnt receive. Ive 
also noted that one of the changes made to the policy during the update, was to change  the 
policy from monthly renewable to annual.
I appreciate that it would have been  disappointing  for Mr S to find out that hed used all of his 
optical claim entitlement  so early on in the claim year. But for the reasons given above, Im 
satisfied Simplyhealth Access provided Mr S with sufficient notice that changes were  being 
made that might affect him. And Im satisfied they clearly explained the changes too. 
So, taking everything  into account, I find on balance, that Simplyhealth Access  have  treated 
Mr S fairly and reasonably and Im not directing it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900019