K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as the Post Office Card Account, 
wont refund  him for withdrawals which he didnt make or authorise.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by his daughter, Mrs P.
background
Just before Christmas in 2018, Mrs P visited her father. Shed not seen  him for a while so 
was distressed to find the condition he was in. He had no food to eat, no electricity available  
to heat his flat and hadnt  paid any bills for more than six months. He told her hed lost his 
debit card for his Post Office card account.  
As soon  as she could  after Christmas, Mrs P tried to sort things out. She got a new card for 
him and he went to his post office  to withdraw  some  money. Mr S found he only had a 
weeks worth  of pension  in his account  and didnt understand what  had happened.  Hed 
thought all the money hed not withdrawn  for months  would  be in his account and he could 
pay his bills and start getting  things back  onto a more even keel.
Noticing the pattern of withdrawals after June 2018   when a new card had been in all 
likelihood intercepted  showed  withdrawals all being made at cash machines some way 
from Mr Ss home, Mrs P complained to JPM.
Mr S soon found his new card stopped  working.  It had been  cancelled by a third party on 
16 January 2019.  It seemed there were now other disputed  withdrawals  from Mr Ss 
account. Mrs P was concerned at the lack of support her father was getting  from JPM.
They felt as the genuine card and PIN had been  used these transactions  must have been 
authorised. They also pointed out their terms and conditions required Mr S to take steps to 
keep his PIN safe and take reasonable steps  to take care of his card.  They also confirmed 
Mr S had been sent regular statements and should have noticed any discrepancies and 
notified JPM earlier.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Initially our investigator told JPM he thought it was possible a third party  had been  able to 
compromise Mr Ss card and PIN. He was certainly  convinced Mr S hadnt had the money or 
been able to use it because of the state  hed been  living in during this period. He felt it was 
possible Mr S had been vulnerable and been taken  advantage of. JPM didnt respond.
In the end our investigator couldnt be sure how Mr Ss card and PIN were  compromised. 
Overall he didnt think he could say Mr S hadnt authorised the cash withdrawals which  
approached £6,000.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 17 April 2020.  I came  to a different conclusion  as I 
didnt believe the evidence suggested Mr S had made these transactions or authorised  them 
himself.
Ref: DRN21186812Mr S accepted this conclusion. JPM didnt. They believed the history of Mr Ss card use 
suggested hed always have known how his cards  would be delivered to him. They remained 
concerned hed never alerted JPM to any concerns or been  noticing what was going on by 
paying attention to his statements.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as my provisional decision whilst taking into account  what JPM has said. Ill 
explain further.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So 
when we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint,  one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them. We then go on to consider whether the customer has acted in a manner that could be 
seen as grossly negligent.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both JPM and Mrs P, on behalf of Mr S, have told us. We also approached Mr Ss 
housing complex  as we knew  hed gone  to them for assistance in 2018  when  he wasnt able 
to get his pension. They confirmed Mr S had no phone, as Mrs P had already told us.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 4 December 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
A total of £5,788.92 worth of withdrawals is in dispute. These  took place between 
1 June and 22 December 2018 and then between 19 and 21 January 2019.
From  January 2016 until 1 June 2018 11 different cards were cancelled  and collected 
on this account.  
JPM dont retain  calls from this period to confirm whether these calls were being  
made by Mr S or not. They have  told us they believe the correct information about  
the account was always used to identify the caller.
As well as basic account data I believe this included information about  memorable 
date, time or place.
From  1 June the transactions  all look different in nature.  There  were numerous  
balance enquiries  conducted just after midnight to check  when Mr Ss Department of 
Work and Pensions payments were being  made.  Pretty quickly  after that withdrawals 
were made using a cash machine. The remainder of the pension  is then withdrawn in 
a post office using  the new card that was picked up from branch on 1 June.
The locations for these withdrawals are different to where  Mr S used to previously 
withdraw his pension. It was formerly unusual for Mr S to use a cash  machine.
Ref: DRN21186813Mr S has few friends and for a period wasnt in regular contact with his daughter.
Ive seen photographs which show the state of Mr Ss flat from this time period. 
These have been shared with JPM. Mr Ss living situation seems desperate. I dont 
think theres any dispute something wasnt right here. I can easily see how vulnerable  
Mr S was and he was clearly in no situation  to look after himself.
The disputed use that was made  of Mr Ss card doesnt look to me as if it could have 
been done by Mr S himself. The just after midnight timings  of lots of the withdrawals 
suggest this to be unlikely. Mr Ss behaviour  may have been erratic  but I see no 
reason why he would need to be taking out money  at that time of the morning. 
Nothing in his previous behaviour suggests he did this.
Ive considered whether Mr S allowed someone else to use his card permanently.  
This seems unlikely. Its difficult to reconcile  someone living in such desperate  
circumstances as Mr S was in December  2018 with the idea that this happened 
willingly.
There are also the disputed transactions that took place in January 2019 to consider 
as well. I am concerned  that by that stage JPM knew  there  was something going on 
 Ive seen Mrs Ps concerned letters to them  yet their systems werent  able to 
identify a card being cancelled  and a new one being picked up and used  fraudulently.
So having  reviewed what happened,  I dont think theres any evidence  to support the idea 
Mr S consented to these  transactions  being  carried out by someone else.
So I need to consider how an unknown  third party  although I suspect this person may not 
be unknown to Mr S  got hold of Mr Ss account  details along  with the card and PIN. JPM 
has confirmed what their terms and conditions state  about Mr S needing to keep his card 
and PIN safe.  But the requirement  in the Payments Services Regulations around whether 
Mr S has acted  in a grossly negligent manner is that the business  must provide evidence to 
that effect.
Ive still not seen JPM provide any evidence on this aspect. 
I have considered whether it is likely that Mr S could have fallen victim to financial or 
emotional abuse from someone  purporting to be a friend or even offering to help him out. I 
think this is most likely. One possibility is that a third party could have helped Mr S get new 
cards as he lost his own frequently. I think it is very possible  this happened regularly taking 
into consideration Mr Ss chaotic home  situation. This would also explain how the PIN was 
known. I dont think its the case that the state  of Mr Ss home only built up over a six month 
period. 
All the evidence  including from the housing provider  points  to Mr S not having  his own 
phone. A third party may have  offered Mr S the assistance he needed. This could have led 
to Mr S having to share some information about  himself. Or the owner of the phone could 
have listened  to Mr S whilst he was calling JPM and find out what responses Mr S gave to 
the security check carried out.  
JPM sends out notices telling customers a new card is ready to be picked up. Someone  
would then need that notice  which if someone was keeping  a careful eye on Mr S 
pretending to be a friend would be easy to locate  and Mr Ss PIN. I see it as quite feasible 
that someone who knew Mr S could  know the PIN by accompanying him when he picks up 
his pension and seeing it. 
Ref: DRN21186814To state  the obvious, I cant be sure what  exactly happened here.  JPM has questioned my 
reading of the evidence.  The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity  for 
the card and PIN to be compromised; rather whether the payment services  user (Mr S in this 
case) authorised these  transactions.  Its not my role to decide  how someone else could have 
got hold of Mr Ss PIN, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster  
may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Ss card and PIN without his consent.  I believe  I have explained  how this could 
have happened  as above.
I have also considered whether Mr S acted grossly  negligently or with intent . But in light of 
other explanations of what  may have occurred,  I dont  think  there is enough evidence to say 
this was the case. It certainly wouldnt be right as JPM suggest that by not reading his 
statements, Mr S was acting grossly negligently.
JPM will need to repay  the money  that was taken out of Mr Ss account  without his authority. 
JPM has wondered why its necessary theyre  required  to pay 8% simple interest on this 
amount. As they know our service  use this figure  when  its appropriate  someone  is 
recompensed for the time they were without their own money.  There  is no relation  to where 
the money came from or whether the account is an interest-bearing one.
Bearing in mind the condition Mr S was living in  and the impact  of having so little money  
Id not have expected  them to balk at this. Particularly as Im not awarding  any additional 
compensation.
I have considered this complaint carefully.  There is supporting evidence for JPMs assertion; 
likewise there is evidence  in support of Mr S. I have to decide  this case on the balance of 
probabilities, and considering the case overall and on balance  I have decided the facts 
support the outcome as outlined above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  J P Morgan  Europe  Limited  to:
Repay £5,788.92 to Mr S. If J P Morgan  intends  to keep £35 as they can under the 
terms and conditions  of the account,  they will need  to confirm this to him; and
Add 8% simple interest to the amounts from the date they were withdrawn until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2118681