K820x#14complaint
In 1997, Mrs G took out a credit account  with a high-street retailer.  Alongside the account, 
she also took a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. She believes that the policy  was 
mis-sold to her and has asked for a refund  of all the premiums she paid, plus interest. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) provided the insurance and has taken  
responsibility for the way the policy was sold. To keep things simple, Ill therefore use the 
term FICL throughout this decision when discussing actions taken by all those involved in 
selling the policy to Mrs G. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
FICL had mis-sold the policy to Mrs G and didnt  recommend that it should give her any 
money back. Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to review her case,  so it has 
come to me to consider  and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  what to do in Mrs Gs case.  Ive looked into everything  
that Mrs G and FICL have  told us or sent us about  the complaint  and Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G has told us that FICL never explained  that PPI was optional and didnt tell her that she 
was signing up for it. But FICL has sent us a copy of the credit agreement  which  Mrs G 
signed, and I think it shows that FICL presented PPI as optional  and gave Mrs G a choice  
about it. 
FICL called its PPI policy Account Cover and the credit agreement had a separate  section 
about this. It gave a very brief description  of the cover and then offered customers the 
chance to apply for the policy by ticking a box alongside  text which  said:  
 Yes, I would like to protect my Account  with Account Cover...".
Mrs G has ticked  the box and signed the agreement  on the same  page. The form also 
offered another insurance option in the same way and Mrs G seems  to have declined that 
option. 
Two decades have passed since  Mrs G took her credit account  and I fully accept that she 
may no longer  remember completing the credit  agreement, but Im satisfied that FICL  let her 
know that PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. Had she not wanted  it at the time, 
she could have left the box unticked. 
Mrs G has told us that she cant  remember whether she bought the policy over the phone or 
over the counter in the high street store, or whether FICL advised  her to take it. FICL has 
found some  records which seem to show that Mrs G took the policy  in the store and it says 
that it sold her the policy on an information only basis, without making  a personal 
recommendation to her. 
Ref: DRN24494242Without any further information,  I accept that FICLs records and comments may well be true 
in this case. This meant  that FICL  had to tell Mrs G about the policy fairly and clearly so she 
could decide if she wanted it, but it didnt have to check  that the policy  was right for her 
circumstances. 
Mrs G has told us that FICL didnt explain the policy to her properly. The credit  agreement 
contained very few details  about  the policy  and I accept  that its quite possible that FICL 
didnt explain things  to Mrs G as well as it should have done. So Ive looked into the policys  
likely features to see if there  were  any which may have put Mrs G off buying it if FICL had 
told her about them.
Mrs G has told us that she cant  remember where she worked  in 1997. This sort of policy  
had eligibility rules about policyholders being in work and on the credit agreement  Mrs G has 
ticked to say she was employed. So I think she probably met the eligibility rules for being  in 
work. Similarly, I havent seen anything  to make me think that Mrs G was caught out by other 
eligibility rules or by the policys likely limitations  and exclusions. She also seems to have 
been able to afford to pay for the policy. 
So I think that Mrs G would probably  still have bought the policy  even if FICL had explained 
things properly. I dont  think that FICL mis-sold PPI to Mrs G. 
Mrs G has recently  told us that while she held the policy she had some problems with her 
health and now thinks that she may have been able to make a claim. Id like to let her know  
that she may still be able to make such a claim, although I cant give her any advice about 
this or comment on the chances of any claim succeeding. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im not upholding  Mrs Gs complaint against Financial 
Insurance Company Limited. Im not going to tell it to give her any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2449424