K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed  his accounts saying they were dormant and 
hes now having great difficulty getting his money back.
background
Mr B lives abroad and he had an HSBC bank  account  which he hadnt used for some years. 
So it wrote to him and when it didnt hear back it closed his accounts. HSBC wanted 
identification documents from Mr B before it would release his money to him. He said he 
sent them by courier but HSBC said it didnt  get them. So it said he should go to a branch 
but because he doesnt live in the UK hes finding this difficult.
The adjudicator tried to help him sort this out with HSBC and eventually HSBC  released his 
funds to him and offered him £150 compensation. But she thought  HSBC  should increase 
that to £250 to compensate for the trouble  and upset itd caused  him. She also thought 
HSBC should  pay statutory interest from 15 February 2018 to 5 March 2019  when the funds 
were released. HSBC agreed to the suggested settlement. But Mr B said this wasnt  enough 
in light of the time, energy and frustration  this has caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.  And theres very little I can add.
HSBC were entitled to consider Mr Bs account  was dormant. And when it didnt get a 
response from its initial letter explaining  what it was intending to do, it was entitled  to close  
the account and ask for identification before  releasing the balance  in his account.  But it 
seems to have had difficulties in accepting his identity. So his money wasnt  released until 
this Service became involved. HSBC has agreed  it should pay Mr B £250 compensation for 
the trouble and the stress  this delay has caused.  And its agreed  to pay interest from the 
date the courier  delivered the identification documents to HSBC (which it said it never 
received) to the date it released his money.
Mr B says this isnt enough.  But our role is not to punish financial organisations. Our role is 
to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  taking into account the impact on 
the consumer.  So bearing that in mind, I agree with the adjudicator that £250  is an 
appropriate level of compensation.  And I agree with the adjudicator  that HSBC should  pay 
statutory interest on Mr Bs funds from 15 February 2018 to 5 March 2019.  
Ref: DRN21464162my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr B:
£250 compensation and 
statutory interest from 15 February 2018 to 5 March 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2146416