K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr M says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think FICL  made  it clear  that Mr M didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. I say this because  FICL has 
provided us with the application form completed  and signed by Mr M at the time. On this 
form the PPI is presented  as an optional product and Mr M has ticked  to say he wanted to 
take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr M says he wasnt given adequate  information and had he been  given a choice he 
wouldnt have taken  the PPI as he didnt  need it. But looking  at his circumstances and the 
cost and benefits of the PPI, I dont think better information wouldve changed his decision. 
The application form clearly showed that he had a choice and Mr M ticked to say he wished 
to take out the PPI, so I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and so it follows  I dont uphold Mr 
Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsm
Ref: DRN2934240