K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do enough to help him recover  money using 
chargeback for a service hed paid for using his business debit card.
background
Mr O made  a number of debit card payments from his business account to two merchants in 
December 2017  so that he could  make investments through  those  merchants. He was 
unhappy with the way these two merchants operated and made trades  in products on his 
behalf. He received some of the money from one of the merchants back  when he asked. But 
nothing from the other  merchant. He contacted HSBC and it raised chargebacks  on his 
behalf and initially  credited the payments back to his account. These chargebacks  were  not 
successful and Mr O does  not think it explained  the reasons for his dispute sufficiently well. It 
also re-debited the payments resulting  in an overdraft.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that HSBC  had 
made efforts to recover  the money  through chargebacks and had taken this to arbitration 
without success.  It was not our role to say exactly how HSBC  should deal with this. And we 
could not look into what the card scheme itself had done and said during arbitration.
Mr O did not agree. He said that HSBC had not filed these chargebacks correctly. And that 
HSBC had failed  to convey the correct response  to the card scheme and so the request had 
failed three  times.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and the rules  are set by the operator of the card scheme. 
Wed expect HSBC  to make a chargeback  request that came within the scheme  but it does 
not make  the decisions on the outcomes. 
I think that the payments made here were for a relatively complex and ongoing  service.  
There are a number of possible chargeback reasons and a chargeback has to be made 
exactly in line with the relevant reason whatever  the wider circumstances of any dispute. 
Here HSBC used the reason of mis-representation  which Mr O seemed to accept as being  
right especially as he had authorised the payments. The focus of this chargeback  reason   
and which  is set by the card scheme - is about whether the payments were taken in line with 
the terms and conditions and whether if there was money due to be returned that it was on 
request. 
Although Mr O clearly has some very detailed arguments about  the behaviour of those 
merchants its fairly  up to HSBC to decide how best to make the request. Its also often the 
case that chargeback  requests dont get to the arbitration stage  but here HSBC has made 
further efforts to pursue  this. When these were unsuccessful it told Mr O about  this and that 
his account would be re-debited with the payments.
Ref: DRN26689082I know Mr O is sure that hes been scammed and misled and the outcome is unfair and I 
sympathise with his position. But hes not convinced me that HSBC  did not act in line with 
the specific chargeback  scheme rules and make  adequate chargeback requests
So Im afraid  I cant agree  with Mr O that HSBC  has made a mistake  or acted unreasonably 
and that it should refund any of this money. I know Mr O refers to having taken legal advice 
before and he remains free to pursue what seems to be a civil matter with those merchants.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2668908