K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about issues  hes experienced with a motorbike  supplied  with finance from 
Close Brothers Limited.
background
In December 2017 Mr J was supplied with a motorbike  and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
In January 2018 Mr J experienced  problems  with the brakes and a rumbling noise in low 
gear. He contacted Close Brothers who told him he had to give the supplying  dealer an 
opportunity to inspect  the bike. The supplying dealer arranged  for an independent garage to 
inspect the bike.  
Following inspection the brakes  were confirmed to be in working order. The chain was 
cleaned and adjusted. The inspection identified some wear and tear items  and 
recommended that the brake  discs  were replaced  and the brake fluid changed.
The supplying dealer offered to replace the brakes and discs provided  that Mr J paid for the 
parts.
Mr J continued to experience problems with the brakes and the rumbling noise. Whilst he 
was riding the bike the ABS light came on so Mr J took the bike to a nearby garage that 
cleaned the callipers, bled the front brake  system and cleaned the sensor. 
Mr J contacted Close Brothers again  and said he wanted to reject  the bike.  A further 
inspection was arranged  with the same  garage who had inspected  the bike before. The 
inspection said the chain was worn and the sprocket  was non-standard and suggested that 
this might be the cause  of the rumbling noise.  The inspection also recommended  a brake 
fluid change.
Close Brothers didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint. It said that the first report from the garage 
said the chain  was ok and therefore the chain  didnt have a point of sale fault.  It also said 
that the first inspection  would have mentioned the non standard  sprocket and suggested that 
this had been altered subsequently.
Mr J was unhappy with Close  Brothers  response. He says he hasnt changed the sprocket 
and that because of the issues with the bike hes no longer  riding it.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the age of the bike meant  that 
there were parts which were likely to need replacement  from time to time and that if the worn 
chain was the cause of the rumbling noise, then this would be a wear and tear issue rather  
than a  fault. The investigator also said that because the bike had passed an MOT  in March 
2018 it was likely that the replacement of the brake discs had resolved the original  issue  with 
the brakes, and that the issue  which Mr J was experiencing now was a new issue which 
might be due to the brake fluid requiring replacement,  which  would be a wear and tear issue.
Mr J didnt agree. He said the problem with the brakes was intermittent and that the MOT  
only checks the brakes in a stationary  position,  not driving on the road.
Ref: DRN25094332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the motorbike  under a conditional  sale agreement, 
theres an implied term that the bike has to be of satisfactory quality. Bikes  are of a 
satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking 
into account all of the relevant circumstances, such as (amongst other  things) the age and 
mileage of the bike and the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand bike to have a degree 
of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the 
bike wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply due to  an inherent defect rather  than 
general wear and tear.
Mr J and Close Brothers disagree about whether  the bike had a fault at the point of supply. 
In order to reach a decision, I need to look at the available  evidence  and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the bike was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr J experienced issues  with the bike within approximately 2 weeks of the point of supply. At 
the time when the issues arose  the bike was approximately 9 years  old and had covered 
approximately 25,000 miles.
The problem presented as spongy  brakes  and a rumbling  noise.  The bike was inspected in 
January 2018.  No faults were found but the report recommended  replacement of the brake 
discs and changing the brake fluid. I can see that Mr J paid to have the discs  replaced in 
January 2018.
Mr J has said the braking problem and rumbling  noise was still present  after the discs were  
replaced. I can see that the next contact Mr J had with Close Brothers  was in March  2018. If 
replacing the discs  hadnt resolved the issue, I wouldve expected Mr J to have  contacted 
Close Brothers again sooner than he did, particularly as hes said that he was concerned 
about the safety of the bike.  Mr J hasnt explained  why approximately  2 months passed  
before he reported  issues  to Close  Brothers again. I think  its more likely that the 
replacement of the discs resolved the original issue with the brakes. The nature  of the issue 
experienced by Mr J in March 2018 was different to before  he reported the ABS light 
illuminating. 
The bike was inspected  again in April 2018. Once  again, no faults were  found  with the 
brakes, but the engineer  identified that a non standard sprocket  had been fitted and the 
chain was worn. This was thought  to be the cause of the rumbling noise.
I think its significant that the bike has been  inspected twice by an independent garage but 
no faults have  been found with the brakes.  All of the issues  identified  by the garage were 
wear and tear issues, which Im unable to hold Close Brothers responsible  for.
I also think its significant that the bike passed  an MOT in March 2018.  Brakes  are tested  as 
part of an MOT and if the brakes were  not functioning correctly  I would  have expected this to 
have been identified and noted.  But theres nothing on the MOT  to indicate any concerns 
about the brakes.
I appreciate that Mr J has said he doesnt  feel safe riding the bike.  Its not clear whether Mr J 
has followed  the advice  of the engineer at the last inspection and replaced the chain. A worn 
Ref: DRN25094333chain is a wear and tear item and not a point of supply fault, so this isnt something Im able 
to ask Close Brothers to pay for. 
Taking all of the available information  into account,  I dont think theres sufficient  evidence  
for me to safely conclude  that the bike wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It 
seems more likely  that Mr J has experienced some issues  which  have arisen as a result  of 
wear and tear.
For the reasons  Ive given I wont be asking Close Brothers to allow  Mr J to reject the bike.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2509433