K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Deeside Insurance Brokers Ltd renewed his home insurance 
policy without his agreement and then sought to charge him an excessive fee when he tried 
to cancel the policy.
background
Mr M held a home insurance  policy through Deeside. The policy renewed automatically each 
year. Shortly  after the policy renewed in May 2018, Mr M rang Deeside to ask about 
cancelling the policy. Deeside  said Mr M would have to pay £71.80 in fees and premium. 
The policy wasnt cancelled.
In September  2018, having  just moved  house,  Mr M rang Deeside again. He said he wanted 
to cancel the policy. Deeside actioned this but told Mr M he owed  £121.94 in fees and 
premium.
Mr M complained to Deeside.  He said the policy had renewed in May 2018 without his 
agreement. He said hed wanted  to cancel the policy at that time and only hadnt done so 
because hed been told he would have to pay a cancellation fee, which he considered unfair. 
He considered it was unfair that he should  now have to pay any cancellation fee.
Deeside didnt uphold  his complaint. It said that the policy  had renewed automatically  each 
year since  2012 and so it shouldnt  have  been a surprise to him when this happened again in 
2018. It said he had chosen not to cancel the policy in May 2018  and the amount it was now 
charging him in fees was in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr M was unhappy at Deesides response. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
The evidence shows that Mr M had agreed  for the policy to auto-renew  each year.  Deeside 
has provided evidence  to show that it tried unsuccessfully  to email the renewal reminder to 
Mr M in April 2018 and so it sent it instead  by post.  This was over three weeks  before the 
renewal date. Im satisfied this was fair and allowed  Mr M a reasonable period of time to 
respond if he did not wish for the policy to renew.  It is unfortunate if Mr M didnt receive the 
renewal reminder but I cant reasonably hold Deeside  responsible for any failures  of the 
postal system.
After not hearing  back from Mr M, Deeside  automatically renewed the policy.  I consider this 
was fair. It sent Mr M confirmation of the renewal.
After receiving the confirmation, Mr M rang Deeside asking to cancel the policy.  Deeside 
explained that the policy had already  renewed and so a cancellation  fee of £65 would be 
payable, along  with payment of the premium for the short time hed been under cover. The 
cancellation fee had been spelt out in Deesides terms and conditions  which  had been 
provided to Mr M, so Im satisfied that what it told Mr M at this time was fair.
The evidence from Deesides file note indicates  that Mr M was unwilling to pay the 
cancellation fee. This was Mr Ms choice. He told Deeside  hed already obtained cover from 
another insurer. Deeside therefore  invited  him to provide evidence of this alternative cover  
Ref: DRN23912902because this might allow  it to cancel the policy from the date of renewal and thus enable him 
to avoid the cancellation fee. I consider this was reasonable  on the part of Deeside.  
However, despite being chased by Deeside on two occasions, Mr M failed  to provide the 
evidence requested. The policy therefore  remained in place. Mr M has since  explained that 
he instead cancelled  the alternative cover he had taken out, which confirms that he made  
the decision to continue with his existing  policy.
In September  2018, Mr M asked Deeside to cancel  the policy. Deeside actioned this request 
but explained that, as before, there  would be a £65 cancellation fee to pay. I again consider 
this was fair and in accordance with Deesides terms and conditions.  Deeside explained  that, 
along with other monies owed for the cover  which had been provided, this meant Mr M 
needed to pay a total of £121.94. Im satisfied this was fair. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Deeside has acted  fairly  in the way it has treated Mr M.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr M responded to say he didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said he contacted 
Deeside before  the renewal date to say he wanted to cancel the policy.  He said it wasnt until 
months later that he realised they were  still taking the monthly premiums and so he 
cancelled the direct debit, at which  point  Deeside sought to charge him a cancellation fee. 
He considered that Deeside had acted unfairly.
Deeside didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
Mr Ms version of events is inconsistent with the evidence. This shows that Mr M didnt 
contact Deeside until after the policy  had renewed,  hence it advised him that a cancellation 
fee would  apply which Mr M wasnt prepared to pay.
Mr M still might have  been able to cancel the policy and avoid the cancellation fee if he took 
up Deesides invitation to provide evidence  of the alternative cover which he said hed taken 
out. However, he didnt  do this. Instead, I consider that he knowingly remained under cover  
through Deeside until he moved house  in September  2018,  at which  point he decided to 
cancel the policy.  Deeside then charged  him the appropriate fee for cancellation. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that Deeside did nothing wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2391290