K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  started action to enforce a possession order  
after telling him it would  agree an arrangement to pay when he could confirm his income.  
Mr B also complains that BoS hadnt referred  him to its team dealing with vulnerable  
customers.
Background 
Mr B has a repayment mortgage with BoS.  In January 2013 a court granted  a possession 
order to BoS following  a period of increasing  arrears due to non-payment. The order  was 
suspended on the condition that Mr B pays BoS his contractual monthly payment (CMP) plus 
£100. In practice,  that meant the possession order would become enforceable if Mr B failed 
to make his CMP in any month from that point onwards  and failed to make  an additional 
payment each month of £100  until the arrears balance was repaid.
Following the court  order, Mr Bs payments continued to be erratic,  but additional lump sums  
were made at various  intervals to reduce  the arrears. The arrears level fluctuated  for some 
years until rising to approximately £11,000 in October 2017. In November 2017  Mr B made 
payments to clear the arrears following BoSs action to enforce the possession  order. BoS 
carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B, a payment arrangement of 
CMP plus £159.65 was agreed and the eviction was cancelled.
Mr Bs circumstances changed when he was involved  in a road accident in November 2017.  
He sustained injuries which led to him being  unable to work. In the year that followed,  Mr B 
experienced difficulty in making his payments. The arrears initially increased  to 
approximately £4,000 in May 2018, but BoS carried out an exercise to reconstruct the 
account, leading  to a reduction  of the arrears by approximately £2,750.  Following that the 
arrears increased again to approximately £3,500  by September 2018.
Mr B called BoS on 26 September 2018 to agree a payment arrangement,  saying he was 
back in work. During the call, BoS partially  completed an income and expenditure 
assessment with Mr B. But it couldnt be fully completed because  Mr B couldnt  be certain 
how much  hed be paid.  They  agreed that Mr B would call back  in a week to confirm his 
earnings so that the arrangement could be agreed. At the end of the conversation BoS told 
Mr B that it may still start an enforcement review in the next few days.  Within  the week  Mr B 
received letters saying BoS had asked its solicitors to enforce the possession order.
An eviction date was set for January  2019.  Mr B made an offer to partially repay the arrears 
in November 2018 and another higher one in December 2018, but BoS required the arrears 
to be cleared in full before it would  cancel the eviction. In January 2019 Mr B made  a 
payment to fully clear  the arrears  and BoS cancelled the eviction. 
Mr B complained that BoS went against  a legally binding verbal agreement when it sought  to 
enforce its possession order. And it should have made him aware  of its team  that deals with 
vulnerable customers.  He researched that himself  and requested the referral  in March  2019. 
Mr B says he had to borrow money to clear the arrears at a ridiculous interest  rate and BoSs  
practices could have led to him being made homeless and suicide.  
BoS wrote  to Mr B with its final response  to his complaint in November  2018.  It said Mr B 
has been unable  to maintain his monthly  payments  since the enforcement of the possession 
order was last cancelled   in November 2017.  BoS said it wrote to Mr B on                          
Ref: DRN2902585211 September 2018 confirming it would instruct solicitors to apply for an eviction date unless 
a payment arrangement could be made. Mr B called but a payment arrangement could not 
be made because  Mr B couldnt  be sure about his income. BoS said the advisor made  Mr B 
fully aware that an enforcement review was imminent and that when Mr B next called with 
the date he intended to make a payment, the account would possibly be with its evictions 
team.
Mr B didnt accept BoSs response  and referred his complaint  to this Service. Our 
investigator found that BoS didnt agree an arrangement to pay on 26 September 2018  and 
did tell Mr B that it may still enforce the possession order. He couldnt see that Mr B had 
made BoS aware that he was vulnerable before then and he thought  it wasnt  unreasonable 
for BoS to seek to enforce  the possession order when it did.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
During his correspondence with us, Mr B has also said BoS hasnt followed FCA guidelines 
when dealing with him, particularly with regard to vulnerability. He says he shouldnt have 
had to deal with numerous uncoordinated departments within  BoS. But I havent seen that 
he made those specific points to BoS when making his complaint and BoS hasnt addressed 
them in its final response letter.  Ive asked BoS to consider those issues  and it has agreed  to 
do so under a separate complaint. So, Ive not considered either of those complaint points as 
part of my final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and will explain why.
To reach my decision Ive considered whether  BoS did break an agreement  with Mr B, made 
during the telephone conversation of 26 September 2018; whether it was reasonable for BoS 
to start its enforcement  review when it did and whether BoS should have referred  Mr B to its 
customer priority  team (CPT) before its enforcement review.  
The conversation of 26 September 2018
BoS wrote  to Mr B on 11 September  2018, confirming that the current level of arrears on his 
mortgage account was £3,491.87. It said Mr B should contact  it with his income and 
expenditure details,  and that it may instruct solicitors to enforce the possession order and 
apply for an eviction date unless  an arrangement can be agreed.
Mr B contacted BoS on 26 September 2018  BoS has provided us with a recording of that 
telephone conversation.  During the call, Mr B says he wants  to agree an arrangement  to pay 
in line with the original suspended possession order  his contractual  monthly payment plus 
£100 each month.  To assess whether the proposal  was affordable BoS asked for details of 
Mr Bs income and expenditure, as it said it would in its letter  of 11 September 2018.  Mr B 
couldnt be sure about  the amount hed be earning  he was self-employed and had to 
prepare an invoice  for his current job. That meant the income and expenditure assessment 
couldnt be completed and an arrangement to pay couldnt be agreed.  Mr B agreed with BoS 
that he would contact it when he knew the amount  of the invoice  Mr B said that would be 
Ref: DRN29025853next week .  But BoS did say that the account could  potentially still have an enforcement 
review in the coming days and that it may look to enforce  the possession  order.
As BoS informed Mr B that his account may still have an enforcement  review  and it made no 
assurances that any action would wait until it heard from Mr B, I dont uphold this part of his 
complaint.
The enforcement review
As BoSs letter of 11 September 2018 explained,  it was able to enforce the possession order  
because Mr B hadnt kept to the terms of the suspended possession order  his account was 
£3,491.87 in arrears.  But I have thought about whether it was reasonable to start an 
enforcement review  which led to it setting an eviction date  before the time Mr B said he 
would inform it of his invoice amount.
I asked BoS to explain why it took this action when it did. It says it considered Mr Bs 
assertion that he was waiting for an insurance  pay-out that would clear  the arrears.  But due 
to the increasing  arrears;  the further detriment to Mr Bs equity and credit file; and the fact 
that the terms of the suspended possession order were not being met, it decided  to proceed. 
BoS explained that, often,  customers make promises to pay to delay litigation. But, until 
payment reaches the account, BoS cant rely on that.
Ive considered BoSs reasoning. Firstly, I agree  that it can seek to enforce the possession 
order if Mr B isnt adhering to the terms of its suspension.  Looking at the account history   
both leading up to the event complained about  and throughout the term since  the order  was 
granted  its clear  Mr B hasnt adhered to the terms.  The arrears on the account have risen 
on numerous occasions due to Mr Bs erratic payment pattern. Mr B has made lump sum 
payments to clear the arrears and BoS has, as already mentioned,  sought  to enforce the 
possession order in the past. In September 2018, the account was more  than three months 
in arrears. So, I agree that at that time it was able to seek  to enforce the possession order.
Mr B had been in a road accident  towards  the end of 2017  and he says that prevented him 
from working. Hes provided medical evidence  and from that its clear that hes suffered a 
great deal of pain since  the accident.  So, I dont doubt that had a significant impact  on his 
ability to carry out his job. And I think its reasonable to conclude that contributed to the 
erratic payment pattern since the accident. But, irrespective of the reason for the arrears, I 
wouldnt expect BoS to allow the state of the account to worsen  without taking action. I agree 
that it was right to consider the long-term  effect of the increasing arrears  on Mr Bs equity 
and credit file.
I know that, during  the telephone conversation  of 26 September 2018, Mr B did say he was 
back in work  and could  start to make  payments  in line with the terms of the suspended 
possession order. And he said he was expecting an insurance pay-out, with which he would 
clear the arrears. But Ive also seen  that Mr B made  promises  to call back  to complete 
income and expenditures assessments or make  payment during previous calls in 2018  and 
didnt do so. And BoS has confirmed that the account arrears  currently stand at over 
£20,000, indicating  that the potential insurance  pay-out  wasnt  the solution to the arrears 
problem. So, I think it is reasonable that BoS chose not to rely on Mr Bs assurances alone in 
September 2018. Overall, I dont think it sought  to enforce the possession order unfairly.  
Referral to the customer  priority team
Ref: DRN29025854Ive listened to calls between the time of Mr Bs accident and when he made his complaint in 
September 2018. There was mention of his accident  during some of these calls,  but when 
asked more about it by BoS,  Mr B appeared reluctant  to go into details and seemed more 
inclined to only discuss the matter in hand  making  a payment or discussing a return  to 
work. Mr B did say hed been incapacitated for three months and that hed had a medical  in 
respect of his insurance claim. He mentioned  that he had been immobile,  but he generally 
referred to the accident and injuries  in the past tense and didnt indicate that there were any 
ongoing health issues of any significance.
Since the date of his complaint and in his submissions to this service,  Mr B has mentioned 
that he suffers with anxiety and depression. Hes also provided medical evidence  in that 
regard, but not until after he made his complaint in September 2018. 
By September 2018,  BoS would have known that Mr B had an accident  that had made him 
immobile for some time, been out of work  because  of it for several  months and was waiting 
for an insurance pay-out. But it wouldnt have known about  his mental health problems and I 
think it would  have  been under the impression that he was recovering steadily from his 
injuries. While I accept  a persons level of vulnerability is relative, I dont think  BoSs 
knowledge of Mr Bs condition, before September 2018, was necessarily  enough for it to 
conclude that he was particularly vulnerable. And Ive heard from the telephone  recordings 
BoS provided that it did ask him about his health.  So, I dont uphold this part of Mr Bs 
complaint.
Overall, while  I can see that Mr B has gone through a particularly difficult  time,  I dont  think 
BoS broke an agreement  with him in September 2018 and I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for it to start its enforcement review  at that time. Im also not satisfied that BoS should  have 
known to refer him to its customer  priority  team before  he complained in September 2018.
As Ive already  mentioned,  since  this complaint was made, the arrears on Mr Bs mortgage 
have increased  significantly.  Id now expect  BoS to complete  a full review of Mr Bs 
circumstances before deciding on the appropriate  next steps.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about  Bank  of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902585