K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  they were mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1997.
Although the policy was sold by another business, Allianz Insurance  Plc, the policy  insurer  
has accepted  responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
  
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage. At the same time they were sold a PPI policy. 
The policy covered Mrs M only against  not being  able to work due an accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. The policy cost £10.08 per month and could have paid a monthly 
benefit of £160 per month for up to 12 months.
In 2001 Mrs M made a successful disability claim on the policy and received £320.
The policy was cancelled in 2002.  
In 2018 Mr and Mrs M complained about  the sale of the policy. Allianz said the policy had 
not been mis-sold.  An adjudicator from this service also thought  the policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  findings so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Allianz hasnt been  able to send us much  paperwork  from the time and has limited 
information about the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that 
has gone by since  the sale took place. But where there is limited  information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence 
available, what  both  parties have told me and what we know about  these types  of sale.
Mr and Mrs M say they were not given a fair choice in deciding whether to take the policy.  
They have said they were pressured  to take the policy and were told they needed to take out 
the policy in order  to obtain the mortgage. 
It looks like the mortgage was arranged in an estate  agency so it seems most likely the 
policy was sold in a meeting.  I think it is very likely the representative would have completed  
a fact-find to establish  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  in order  to apply for the mortgage. And 
as part of this fact-find  I think the representative  would also have discussed Mr and Mrs Ms 
protection needs including their need  for life cover  and PPI   
I note Mr M had recently retired and was in receipt of a pension,  so Mrs M was the only 
wage-earner. As such the PPI policy was set up correctly  to cover Mrs M only. So I think a 
conversation most likely took place about the PPI and who it should  cover.
Ref: DRN25659952Allianz has shown  us an example of a PPI application form which it says was in use at the 
time by the estate  agency. I think it is likely Mr and Mrs M completed and signed this type of 
form. The application is in the form of a leaflet. Ive read the leaflet and Ive not seen 
anything that gives the impression it was part of the mortgage application  or necessary in 
order to obtain  the mortgage. And I note the premiums would have been taken separately to 
the mortgage and would  have appeared on Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements. The policy  was 
in force  for some years until late 2002 when it was cancelled, so Mr and Mrs M continued to 
pay for the policy for over five years.
I must also take into account that the meeting took place 22 years ago and memories do 
fade over time. As the sale took place in a meeting  the representative probably would have 
recommended that Mr and Mrs M should  take out the policy, but that isnt the same as 
saying they had to.
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs M were  most likely made aware  the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so long.
I think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the policy  was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think that it 
was, I say this for the following reasons: 
The policy was set up to cover Mrs M. from what Ive seen she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. For example she wasnt  in an unusual employment 
situation and didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt be covered. She was also 
eligible for the policy so she could have  made  a successful claim if she had needed to.
Mrs M has told us shed  receive 12 months  sick pay if shed become unable  to work. From 
experience it would be rare to receive  12 months  full sick pay particularly  as Mrs M had only 
been with her employer for 18 months  at the time. But even if Mrs M were  entitled to this 
amount of sick pay the PPI would have paid her a monthly benefit in addition to her sick pay 
so I still think shed  have  found it useful, particularly  if she became unable  to work for a 
prolonged period of time.
The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit  if Mrs M had lost her job. Meaning she 
could use any redundancy pay for other  living expenses.
Mr and Mrs M had some  savings, I understand Mr M had recently retired and has received a 
lump sum as part of his retirement package. But as they chose to keep the savings rather 
than use them to take out a smaller  mortgage  I think the savings were likely important to 
them. And the policy would have helped  them  to keep  the savings intact if things went  
wrong. 
After so many years  its impossible to know what information Mr and Mrs M were given.      
So its possible the information Allianz  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Allianz made Mr and Mrs M aware  the policy was optional and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Allianz recommended  was 
Ref: DRN25659953right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Allianz  
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565995