K820x#14complaint
Mr S is represented. His representative  says an Appointed Representative (AR) of 
TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) did as follows:
Gave him unsuitable inheritance tax (IHT) planning advice. [issue  1]
Gave him unsuitable and unduly limited  advice on the options  for the investment and 
management of his portfolio. [issue 2]
Misdirected a third-party Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) on the basis for 
management of his investment portfolio. [issue 3]
Failed to properly monitor his investment portfolio. [issue 4]
background
Mr S was advised by the AR in 2015.  Tenet has referred to fact find documentation  from the 
time (June 2015) and it says his investor  profile was mainly as follows:
He was around 67 years old, retired and without dependents.
He had pension  income of £100,000 (gross) per year, no liabilities and jointly held 
assets of around £1.3 million (including his home  and investments).
He had not reviewed  his investments  for quite some time. He had significant capital 
gains accrued within them and had not been using  his Capital Gains  Tax (CGT)  
allowance.
His objectives were to consider setting up a loan trust (in the value of £500,000) for 
IHT purposes, to review his investments (and CGT position), to have them 
proactively managed  by a DFM (with exposure  to a mixture  of direct securities and 
managed funds), to have them managed for growth  and to consider the use of an 
offshore bond  in this respect.
He had a high/medium risk profile  and an investment time horizon of six to 10 years.
Tenet disputes the complaint and its position on the complaint issues is mainly as follows:
In response to issue 1, initially the AR recommended the loan trust solution to Mr S 
IHT related objective; this was done because Mr S was, at the time, not prepared to 
make outright gifts from his estate; he then changed his mind and decided he was 
prepared to make such gifts; the AR updated  his recommendation to propose  gifts 
from the estate under  Potentially Exempt  Transfers (PETs); this was suitable advice 
that matched  his revised objective, and it was given  in the context of other  options  
which had been discounted with reasons. 
With regards to issues 2 and 3, the ARs  suitability reports   including the version 
that was updated and provided to Mr S in September 2015  referred  to Mr S 
investments having been previously self-managed by him somewhat inefficiently (in 
terms of the investments and related tax implications),  hence  his desire for active 
DFM management. Options to address this were considered.  It was agreed  that a 
bespoke DFM based arrangement (inclusive  of daily monitoring)  was the best choice 
and the types  of underlying investments to consider  and not to consider  were 
discussed with Mr S and were well reasoned in the ARs  recommendations. Various 
DFM options were  researched and considered  overall costs/charges  were also 
compared. Rathbones was recommended as being suitable to provide active  
management of his investments in addition to providing face-to-face meetings with 
him (which he said he would value, in order  to better understand investment 
decisions). The AR asked  Rathbones  to provide a proposal document based on Mr 
Ref: DRN21607242S investor  profile. Rathbones  did this in September 2015  within  which its 
understanding of his profile was listed  and it followed this up with a welcome  letter 
in October 2015  that presented information about how the portfolio  it had constructed 
for him would address  his objectives. Mr S was presented with these documents  at 
the time and did not object to them because they matched his profile and objectives.
In response to issue 4, Mr S DFM  arrangement began in October  2015  and the first 
review meeting was scheduled for April 2016 (to allow for a six months review); he 
had online access to the DFM portfolio  account  and access  to quarterly portfolio 
valuations; he also had direct access to (and contact details for) his Rathbones DFM; 
the terms of the DFM service meant Rathbones  was not obliged  to meet him at the 
outset and that meetings were to be arranged  at the clients (Mr S) request; 
Rathbones provided six monthly  detailed performance reports  on the portfolio; in 
addition, the AR conducted bi-annual reviews of the portfolio to monitor its 
performance (including monitoring of the CGT related problem that existed at the 
outset) and to ensure it remained consistent  with the mandate  given to Rathbones; 
these reviews were communicated to Mr S in writing and sometimes discussions 
between him and the AR took place around  them; and the reviews  and discussions 
included the treatment of performance  matters. 
For all the above reasons,  Tenet  disputes the complaint. 
Solicitors for Mr S  who appear  to have previously  represented  him  submitted his 
complaint to the AR in 2018. Within the complaint, their main arguments were as follows:
More suitable  IHT advice could  and should  have been given  to Mr S in issue  1. The 
loan trust and PETs recommendations were unsuitable. The former involved high 
charges, poor tax benefits and the loss of benefits accrued in Mr S Individual  
Savings Accounts (ISAs). The latter was a poor recommendation   which turned out 
to be unsuccessful  in contrast  to the merits of, for example, passing  Mr S excess 
annual income  in permissible gifts to his beneficiaries (thereby using the excess  
income in a way that served  his beneficiaries  and avoided  inflating his capital asset 
value); or using  a portion  of his capital to invest in assets (like Alternative Investment 
Market (AIM) shares) which allowed the capital  to become IHT free after two years   
his high/medium risk profile  lent itself to such investment. The second alternative 
could have improved  the portfolios performance   based on Mr S capital investment 
amount of between  £460,000 and £600,000 and depending on the investment  
strategy used within it  by between  £35,000 and £92,000. 
The ARs advice  was defective   under issue 2  because he failed to give Mr S 
alternative options for investing the portfolio;  he failed to recommend alternative firms  
 other  than Rathbones (which  the AR appeared to favour  for personal reasons)  
that could provide  the DFM based  service;  and he conducted a poor costs/benefits 
analysis in relation to his recommendations. In the process, the AR breached  a 
number of the regulators Principles and rules.
In issue 3, the AR and Mr S had agreed a high/medium risk profile  for him and a 
growth profile for his portfolio, yet Rathbones DFM service was based on a medium 
risk profile for him and a balanced profile  for his portfolio. There  was clearly  a 
mismatch in this respect and the AR was responsible for that. A further  example  is 
that the AR agreed  with Rathbones use of the WMA Balanced Performance Index as 
a benchmark for the portfolio, yet this had not been agreed with Mr S  and the AR 
appears not to have  even monitored  Rathbones management of the portfolio against 
this benchmark.
With regards to issue 4, reference  was made to a delay of eight months, from the 
inception of the portfolio, before Mr S held his first meeting  with Rathbones. 
Ref: DRN21607243Mr S current  representative has presented similar core arguments  on his behalf   within a 
very detailed  Expert Report that was submitted to this service and that addressed  specific 
procedural and substantive flaws perceived  in the ARs work (and advice).  He also argues 
that the AR should have  ensured that Mr S met with Rathbones before it was appointed  as 
the DFM and that, overall, the recommendation of Rathbones and the lack of meaningful 
alternatives in the recommendation  defeated the whole-of-market basis upon  which  the AR 
should have been advising Mr S. In this respect  he argued that the AR should have arranged  
meetings with other potential DFMs, in order to give Mr S options to consider before  making  
his selection. The representative concluded his report (and executive  summary) with a 
detailed account  of the regulatory breaches  he considers that the AR committed.
Mr S appears to have  complained separately to Rathbones about  the performance of his 
portfolio. Rathbones  August 2017 complaint  response has been shared with this service. In 
as far as could be relevant to the present complaint  about Tenets AR  it says Mr S 
signed its client agreement in September 2015;  he selected an investment objective of 
capital growth and a medium  risk profile; this was confirmed  to him in its welcome letter (to 
him) in October 2015; and its total fees over the period of the portfolio was £8,659.39.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and did not consider it should  be upheld.  
He broadly agreed with Tenets position on the complaint.  Mr S representative disagreed 
with this outcome.  He maintained the core arguments for the complaint and, in the main, 
said:
The evidence Tenet submitted  to show that the AR conducted a market  review for 
DFMs is misrepresentative. It is dated  June 2014,  whereas Mr S did not engage with 
the AR until June  2015 (a year later), so the evidence cannot possibly relate to him.
Mr S specific request was for investment advice linked to his IHT objective   which 
was a priority for him. It remains  the case that the advice  given by the AR was 
disjointed in this respect and was limited in addressing  the IHT issue  other and 
wider options would have been  more suitable.  The investigator did not properly 
address this and he was wrong to suggest  that an inability to quantify the claim in this 
respect means the claim has not been  established.
A key argument is that Mr S was denied the whole-of-market based service  he 
needed and was entitled to.
Mr S wanted high or high/medium investments but, as a result of Rathbones DFM  
service (which was not properly  instructed  and monitored by the AR), he ended up 
with neither (that is, with medium  risk investments). A similar point  arises  with 
regards to the portfolios objective.  It should  have  been  managed  purely for growth 
but, instead, was not. The AR failed  to properly monitor  and instruct Rathbones in 
this respect too.
The investigator should address the specific regulatory breaches alleged in the 
complaint.
Mr S representatives comments were shared with Tenet. In response, Tenet  said:
The 2014 evidence  addressed by the representative relates  to the ARs advice to 
another person for whom a joint file (jointly  with Mr S) was held. Evidence of the 
market analysis conducted for Mr S in 2015  is featured in the suitability report  that 
was sent to him and it reflects the work the AR did in this respect.
It stands by the ARs advice on the IHT issue and the representatives argument that 
other suitable or more suitable recommendations could have been given does not 
Ref: DRN21607244mean the ARs recommendation  was unsuitable. The same  applies to the 
representatives reference to disadvantages  in the ARs recommendation  that alone 
does not make it unsuitable.
The representative has misunderstood  Mr S risk profile rating. His high/medium 
rating meant he had a medium attitude to risk (ATR), but one that was at the high 
end of the medium category. Rathbones  use of a medium risk profile therefore 
matched Mr S ATR.
All the ARs  investment recommendations were aimed towards growth. The same  
was reflected in Rathbones proposal document. There is also documentary  evidence 
of the reviews that were conducted  for Mr S and his portfolio. Overall, it is not clear 
why his representative continues to argue that there have been failings in these 
areas.
Having established,  with evidence, that the AR advised Mr S suitably it does not 
consider that any of the alleged regulatory breaches exist.
The investigator then gave final comments which broadly agreed with Tenets  points. He 
also highlighted the definition used for Mr S high/medium risk profile  at the time it was 
agreed  
You accept the risk of a moderate loss to your money in return for the potential for growth 
above inflation. A suitable portfolio is likely to include a mixture of higher risk investments 
such as shares and lower  risk investments such as gilts and bonds.
He noted that Mr S raised no objection to this, or to the similar profile  rating confirmed to him 
by Rathbones,  in 2015. He also explained  that treatment of the complaint is for the purpose 
of addressing the issues that Mr S says have affected him  not to determine alleged  
regulatory breaches in isolation. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
I have been led by the documentary evidence that has been made available. They have 
provided background context for the submissions that have  been  made  by the parties   
which I have also given  due consideration. Mr S representative doubts  some of the contents 
of some of these documents and he has made reasonable arguments about  whether  (or not) 
record of Mr S expressions within them are directly  his  as opposed to being expressions 
made by the AR on his behalf. 
Overall, and unless I later state otherwise in any particular respect, I consider the documents 
to be reliable. I state this as a preliminary  point.  I do not dismiss the idea that some contents 
could be expressions  on behalf of Mr S. This is not particularly uncommon   in fact find 
documents, for example,  where one is completed  by an adviser on the basis of instructions 
from a client. This does not automatically mean such contents are unreliable.  In Mr S case  
and in the absence of evidence that he objected to information (of which  he was aware)  I 
consider such information  broadly reliable.
I also note that some  documents lack Mr S signature,  despite provisions for it, but I have  
taken a similar approach  in this respect  that is, where there is evidence, on balance,  that 
Ref: DRN21607245he was aware of the relevant contents of such documents but did not raise  objection I 
consider them broadly  reliable.
Issue 1
As his representative says, IHT advice was a priority  for Mr S. The fact find document (from 
June 2015) expresses this  and there  is reference  to the enclosure of this document in the 
financial planning report that was sent to him in August 2015. The report invited  Mr S to raise 
objection to any inaccurate information he was presented with  there does not appear  to 
have been any such objection at the time.  
Mr S retired  in 2005. Between 2010  and 2012 he had made lifetime gifts to his non-
dependent children in the amounts £88,000  and £100,000 respectively. 
The document says he was concerned about the prospects of a significant IHT liability on his 
estate; that he did not wish to make  any further  gifts because,  at the time, he wanted to 
retain access to his capital; that he favoured the idea of a loan trust for these reasons (given 
that he retained access to the loan capital whilst protecting  growth on that capital from future 
IHT liability  and whilst having  the option  to write-off the loan capital in the future (and start  
the 7 yr gift rule)).
He was prepared  to fund this idea from all available sources, including his ISAs  which he 
considered as follows  The ISAs have done their job but they are not inheritance tax free 
so I am willing to forgo these for the bigger IHT issue.
The AR was aware  of the importance of Mr S IHT objective. This is reflected in the client 
agreement covering letter he sent Mr S in June 2015 and in the financial planning  report. 
The latter refers to a potential IHT liability on the excess  of Mr S estate beyond the nil rate 
band  this excess being around £380,000  and that this was a major concern for him. The 
loan trust solution  was recommended  to him in this respect and the report  says it was Mr S 
preferred solution  out of the options  that were discussed with him.
The report  also says the AR was mindful that the wider review of Mr S portfolio  which  I 
address under issue 2 below  stood  in the context  of his IHT objective. I am persuaded that 
his recommendation  suitably  reflected this. His initial recommendation was an International 
Investment Bond  (IIB), containing  the reviewed and discretionarily managed wider portfolio, 
under a Discretionary  Loan Trust (DLT). This was aimed at having the effect of addressing 
Mr S investment related objective (review  and management for growth)  within  the IHT 
solution  which is essentially what Mr S asked for. 
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider this to have been unsuitable. I acknowledge the 
arguments that have been made  about other  alternatives and it is indeed possible that other 
IHT solutions could have  been recommended to Mr S, that some might have been suitable  
for him and even  that some might have been  more suitable than the loan trust idea. 
However, such possible alternatives do not automatically make the idea of a loan trust 
solution unsuitable for him, and it is not uncommon  for DLTs  to be suitably  recommended  
and used for IHT planning.
Mr S instructions changed  after the initial recommendation.  In a follow up suitability letter 
sent to him by the AR in September 2015  it is noted that he reconsidered and declined the 
initial recommendation of the loan trust solution for his IHT objective.  It appears that he 
determined his own solution to the matter, which was to revert  to the option of making 
Ref: DRN21607246lifetime gifts  which he had done  previously. I mention  this because evidence  suggests that 
the ARs  advice was sought for the purpose  of achieving this solution  not necessarily to 
explore alternatives. 
This does  not mean an advisers duty to give suitable advice does  not extend to advising 
against something a client  wishes to do which would  be unsuitable for that client. Depending 
on the circumstances of a case,  an adviser could  be obliged  to do this. In Mr S case the AR 
had already recommended an alternative  to the idea of making  gifts out of the estate.  As I 
said above, the loan trust recommendation was, on balance, not an unsuitable one. 
Mr S rejected the recommendation and was entitled to do so. In doing so, he appears to 
have revised the terms of the advice sought  from the AR. He no longer wanted  his 
investments reviewed and managed within an IHT solution. After his change  of mind, his IHT 
and investment objectives were essentially separated  the latter was to proceed on its own 
standing, whilst the former was to be addressed separately through  gifts from the estate. It is 
evident from the ARs September  2015 letter that much  more emphasis was placed  upon the 
investment objective  and, I consider,  reasonably so. The IHT matter was not completely 
abandoned. The AR provided  Mr S with useful  information to consider with regards to PETs 
and I consider that this too was reasonable.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded that the AR gave 
Mr S unsuitable IHT planning advice.
Issue 2
Fact find evidence (from  June 2015) presents the same profile  for Mr S  that has been 
described by Tenet (and has been summarised  in the background section  above).  It also 
confirms that Mr S had  a lot of experience  in investing in all asset classes inc equities. 
The ATR questionnaire document, from around  the same time,  confirms the same.  This 
document also contains the following expressions  by or on behalf  of Mr S:
 I am willing to take risk by investing in equities  but I do not wish to reckless  and expose  
all these funds to such high risk asset classes.  I feel a more measured approach is required 
 I have the capacity to cope with losses due to my time horizons and income but I do not 
wish to take unnecessary  risks.
I wish to invest for growth  and I want to achieve  a real return above inflation 
Mr S was assessed with the high/medium risk profile  that both parties have referred  to  
based on the definition that the investigator  quoted. It is also not disputed  that his objective  
for his investments   was growth (or long-term growth). The ARs financial planning report  
captures both of these  aspects and  as I address  below, under issue  3  the same was the 
case for Rathbones understanding of Mr S profile. The report reflects  a direct request from 
Mr S for a DFM based arrangement. This appears to have  been  more of an instruction from 
him to the AR  which  the AR fulfilled   and less of a recommendation initiated by the AR.
In terms of the risk profile, he appears  to have wanted exposure to as much  risk (and 
potential reward) as possible within the remit of a medium risk investor  profile  without 
going as far as undertaking a high risk profile. The expressions quoted  above  lend support to 
this conclusion, as do the documents related to his risk profile assessment. The result was 
the high/medium  risk profile  which, as Tenet  says,  was a medium ATR at its higher end. It 
Ref: DRN21607247also cannot be ignored that Mr S was made aware of this profile  assessment by the AR at 
the time and he neither objected to it nor did he ask for a higher  risk profile. 
The recommendations made to Mr S addressed his investments  and their management.  
With regards to the investments, the suitability  letter says options were discussed with him  
and there  does not appear to be evidence  from him disputing this at the time. I consider that 
this sufficiently addresses and defeats  the argument  that has been made about a lack of 
investment options  for him. A firms duty to give suitable investment advice is met by giving 
such advice. This can sometimes rest on a single suitable recommendation and it is not 
necessary to give a range  or variety of suitable  recommendations  within  such advice.  
The task remains to consider whether the recommendation given to Mr S was suitable. His 
pre-existing investments  included a number of ISAs, four Investment Bonds (IBs) and two 
funds in Open  Ended  Investment Companies (OEICs)/Unit Trusts. He also had a cash  
holding. The AR initially recommended  funding  the IIB with 5% withdrawals from the four 
IBs, liquidations from the two OEICs up to the point  where his maximum CGT allowance  was 
used, liquidation of 3 poor performing ISAs he held and part of the cash  holding; he 
recommended the benefits of the IIB wrapper; he recommended Rathbones as a DFM; and 
he recommended  fund switches within two of the IBs (because the view was taken that one 
lacked diversification  and the other was below  Mr S risk profile).
After Mr S change of mind  about the IHT objective   the AR re-presented his advice as 
follows:
He retained the recommendation  to make fund switches within two of the IBs.
He recommended placing all of the ISAs  and OEICs under Rathbones discretionary 
management; and liquidating enough  from the OEIC transfer in order to utilise Mr S 
ISA allowance  for the 2015/16 year.
He referred to alternatives  and to reasons why he discounted some of them.
As stated earlier, Mr S change of mind revised the basis for the advice he sought, so I 
consider that it was reasonable for the AR to review and re-present his recommendations. 
The IIB had mainly been intended to address the IHT objective, which was previously linked 
to the investment objective. His change of mind separated it from the investment objective 
so I do not consider it unreasonable that it no longer featured in the re-presented advice. 
Given its absence,  the task that remained was to consider what to do with the pre-existing 
investments. 
The ARs concerns  about the two IBs were  unaffected  by the revised advice basis,  so his 
recommendation in this respect was reasonably retained. It was not unreasonable  for him to 
identify and address  issues  about  a lack of diversity and alignment with Mr S risk profile. 
Mr S need  for a DFM  was also unaffected by the revised advice basis.  The ARs 
recommendation of Rathbones was well reasoned,  the suitability reports confirm  that 
alternatives were considered and I have not seen evidence to establish  that Rathbones was 
an unsuitable recommendation.  I acknowledge  that another  firm(s)  could possibly  have been  
suitable  or, if Mr S believes, more suitable   but that does not automatically mean the 
recommendation of Rathbones was unsuitable.  It also does not mean that the AR was 
obliged to arrange meetings between Mr S and such  alternative firms before a selection was 
made.
Ref: DRN21607248I consider that, given  Mr S need for active discretionary management of his investments, the 
recommendation of placing  his ISAs  and OEICs under Rathbones DFM service was 
suitable. The merits of the ISA wrappers  and of OEICs were addressed in the ARs advice 
and costs and charges  were also clearly explained. 
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Mr S was given unsuitable advice about his 
investments and about their management.
Issues 3 and 4
Rathbones Client Agreement and Profile document is signed by Mr S and dated September 
2015. It confirms that Rathbones regarded his objective as long-term  growth with 
reinvestment of income for this purpose; that his risk profile was medium;  that he was to 
receive quarterly valuations of his portfolio; and that he was to have access  to Rathbones 
online service. 
These elements  match Mr S investor profile  and objectives (including his wish to have 
insight into how his portfolio was performing),  as agreed between  him and the AR. I 
appreciate that Rathbones did not replicate the high/medium  risk profile title. It used a 
medium risk profile and defined it as follows:
A medium  risk portfolio  will aim over time to achieve  returns  above  the rate of 
inflation  and should  reflect  the majority  of the fluctuation  in value  of major  equity  
markets.
A medium  risk portfolio  will differ  from a lower  risk portfolio  by being  less diversified  
by asset  classes  and/or  having  greater  exposure  to equities,  which  may include  
shares  in smaller  and medium-sized  companies  and/or  emerg111g  markets.
A medium  risk portfolio  would  be suitable  for investors  with a medium  time horizon  and 
capacity  to accept  a
temporary or, rarely,  permanent capital loss.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that this was broadly similar to how Mr S high/medium  
risk profile had been defined (with  the AR) and to his expressions about his objective  both 
quoted above.
Available evidence  also supports Tenets description about the proposal and subsequent 
communications from Rathbones that were available  to Mr S and about his arrangement with 
Rathbones.
Overall and in light of the aforementioned evidence, there is a lack of support for the 
allegation that the AR misdirected Rathbones about  Mr S investor profile and/or about how 
his portfolio was to be managed. I also consider that there  is a lack of support for the 
allegation that the AR failed to monitor his portfolio whilst under Rathbones management.  
The balance of available evidence matches what Tenet has described with regards to issue  
4 (as summarised in the background section above).  The same can be said with regards to 
issue 3. As such, the AR appears to have  provided  the level of monitoring (of the portfolio) 
and ongoing  work  for and engagement with Mr S that he was supposed to provide. 
The terms of Rathbones DFM service  were known to and agreed by Mr S  including the 
level(s) of access he would have to his portfolio and to Rathbones. In the context of a 
Ref: DRN21607249discretionarily managed  portfolio,  I do not consider those terms to have been unreasonable.  
Such management is largely defined at the outset, by the mandate given to the DFM, and I 
have already concluded that the AR did not misdirect Rathbones in this respect; and that 
Rathbones reflected  the correct mandate in its agreement with Mr S. Mindful of this, and of 
the monitoring role the AR continued to have over the portfolio, I am not persuaded that Mr S 
was unduly denied an earlier meeting with Rathbones.
The alleged regulatory breaches
Mr S representative has made  competent submissions about specific  regulatory breaches 
alleged against  the AR (and therefore  Tenet).  Mr S and his representative will be aware that 
this service is not the industry regulator, so it is not within our remit to treat regulatory 
breaches in isolation   that is a matter primarily for the regulator.
It is not uncommon for complaints to this service to be coupled  with allegations of regulatory 
breaches  deemed  by the complainant(s) to be relevant to the complaint  but the main and 
underlying matter will be the complaint(s).  If the main and substantive  issues in the 
complaint are not upheld  as is the case, given  my findings above, for Mr S complaint  the 
matter is usually concluded on that note.  I consider that this applies in Mr S case.  If he and 
his representative  retain  the view that specific regulatory breaches  were  committed by the 
AR/Tenet, irrespective of the outcome of his complaint, they retain discretion to pursue that 
with the regulator.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 August 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2160724