K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr M says FICL mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1996. The card and 
PPI were taken out in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional  and get his consent before adding 
PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold. FICL has sent in a copy  of 
Mr Ms store card application. The box was ticked to say he wants PPI and Mr M has signed 
the application.
Mr M says he didnt  put the tick on the form. He says that the writing on the form is shaky  
and the tick appears  to be in the same  handwriting  as the shop workers.
I cant know if Mr M inserted this tick on the form. Even if he didnt, I cant  know if the shop 
worker inserted it following a discussion with Mr M and because  Mr M said at the time he 
wanted PPI.
The paperwork makes it clear that PPI is an optional and separate  product and the form is a 
relatively short one. So, I think even in a busy store, Mr M couldve read the form before he 
signed it.
I dont have enough to fairly conclude that PPI was selected without Mr Ms consent or 
knowledge. I think it just as likely that he decided to take PPI, and thats why the tick was 
added. So, I cant  fairly  uphold  Mr Ms complaint  on this ground. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got clear information so he could make and informed choice 
and decide if he wanted to buy it.
Ref: DRN20954392Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mr M has told us he wouldve got six months worth of full pay and six months  worth  of 
half pay from work. He said that he also had around three months  worth  of savings and that 
his parents couldve helped out. The PPI would have paid on top of Mr Ms sick pay, possibly 
for longer than his work related benefits. The PPI wouldve also paid out if he voluntarily lost 
his job. I cant see that his other means  clearly made the policy inappropriate for him. Whilst 
I accept that his parents may have wanted  to help out, help of this kind cant  always be 
guaranteed when the time comes. So, overall, I still think PPI could have provided him with a 
valuable benefit.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. As he couldve  benefitted  from 
everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected his decision  take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable and he 
couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Mr M has lost out because  of anything that 
FICL did wrong, so I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr M has said, but this doesnt change my view.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095439