K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct) sold him a personal  loan he 
couldnt afford.
background
When Mr M took the loan,1 in August 2017, he already had another  personal loan, seven 
payday loans,  nine credit  cards, and two overdrafts. He says First Direct  did not check his 
credit file, and if it had he would have seen  these loans. The payday loans should have 
made First Direct realise that he was already overstretched and in financial difficulty, and 
that First Direct should not have lent to him. He says the loan pushed him further into debt, 
and he was forced to seek  assistance  from a debt advice charity. He entered into a debt 
management plan.  He complained and asked for the loan to be written off and for a refund of 
al interest paid.
First Direct  did not accept it had done anything wrong. It said it had checked Mr Ms credit  
file, and it had shown no cause for concern. It had also checked Mr Ms income  and 
expenditure, and hed had a disposable income  of £1,500 a month. It said the loan had been 
used to settle another loan and to repay  four payday loans, so it wasnt all new borrowing. It 
denied that the loan had been mis-sold. It added that when Mr M had applied  for two more  
loans the next month, First Direct  had declined  both applications, partly because  he had 
taken out a new payday loan on the same  day as he made  the second of these rejected 
applications. The day after that, First Direct  had restricted Mr Ms credit card, and discussed 
his financial position  with him. It said it would not lend to him anymore.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said Mr Ms credit  file had shown that he 
had been repaying his loans, and that the loan was to consolidate  his debts. So he said First 
Direct had had no reason to decline his loan application. Mr M had then maintained his loan 
repayments for the next 13 months. So that suggested that the loan had not been 
unaffordable when  it was sold, but that Mr M had got into difficulty  later on due to a change  
in his circumstances.
Mr M said it was First Directs policy not to lend to someone who had taken a payday loan in 
the last six months.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Ive seen First Directs internal notes which show that it knew  about Mr Ms payday loans 
when it considered his loan application.  So I accept that it did take his credit  history into 
account. I have  seen Mr Ms credit file too. It only shows one default before he took this loan, 
and he settled it in full in February 2017,  half a year before he applied  for this loan. It shows  
several credit cards, but they all had good  payment histories up to the time of this loan (apart  
from the default Ive just mentioned). It only shows one payday loan, which is unexpected, 
but this loan allowed him to settle  four such loans, and another  personal loan, so it was not 
all new borrowing.
1 Mr M has described  the loan as a loan of £10,000. It was actually a loan of £16,300.  Most of the 
difference was used  to settle an earlier loan.
Ref: DRN22394892As Ive said above,  Mr M had a significant  disposable income, which  far exceeded his 
contractual repayments on this loan. He could even  have  afforded  to repay the loan in less 
than the four years allowed, if hed wanted  to. He maintained his contractual  repayments for 
a year.  So I dont  think this loan is the reason he fell into difficulty, or that it was unaffordable,  
or that First Direct acted irresponsibly in lending it to him. I am reinforced in that view by the 
fact that First Direct did not lend to him again, when he asked to borrow more very soon  
afterwards.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2239489