K820x#14Complaint
Mr O is the administrator of the estate of the late Mrs O. He has complained that TSB Bank 
Plc allowed his brother to withdraw money  fraudulently from the late Mrs Os accounts.
Background
The late Mrs O had lived with dementia  since 2010  before she sadly passed away in June 
2018. Mr O, her son, was appointed as administrator of her estate  in October 2019.
In July 2018, Mr O reported his mothers  death to TSB. But, unbeknownst to him, his brother 
had already registered her death with the bank. Mr O also discovered that his brother had 
been added  as a third party to the late Mrs Os account in 2013, that he had withdrawn  the 
remaining funds after her death and that the bank had closed her two accounts.
Mr O made  several attempts to get statements for the accounts. When  he eventually  
received the statements, he was surprised  to see cash withdrawals and purchases,  which he 
said his mother couldnt have made.  He also said the address, which TSB had for her, was 
not the care home address where  she was residing.  
Mr O raised a fraud complaint with TSB. He believes his brother was helping  himself  to their 
mothers account and had withdrawn approximately £30,000, without his mothers consent.  
He said TSB should have  done more to protect their mother as an elderly  and vulnerable 
customer. He was also unhappy with the service  he had received from TSB when he tried to 
get information about the accounts.  
TSB responded to say it had followed its procedures  when it added  his brother to the 
account and hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had controls in place to monitor  accounts 
but, equally, it was the accountholders responsibility  to manage their own accounts. In this 
case, it didnt  know  about Mrs Os health.  Had it been told about her dementia, it said it 
would have asked  her to appoint  an attorney.
In relation to the cash withdrawals, it said this was a dispute within  the family and 
left it to Mr O to reach his own conclusions  on how the money was spent.
However, it acknowledged that there had been  a delay in providing him with the bank 
statements and awarded him £375  for any distress  and inconvenience caused and £50 for 
his phone and petrol costs.
Mr O didnt think this was fair, so he asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt recommend upholding it because:
TSB didnt know about Mrs Os dementia  and couldnt be expected to know
there was nothing suggesting  the bank had added the brother as a third party  to the 
account without  Mrs Os consent, or that she lacked mental  capacity to give such 
consent
TSB didnt need proof of address to change  an address.
The investigator also thought that the compensation offer of £375  and £50 was a fair and 
reasonable sum for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its poor service and in line 
with our approach.
Ref: DRN25577062Mr O didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said his mother  wouldnt have 
understood the third-party mandate form that she had signed. He believes that, at the very 
least, banks should check with their older customers every  year or two to ensure they are 
capable of making financial decisions and those who have signed third party mandates 
should be checked
He also questioned why TSB allowed his brother online access. He said it was unusual for a 
customer of his mothers age to have an e savings  account. He also asked how TSB could 
change the address under the anti-money  laundering  regulations without asking for proof of 
address. 
Mr O has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Id like to start by passing on my condolences to Mr O. It cant be easy  for him to make  this 
complaint about  his brothers actions.
But Im afraid I dont have  good news for him. My review of the evidence  has led me to the 
same overall conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain  how Ive reached my decision.
Mr O is unhappy that TSB added  his brother to his mothers account as a third party.  But 
essentially, his complaint  is that this allowed his brother to take approximately £30,000  from 
their mothers account without her consent.  So, he is complaining  about  unauthorised 
transactions on the two accounts.  My first task, therefore, is to determine whether the cash  
withdrawals and purchases were unauthorised (which I will go on to explain) and then I need 
to consider whether there were any signs of financial abuse or fraud or a failure  by TSB to 
protect Mrs Os accounts. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2009 and 2018  and with the terms  and conditions of the customers  
account. And I have  taken  that into account when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.
The Payment Services Regulations also require  banks to refund  any payments which a 
customer didnt authorise.  So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider  is whether the customer made  the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we wouldnt generally  
ask the bank to refund  them.
But the regulations are not the only consideration.
Ref: DRN25577063Regulated firms like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, where a bank  should,  in my opinion, fairly  and 
reasonably take additional  steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, 
or in some cases decline to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm.  
I have noted the BSI Code came into effect  after some  of the transactions on the accounts.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  under the regulations 
and whether it should have done  more than it did.
So, to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions,  as 
well as what both TSB and Mr O have told us. 
The third-party mandate form is no longer  available.  However, TSB told us the brother was 
granted third party access on 24 January 2013 at a meeting in branch with him and Mrs O, 
who would  have signed the mandate form there and then. TSB also said its staff would have 
explained that being a third party meant  he could  act on her behalf  in branch. As this is 
industry practice and I see no reason why TSB wouldnt have followed this process. 
TSB said the mandate didnt  allow the brother to authorise transactions through telephone  
banking or internet banking. He needed to go into branch to authorise transactions or make 
changes to her account. However, the banks  own contact notes show  that an appointment 
was made  for him to register  for internet & phone  bank access after the January meeting. I 
cant see that a meeting  took place. The only statements I have go back to 2016. I cant see 
any online  transactions. They are all ATM cash withdrawals or purchases  so this suggests  
he had access to Mrs Os bank cards  and PIN.
TSB confirmed that Mrs O also authorised it to change the address at this meeting. It said 
theres no requirement for a customer to provide evidence of their new address.  
I understand Mrs O was diagnosed with dementia  as early as 2010 but the only supporting 
evidence we have  are hospital  discharge  notes for 2014. I accept she was probably living  
with the condition earlier. But I have no evidence of its severity in 2013.  However,  and 
crucially, TSB didnt know about her dementia, and I think it would have been inappropriate 
Ref: DRN25577064for it to make  assumptions about  her mental  capacity based  on her age alone.  And I have no 
evidence of her mental state or capacity when she attended the branch in 2013.
So, I can only conclude that when the third-party mandate was executed,  there was no 
reason for TSB to question Mrs Os understanding of what  she was doing. 
Im afraid that under the regulations, if the brother was added as a third party then Mrs O is 
treated as having  given authority or apparent authority to him to make  transactions  on the 
account. I think its more  likely  than not that her son had taken control of her finances. 
However, TSB can still hold the estate liable for the transactions, even if she didnt  know 
about them.
If there were obvious signs of financial abuse  or fraud which TSB failed to act on, then I may 
consider whether its fair and reasonable for it to refund some or all the disputed  
transactions, despite what the regulations say.
Ive referred above  to the banks general  duty to act with due skill, care and diligence  and to 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers.  These  are general duties only.  There are no 
specific requirements and no obligation on banks to check in with older  consumers. I can 
see many  benefits of doing  so but, equally, some customers might find it offensive and 
intrusive. So, I cant say TSB should  have done  this.
However, I can look at the transactions and consider  whether there was anything  unusual or 
out of character which should have  raised  suspicions  with TSB. Ive looked  at the bank 
statements for her current account  and flexible savings account. There  are regular ATM 
cash withdrawals, sometimes for as much as £300  and isolated  purchases from merchants 
which I dont believe Mrs O would have made for herself e.g. from Sports Direct and train 
fares but its unlikely  TSBs systems would have picked up these transactions  because they 
are ordinary ones   maybe not for Mrs O but in general. Also, the pattern of spending was 
the same  for two years  or more. There was no spending on high value goods. The accounts 
were never overdrawn. In these circumstances, I dont there were obvious  signs of fraud or 
financial abuse.
Its also possible Mrs O benefited from some of the money that was withdrawn. I accept she 
probably had few needs, especially as she was living in a care home,  but we simply cannot  
know how the money was spent.  Only the brother  would  know, and he is unlikely  to co-
operate. I note the balance in the savings account  was used for the funeral expenses, so he 
did it use it appropriately. Equally, I cant rule out the possibility that she wanted  to give 
some money to her son.
Im afraid that ultimately, if a customer starts to lose mental capacity,  then it is the 
responsibility of the next of kin to let banks know. A bank cant  be expected to make 
assumptions about a customers  health.
For all these reasons, I dont consider that TSB has done anything wrong or that the estate 
is entitled to a refund of the disputed transactions.
As Ive already  mentioned,  TSB said it changed  the address at Mrs Os request  at the 
meeting in January 2013. It says it didnt ask for proof of the address and this seems 
reasonable given that the instruction came directly  from the customer. 
Ref: DRN25577065Ive considered the service complaint and I can see there were delays. I dont think  TSB 
provided a good  service  to Mr O as next of kin and a bereaved son. However,  I agree that its 
offer of £375 for any distress and inconvenience  caused and £50 for his phone and petrol 
costs is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I am very sorry  this isnt the outcome Mr O was hoping for and I am conscious that it will be 
an unwelcome one, but I hope the reasons for my decision  are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557706