K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that the vehicle  she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by RCI Financial Services Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. She wants her deposit 
refunded.
background
Miss S tells us she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call W in May 2018. At this time 
she says she was employed by W. Over the following few months Miss S states she found  
the vehicle had several faults. This included brake  pads; air flow sensor;  defective  tyre; paint 
flaking; misaligned  bonnet  and damaged  grille.  She also says the odometer showed the 
vehicle when supplied  had covered around  1,000  more miles than stated on the agreement. 
Miss S tells us she spoke  with her manager at W about rejecting the vehicle and also notified  
RCI of this intention.  But she states that her manager suggested an alternative was for W to 
buy back the vehicle  and settle  the finance.  Miss S says she agreed to this believing  it would  
include the return of her deposit. She informs us she left Ws employment at the end of 
October 2018 but hasnt had her deposit returned.
RCI told us that it was satisfied that during the time the agreement  had been in force, W had 
acted appropriately  to address Miss S concerns with the vehicle at its own cost. And that the 
terms of the subsequent settlement were  completed between her and W. It said any dispute 
about the deposit should be taken up with W.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said she didnt  think  
there was sufficient information to show the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  And when  the vehicle was repurchased  by W she said the price  on the 
invoice was that agreed by the parties. Shed seen no information to show  the deposit  would 
be refunded by W.
Miss S didnt agree with this outcome  and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss S experienced problems with this vehicle in the relatively short  period  it 
was in her possession. Unfortunately, things sometimes  go wrong and with used vehicles 
the risk is that much greater.
Miss S hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. RCI supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. It would also be responsible for 
any misrepresentation by the dealer (W) in relation to the vehicle at the time of supply.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA). This states  that in order to conform to 
contract goods have  to be of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. And satisfactory  
quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  
having regard  for issues which can include but are not limited to the age of the goods and 
previous use.
Ref: DRN29079102Where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required 
to reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
During the course of her complaint Miss S has raised a number  of issues.  But I think these 
can be characterised as falling into two main categories. Namely  whether the vehicle  was 
misrepresented and if it was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
She feels the vehicle  was misrepresented in that the mileage when  supplied  was in excess 
of that shown on the agreement. And that the vehicle hadnt undergone any suitable pre-sale 
check as shed been promised.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as the result of the misrepresentation.
Ive seen an internal  invoice  dated 9 April 2018 which  shows a used vehicle preparation 
check was undertaken.  So the fact that this may not show on the internal computerised  
systems does not mean it wasnt done.  And the vehicle  passed an MOT on the same  date.
There does appear  to be a discrepancy in the mileage as the MOT shows  a reading of 
35,058 whereas the agreement and sales invoice  records  34,000  miles.  However,  I dont 
think this amounts to a misrepresentation.  Miss S knew about the difference at the time she 
acquired the vehicle as shes supplied  a screen  shot of the dashboard mileage. So if it had 
been matter of serious concern Id have expected her to reject  the vehicle at that time.
Many of the other  issues  with the vehicle  about which  Miss S complains can be fairly  
categorised as wear  and tear issues.  Brakes and tyres are serviceable items  and it would 
normally be for the consumer to meet  the cost of any replacement. As the vehicle passed its 
MOT shortly before supply to Miss S Ive not seen anything  to show  these  items  were 
defective when  supplied. And I understand that W met the cost of repairs for these items as 
well as the air flow sensor.
The other items which Miss S identified were  reported to RCI and/or W more than 30 days 
after supply. So the period for the short  term right to reject contained within the CRA  had 
passed. If there were  any other issues, RCI would have been entitled to have the chance  to 
repair them.  As it received  the complaint on1 October 2018 and the vehicle was sold on 16 
October, it didnt have  sufficient time to respond  before  the sale. Not only that but Ive not 
seen sufficient information to show there were faults  for which  RCI wouldve been  
responsible. The vehicle health  check, dated  5 September 2018, supplied  by Miss S 
indicates the vehicle needed  a new grille. But it doesnt indicate why this was necessary or if 
the cause was present at the point of supply. So Im unable to say the vehicle  wasnt  of 
satisfactory when supplied.
Although Miss S notified RCI of her wish to reject the vehicle at the start of October  2018  
she later decided to accept Ws offer to repurchase the vehicle and settle the outstanding  
finance. RCI wasnt a party  to this arrangement other than that it was entitled to receive the 
balance due on the agreement. So the issue of whether  the deal included the refunding of 
the deposit is not something for which RCI would be liable. If Miss S thinks  that the terms of 
the repurchase  were misrepresented by W - or that it didnt fulfil any contractual obligation 
regarding the deposit - then she would need to pursue any action she may have against W. 
But as W is not a party to this complaint its not something I can look at.
Ref: DRN29079103I also understand that for some  time Miss S was unable to use the vehicle whilst it awaited  
repairs. Its not entirely clear exactly how long the vehicle was unavailable and whether this 
was solely  due to awaiting repairs. Notes from W suggested thered been some problem with 
Miss S insurance being cancelled. But I dont think I need to make  any specific findings 
about any period  of loss of use in order to reach  my decision.
By the time the vehicle  came to be sold the mileage was stated on the repurchase document  
to be 39,521 miles. Although this is inconsistent with an earlier  health  check in September 
which recorded the odometer reading as 39,688. Either  way it shows the vehicle had 
covered over 4,000 in the five months Miss S had use of the vehicle. As the agreement  was 
for 6,000 miles per year I think shes had fair use. Also,  the repairs  undertaken were for 
serviceable items - which are not the responsibility of RCI - so I shant be asking it to do 
anything more.
In summary,  theres insufficient information to show the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Miss S. But in any event the subsequent sale of the vehicle meant RCI 
wasnt given the chance to respond to her request  to reject the vehicle or possibly agree to 
have it repaired if it was later established  otherwise. RCI wasnt directly a party  to the terms 
on which the vehicle  was sold to W. So its not responsible  for issues  arising out of that 
transaction.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss S, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2907910