K821x#15complaint
Miss S says that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 13 instalment loans  for Miss S between April 2017 and July 2018.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued 
to lend to Miss S from loan 6 onwards as she was showing signs  of being persistently reliant 
on this type of credit and essentially using the loans to supplement her income. The 
adjudicator thought that by this point Sunny should have realised that further borrowing 
wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that Sunny  put things right for Miss S by 
refunding all interest and charges incurred on loans  6 to 13.
 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  
Miss S was persistently relying on the credit. It said that Miss S paid only a small amount of 
interest over the time of the borrowing because she paid the loans off early. There was no 
evidence that Miss S was in difficulty or suffered any detriment.
Sunny asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN28588242There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss S could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss S. It asked Miss S for 
details of her income and normal  expenditure. And Sunny  carried out checks  on Miss Ss 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Miss S loans 1 to 5 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Miss S hasnt raised  any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to five, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Ss lending with Sunny to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Miss S.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ss case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
when Miss S took out loan six, shed been borrowing almost continually  and wasnt 
making any inroads  in to the amount that she owed. The loans  were  instalment loans 
but Miss S sometimes repaid her loans early and then took loans shortly  afterwards. 
This wasnt  how instalment loans  should usually work. I think this pattern of lending 
shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Miss S was having problems managing 
her money. 
I dont agree with Sunny  that Miss S didnt suffer any detriment as a result of this lending. I 
think that Miss S lost out because  Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
these loans  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit  intended for short term use over an extended  period  of time.
Ref: DRN28588243the number of loans,  combined with the total length of time Miss S had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Miss S in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ss complaint about  loans six to 13.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Miss S paid on loans six to 13;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to 13 should be removed from 
Miss Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2858824