K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr J has been represented by others during  this case but for ease I will refer to Mr J 
throughout this decision.
Mr J took receipt of a used car in late October  2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. He says that when he test drove the car it was apparent 
that a parking sensor wasnt working properly and he says that VWFS  failed to repair  that 
fault before  he took receipt of the car.
He returned the car to be repaired on 18 January 2018 but the repair took longer than 
expected. The dealership  say the car was ready for collection  on 31 January but Mr J 
doesnt appear to have  collected it until March and disputes that he was told it was ready.
Mr J said that as there was a fault with the car that wasnt fixed  he should be allowed to 
reject the vehicle and terminate  his finance  agreement with VWFS.
But VWFS disagreed. They said that legislation allowed them an opportunity to repair any 
fault and theyd done that. So they didnt  think theyd done anything  wrong.
But Mr J disagreed and he referred his complaint  to this service where our investigator  
provided an opinion.  She agreed with VWFS that they were entitled to repair  the car but she 
thought it had taken too long. She thought  it was clear Mr J had been without his vehicle for 
at least a month and that no courtesy car had been provided. So she proposed that VWFS 
refund two monthly instalments  of Mr Js finance  agreement to him to resolve the matter.
VWFS agreed to this resolution but Mr J didnt  and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr J so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN24619602Mr J acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
I think its clear  that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply and in those  
circumstances the relevant  law allows VWFS  one opportunity to repair the problem. Im 
persuaded that this repair was done in late January 2018 when the dealership says it was. I 
say that because Ive not found Mr Js version of events as compelling. He says he wasnt  
told the car was awaiting collection but its clear from VWFSs final response  letter  that he 
was. So I think its most  likely  the car was available at some point prior to the VWFSs final 
response in March 2018 and, in the absence of any other proposed dates, Im persuaded it 
was most likely to have been available for collection on 31 January 2018.
But its also clear that Mr J has been  unnecessarily inconvenienced. There  appears  no 
dispute that the faulty sensor was identified during the test drive and that a promise  was 
made to remedy it before  Mr J took receipt  of the car. Mr J has evidently had to make trips to 
the dealership  to have the issue fixed and the repairs  appear to have been unduly  delayed. 
In the circumstances I therefore think  he should  be compensated for the lack of use hes had 
of the vehicle and, all things considered, I would agree  with the investigator that VWFS  
should refund two monthly instalments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to refund two monthly  finance instalments in recognition of the lack of 
use Mr J has had from the car during the repairs that have  been  necessary.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2461960