K820x#14Complaint
Ms Z complains she was mis-sold an education programme financed by a loan with Omni 
Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni), and that the loan itself was irresponsibly lent.
Background
In November 2017 Ms Z entered  into a loan agreement with Omni for £2,842  for the 
purchase of an childrens Maths and English course supplied  by a company I will call X, 
which was the broker of the loan agreement.
The loan was intended to last for 48 months  and was interest free, with monthly  repayments  
of £59.60. 
Ms Z contacted Omni in August 2018 as she was struggling to make her repayments. She 
ended up making  a complaint which could be summarised as follows:
X had mis-sold the course  and the loan to her. They hadnt explained she was taking  
out a loan, and had falsely  told her that she could cancel  the whole thing at any time 
if the course turned out not to be suitable.
The course wasnt suitable for her daughter, who was struggling to understand it.
There had been technical problems with a laptop supplied by X as part of the deal for 
the course.
She couldnt afford the loan and this hadnt been properly checked.
Omni didnt  agree with the complaint. It said it thought  things had been  made  clear  to Ms Z 
about the terms of the sale and cancellation  provisions,  and that she had been  aware  she 
was taking out a loan.  It denied it had lent to her irresponsibly.
Ms Z was dissatisfied with Omnis response so she brought her complaint to this service for 
an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked at the evidence  and originally  
thought it was likely Ms Z had understood at the time that she had only 14 days  to cancel, 
and could not cancel whenever  she wanted.  She was also not convinced that the course  
was unsuitable  for Ms Zs daughter, or that Omni had lent to Ms Z irresponsibly. However, 
she did initially conclude X had probably  not explained to Ms Z that she was taking out a 
loan, as the paperwork wasnt very clear and it appears Ms Z hadnt wanted to take out 
credit.
Omni disagreed and provided a recording of a telephone call between  it and Ms Z in April 
2018. In this call Omni  had explained to Ms Z that the payments  coming  from her bank  
account were for a loan she taken out for X. Ms Z had not expressed any surprise  that she 
had a loan for X on the phone call, so our investigator changed her point  of view and thought  
it was likely Ms Z was aware that she had signed  up for a loan.
Ms Z didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The case  was passed to me to 
deal with. I thought a more thorough assessment  needed to be made of whether Omni had 
lent to Ms Z responsibly, so I requested further  information from both parties  and asked them 
to answer further  questions. I asked Ms Z for some more information about her financial 
circumstances at the time she signed up for the programme, while I challenged Omni to 
Ref: DRN25445652explain in more detail  how it had decided the loan was affordable  for Ms Z, as I was minded 
to say it should have carried out further checks.  I have now received all the answers I asked 
for.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Zs complaint concerns two general  areas: Omnis responsibilities which  derive from the 
actions of X and the programme she bought (the connected lender liability  issues), and 
Omnis responsibilities  in respect of the loan itself (the affordability issues). I will deal with 
them separately.
The connected lender liability issues
The loan with Omni was sold by X, and it is X who Ms Z says misled her about the 
cancellation period and the fact she was using  a loan to pay for the course.  This complaint is 
about Omni, so I will outline how it is that Omni  can be held responsible for the way the loan 
and the course  were  sold when it was not, itself, the seller.
Ms Zs loan with Omni  is regulated by the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). This act 
contains provisions  which give a degree of protection to consumers where they have 
purchased goods  or services with certain  types of credit. Ms Zs loan is of a type which 
qualifies for the protection offered by sections  56 and 75 of the CCA.
Section 56 has the effect of making  X the agent of Omni for the purpose of the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Ms Z entering into the loan agreement. In broad terms, this 
means Omni  can be held responsible for the acts or omissions of X in relation to the sale of 
the loan to Ms Z. In other words, Omni must  accept  responsibility for the things X said or did 
during the sales  process.
Section 75 allows Ms Z to make a like claim against Omni in respect  of any breach of 
contract by X, or misrepresentation by X in relation to the purchase  of the course. A breach 
of contract  could be a breach of an explicit contractual term or one which  is treated as being 
included in the contract due to, for example, legislation saying that it must be.
A key piece of legislation in Ms Zs case is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).  My 
analysis of the facts  of Ms Zs case leads  me to conclude her contract with X was primarily a 
contract for digital content. The CRA  says the following terms are treated as being included 
in this kind of contract with Ms Z: 
Any digital content will be of satisfactory quality, this being  the standard a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory, taking into account the price,  description and 
other relevant  circumstances.
Due to the effect  of section 75, Ms Z could hold Omni liable if X failed to adhere to these 
terms, or to any of the explicit  contractual terms it had agreed to with Ms Z.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  someone  relies on when taking a 
decision which is to their advantage. So if X had told Ms Z that she could cancel at any time 
Ref: DRN25445653when this wasnt true, and she decided to sign up on that basis,  then this could  be a 
misrepresentation. 
Ive carefully considered  the documents which are said to date from the point of sale. These 
include various enrolment documents along with the loan agreement itself and supporting 
paperwork. Nearly all of this paperwork appears to have been digital, and signed with a tick 
or a typed signature  (albeit in a handwriting-like  font). Ms Z says she doesnt  recall signing 
any of the digital documents.
There was also one hand-signed document which was referred  to as a Customer 
Clarification and Satisfaction Form.  Ms Z accepts she signed this document. It also appears  
she ticked boxes next to a list of statements  on this form to indicate her understanding and 
agreement to those  statements.
I note the statements included words to the effect that Ms Z was paying for the programme 
by finance, that she had only 14 days to cancel  from the date of purchase,  and that she 
had electronically  signed a finance agreement. I agree  that this document could have been 
a bit clearer. In particular I think it could have referred to a loan,  rather  than finance, as 
the latter could  be considered an ambiguous term. 
I appreciate Ms Z says she was not told verbally  that she was taking out a loan and received 
reassurances that she could cancel at any time. The paperwork she signed indicates the 
opposite regarding cancellation, that in fact she only had 14 days to do so. This is such  a 
significant difference from what Ms Z says she was told that I think  it would have been 
reasonable to obtain some written confirmation  that her cancellation  rights  different from 
what she had signed for. Unfortunately, she did not, and I am led to a conclusion, like our 
investigator, that Ms Z ought to have been  aware  that she had only 14 days  to cancel from 
the date of sale. I dont  think the cancellation  period was misrepresented  to her.
I also agree  with our investigators conclusions regarding Ms Zs knowledge that she was 
signing up for a loan agreement. Although I think the paperwork  could  have been  a little 
clearer, Ms Zs reaction  when Omni  explained the payments were for a loan for X suggests 
she was aware, and not unhappy, that she had taken out a loan to pay for the programme. 
Its difficult for me to conclude she was misled into believing, at the time of the purchase, that 
she was signing up for something else. So I dont think the financial arrangements  were 
misrepresented either.
Problems with the programme and laptop
Ms Z has said the programme was unsuitable  for her daughter, that it hadnt  engaged her 
and that there were  parts she didnt understand. 
Unfortunately, the evidence on this point is rather unclear and lacking in detail. While I dont 
doubt what Ms Z is saying   that her daughter  had some  trouble with the course  and didnt 
find it engaging   Ive not seen evidence which suggests to me that this is because there 
was some kind of problem with the course.  I would  need to be able to find that the course  
content was not satisfactory quality according to the criteria I outlined  earlier  in this 
decision, for me to be able to say there  had been a breach  of contract  for which  Omni is 
liable to Ms Z. Because very little evidence has been provided, Im unable  to draw that 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN25445654Regarding the laptop, X says that it was not responsible for this if it went wrong  or developed 
faults. It points out that the Customer Clarification  and Satisfaction form says the laptop is 
supplied by another company (R) and Ms Z would need to speak to that company about 
any faults or other  issues with the laptop. X has also said the laptop  was a free gift and didnt 
form a part of the contract between it and Ms Z.
I am not sure how correct  that is, but ultimately  there appears to be little evidence  of these 
faults. So even  if I found, for example, that X was ultimately responsible  for the correct  
function of the laptop, Id be unable to say that there were issues present which meant  there 
had been a breach of contract  by X, for which Omni would be liable under section 75.
While I know Ms Z will be disappointed, I am unable to conclude that her complaint to Omni 
about its connected lender liability with respect  to her purchase  of the programme and entry  
into the loan, should be successful.
Affordability issues
I turn now to the question of Omnis decision to lend to Ms Z. The loan was regulated by the 
CCA and was subject  to the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCAs) rules for consumer credit, 
contained within its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). 
CONC outlined what was expected of Omni as a lender. One of its key responsibilities  under 
these rules was that it must lend responsibly.  Rather  than repeat exactly what the rules say, 
I have summarised them.  Omni was required  to:
Assess Ms Zs application for the loan to check if she would be able to afford to repay 
it in a sustainable way. Sustainable means  being able to make the repayments on 
time and out of income or savings, without having to realise security  or assets.
Ensure its assessment was proportionate  to the circumstances, taking into account 
the characteristics of the lending,  and Ms Zs financial  situation.
Assess whether  the commitments Ms Z was signing  up for were  likely to adversely 
impact her financial  situation.
The loan in this case was for £2,842 and was at 0% interest. The repayments were,  rounded  
up to the nearest pound,  £60 per month over 48 months. 
Omni was also aware of the following information about Ms Z, because either it or X (acting  
as its credit broker) had obtained  it as part of the lending process:
She had a declared annual income  of £12,000.
She had a credit score of 814 with a major  credit  reference agency.
She had about  £175 in debts outstanding elsewhere.
She had defaulted  on a credit commitment three years ago.
She had been  living  at the same address for 11 years, in a city known to have high 
living costs.
She had a child.
She was divorced.
She was self-employed.
Ref: DRN25445655I expressed some concerns to Omni that its checks had not been proportionate to the 
circumstances. I noted  that the loan represented  a monthly commitment  for several years,  
and that Ms Z had a low income. I further noted  that based on what it knew  about Ms Zs 
circumstances, Omni  should  have  considered  it likely she could  have significant  monthly  
expenditure. I thought it would have been  proportionate in the circumstances for Omni to 
estimate Ms Zs monthly expenditure and that, had it done  so, it might have had second 
thoughts about lending  to her.
Omni disagreed that it needed  to have asked questions about Ms Zs expenditure, at the 
time it lent to her. It pointed to changes in CONC which had come after its lending  decision 
and suggested  that this had brought in requirements  to be more rigorous when assessing 
whether a loan was affordable. Because its lending decision had been made before these 
changes, it didnt think there could have been anything wrong with what it had done. It then 
went on to say that it had reconstructed what it would have estimated Ms Zs expenditure to 
have been at the point  it agreed to lend to her, and noted that it would have believed  she 
could afford  to make her repayments.
I dont quite agree with Omnis assessment of its responsibilities.  While  later revisions to 
CONC made clearer what a lenders responsibilities  were, it didnt change them. The FCA 
made it clear  that the amendments Omni has referred to were intended to clarify what  [it] 
expect[s], rather than to change what it expected of lenders. It is certainly  not correct to say 
that the concept of affordability  risk did not exist prior to 1 November 2018, as Omni appears  
to have suggested.
I appreciate the monthly repayments  in Ms Zs case were small and she was not expected  to 
pay interest, but I remain of the view that Omni ought to have made some attempt at 
determining her regular  expenditure,  be that via asking her or by estimating it through  
statistical data. Omni  has now shown what its estimate of Ms Zs monthly  expenditure would 
have been. This comes  to approximately £560  per month. With a monthly income of about 
£1,000 per month this would have left her with a significant  pot of money  from which to repay 
her loan. My own estimates of Ms Zs monthly income and expenditure,  based  on 
information shes provided this service,  are that she had a monthly  income of around  £1,300  
and monthly expenditure of just under £1,100 per month. Having considered this carefully, I 
think this would also have  been  affordable, albeit marginally so.
My conclusion therefore is that although Omni may not have carried  out proportionate 
checks into Ms Zs ability to afford to repay  the loan in a sustainable  way, I dont think that it 
would have made a difference  to its decision to lend to her, had it in fact carried  out 
proportionate checks.
It appears Ms Zs difficulties in repaying  the loan have stemmed  primarily from employment  
issues which have caused her financial hardship. Although  I dont think  Omni was wrong to 
lend to her, I would remind it of its duty to treat Ms Z in a positive  and sympathetic manner in 
coming to an agreement to repay what she owes.
Ref: DRN25445656My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Ms Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2544565