K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint arises from his home emergency  insurance policy  with British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
background
In April 2017, Mr R made  a claim under his policy with British Gas as his washing machine 
was faulty. British Gas attended later that month,  the contractor said that hed have to come  
back with some parts. Around a week later, he returned to fit the parts. This required the 
washing machine  to be pulled out from under the units and disconnected from the supply 
pipes. The engineer therefore  had to turn off the water  supply  using a valve.  The engineer  
fitted the parts and the machine  was working again.
Mr R says that when he and his family came back from a holiday some time later, they 
noticed a damp smell in the kitchen and a water damaged  plinth. On investigation, Mr R says 
he found a large  volume of water underneath the kitchen unit and across the wooden floor in 
the kitchen and dining room. Mr Rs own engineer came and fixed  it. He told Mr R the leak 
was from the dishwasher valve and it is common  for these to fail after they have been used 
as it was when  the washing  machine was fixed.   
Mr R had to make a home insurance  claim for the damage to the property, which  he says 
involved around £10,000 worth of repairs.  Mr R is very unhappy about this. He had to pay a 
£350 excess under that policy and had to put up with huge upheaval while  the repairs  were 
carried out. This was especially difficult for his wife who suffers from a medical  condition  
effected by stress. This was all also in the lead up to Christmas. Mr R says this has led to his 
wife developing  a further condition resulting in her having to give up work all caused by this. 
Mr R says British Gas failed to respond to him about this and the work was started  by his 
home insurer. Eventually he says a British Gas manager attended  and Mr R says he 
confirmed that the failure of the valve is a common fault and that British Gas had not dealt 
with the complaint properly. Mr R says the manager told him that it British Gas had 
contacted him earlier "we could have  sorted  this all out for you", which  is an admission of its 
liability. Mr R therefore says the possibility of the valve failing after use should have been 
considered when repairing / reconnecting the machine  and full and rigorous tests  carried out. 
Mr R therefore says it was British Gas that disturbed  the valve and caused  the subsequent  
leak; and it did not respond to his complaint properly and ignored  questions he had raised.  
Mr R has asked British Gas to reimburse the home  insurance excess he had to pay, 
compensate him and review its policies. 
British Gas doesnt agree that it did anything  that caused the leak.  It has said it would only 
replace a part if it was faulty and in April 2017, the valve in question  was not faulty nor was it 
leaking. The valve  failed  five months  after its visit; it only turned the valve on and off, if the 
leak is because a spindle has broken then this is component failure.  
British Gas also says that its manager  made  no admission of liability  for the leak. The 
manager meant that by the time he was sent round, the repairs had been made and so he 
couldnt inspect  the appliance  and the damage. British Gas also says that Mr R had already 
made the claim under his home insurance policy and so the home insurer  could  
counterclaim against it, if it thought that it was liable. That insurer has not done so. 
Ref: DRN28506582One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld. 
She said there had been around  five months  between the repairs carried  out by British Gas 
and the leak from the washing machine. She said while the engineers reports  confirm the 
cause of the leak was the faulty  valve, there was no evidence that this was the fault of British  
Gas, or when the leak started. 
Mr R does not accept  the investigators assessment. He says: 
no one else has touched, altered or tampered with the area in question  where  the leak 
came from.
The British  Gas manager who attended  saw the faulty valve  and told him that this was a 
common fault with these parts. If its a common fault, which  he and Mr Rs own engineer  
both have confirmed,  why did the engineer who attended  not check  this piece of 
equipment properly to make sure it was working properly?
The same British  Gas Manager  then went on to say he wished his customer  service  
department had followed correct procedures and contacted him earlier "as we could 
have sorted this all out for you". This is critical.  Why would he have said this if he didnt  
think British Gas was culpable? It was an admission. 
The investigator has been very one-sided  and essentially  refuted anything hes provided 
and gone on the side of big business  as knowing more, this essentially calls into 
question his integrity and is essentially calling him a liar. 
She has also prejudged the next stage of the complaint and outcome.
He and others in the legal profession  cannot understand how the investigator reached  
her conclusions  given  the evidence provided  and that on balance  of probabilities British 
gas caused  the leak. 
The investigator asked him to contact the engineer that attended  but didnt say that he 
must have an engineer  who clearly stated British Gas did this. He would have thought  
this would  be part of our investigation.
Mr R did get a further letter from the engineer that fixed the leak. It said among other things, 
it was explained to me a representative  from  [British Gas] had attended a short time 
before, 1 to 2 weeks approx. from memory and removed the washing  machine from under 
the worktop to make  a repairwater  would have  had to be isolated at said control valve  for it 
to be removed and then re-connected  and water restored after the repair.  These valves are 
known to leak when  they have been  undisturbed for a period of time and then utilised. Given  
the age of the valve (easy to determine given it appearance) I personally would have 
considered it good practice to have the valve replacedAs this was not done the valve has 
leaked and caused extensive  damage.
The investigator did not consider that this changed anything and so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While we have an inquisitorial remit, in 
that we can ask each party for further  evidence and seek clarification about any issues  that 
arent clear, it is for the parties  to provide the evidence in support of their case. We would not 
normally obtain reports from third parties  in support  of one side or another.  
Ref: DRN28506583Mr R and his family  clearly had a lot of upheaval during the repairs  and I have no doubt that 
this would have  been stressful for them all and would  have impacted on his wifes condition. 
However, despite my natural sympathy  for their position, I agree with the investigator that 
there is not enough  evidence to be reasonably sure that the leak only happened because  
British Gass engineer  did something wrong while fixing the washing machine five months 
earlier in April 2017.
British Gass engineers  notes say that the machine requires tub rear, seal and element  
fitted parts tested  all ok. It is accepted that he would have turned the water to the machine 
off by the valve that later leaked.  Mr R says that British Gass  engineer  should  have 
rigorously checked  the valve to ensure it was working and his engineer told him it would  have 
been good practice to have changed  it (which  is confirmed  in the report as cited  above). 
There is no suggestion that the valve was leaking in April 2017. The valve was therefore  
apparently working  then,  so I am not convinced that British Gas needed to do any other  tests  
at that stage, or that they would have prevented the leak happening  five months later.  The 
valve was not leaking or faulty in April 2017  and there is no evidence  that the leak started 
immediately after this attendance. It leaked around  five months later. 
Mr Rs engineer says it would be good  practise to have changed the valve, as it is a common 
problem that valves fail after being  used  for the first time in a while.  He also says the British  
Gas manager  confirmed this but British Gas denies  this and says it would have had no 
reason to change  a valve that was not faulty.  I would  find Mr Rs engineers evidence about  
this more persuasive, if there had not been  such a long period of time between British  Gas 
using the valve  and the leak.  He thought  the repairs to the washing machine had taken place  
only a couple  of weeks earlier. So even if it might be likely that a valve will fail when its used 
after a long period of not being  used,  there  is no evidence that it did fail for this reason, given 
the period of time that had lapsed.    
Having considered everything, I am not persuaded that there  is sufficient evidence  that it 
was the fact the valve had been used which led to it failing five months later; or that this is 
something British Gas should have known was likely to happen and could  have prevented. I 
do not therefore consider that British  Gas is responsible for there leak or the resultant trouble 
and financial  loss this caused Mr R.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2850658