K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Waterloo Solutions  Limited, trading as UClaim4Me, are charging  her a 
fee for a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Ms P instructed Waterloo Solutions in December 2018 to make PPI claims on her behalf.  In 
February 2019 a claim against Lender N was successful, and Waterloo Solutions invoiced 
Ms P for their fee.
Ms P has complained that the claim wasnt successful because PPI had been mis-sold, but 
because of excessive  commission. She says she contacted  Lender  N about this herself, and 
she did the work on the claim. Because of this she doesnt think that Waterloo  Solutions  
should be charging her a fee.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that Waterloo Solutions  had acted reasonably. She found  that theyd 
submitted the claim to Lender N, and this claim was successful. She hadnt seen any 
evidence Ms P cancelled  her instructions with Waterloo Solutions  before the claim was 
successful and, because  of this, she felt their fee was due.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator  as she felt she did the work  on the claim, not 
Waterloo Solutions. So this case has been  passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive see the Letter of Authority Ms P signed to instruct  Waterloo  Solutions. This confirms they 
would act in respect of my/our claim for compensation for unreasonable  or erroneous 
Credit/Bank Charges,  a mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance Policy,  and/or any other 
financial irregularities. Im satisfied this allows Waterloo Solutions to make claims for Ms P 
where a PPI policy had been mis-sold  because  it was unsuitable and where  there was 
excessive and undisclosed commission.
Ive also seen Lender N acknowledged  the claim on 4 January 2019, and the claim was 
successful on 14 February.  The letter of 14 February, telling Ms P of the successful claim, 
refers to the claim being submitted by Waterloo Solutions and to a phone conversation 
Lender N had had with Ms P on 5 February.
Waterloo Solutions were  acting as Ms Ps representative in her claims. Because of this she 
shouldnt have been contacted by Lender N directly   where a representative  is acting, they 
should have dealt with the representative.
Ref: DRN29982282When contacted  by Lender  N, Ms P had the choice  to deal with them,  or ask them to contact 
Waterloo Solutions. She chose to deal with the Lender N direct, knowing that Waterloo  
Solutions were charging for their services.  So I cant hold Waterloo  Solutions  responsible for 
the time and effort Ms P spent on the phone to the Lender N, and I dont agree that their fee 
should be reduced or waived as a result. 
Waterloo Solutions also charged  a percentage success  fee, not a fee based upon  the 
amount of work  they actually  undertook. This means  that any work done on any 
unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where  a claim was successful, Waterloo  
Solutions fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. This is the 
risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just because their fee is higher than the 
value of the work they have done for Ms P doesnt  make their fee unjustified.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about  Waterloo Solutions 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2998228