K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Santander  UK Plc (Santander), trading as National & Provincial Building  
Society mis-sold her mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L took out an MPPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1992. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case. 
The policy was sold over 25 years  ago, and Santander doesnt have any paperwork from the 
time of the sale. Given its age, I dont find this surprising or unusual. And for the same 
reason, I understand how difficult it might be for Mrs L to remember details of the sale.
Santander doesnt have a copy of the policy document that wouldve been used for the PPI 
when it was sold. So because of that Ive looked  at the nearest policy  document it does  
have, and some of the sale leaflets it has given me from around that time. Ive also taken 
into account what I know more generally  about  these  types  of policies. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. I know this will disappoint her  so Ill explain 
why. 
Both Santander and Mrs L arent able to say how the policy  was sold. Mrs L says that she 
was never  told the policy was optional. Santander  had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and that Mrs L agreed to take it. But as Ive said, neither partys been able to give us much 
detail about how the PPI was sold to Mrs L. 
As Ive said,  I think its understandable that neither party has any detailed information  about  
how the PPI was sold because the sale was so many years  ago. But because of this, Ive not 
seen enough to say its likely Santander  did do things to make Mrs L think  the PPI wasnt 
optional. Or that she didnt agree to take it at the time. 
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mrs L, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ive taken  note of what shes said about 
her good  employer sick pay. But MPPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and it gave her 
cover for up to 24 months   which is significantly longer than the cover  she had in place.
Mrs L says she had some savings at the time  but if she couldnt work, I think  the PPI 
wouldve freed up any savings to pay for her other  essential bills and living expenses.  So, 
weighing everything  up, I think the policy still offered useful protection for Mrs L.
Ref: DRN28027922Clearly, after such a long time I cannot know if Santander gave Mrs L all the information it 
should have about how much the policy cost. But even if the cost wasnt  explained well, I 
think Mrs L wouldve still bought it. Ive noted what Mrs L say about her financial 
circumstances and lack of knowledge  when  taking out her first mortgage. But the mortgage 
was a big and long term commitment, secured on her home.  She was responsible for 
making the repayments. And the consequences  of failing to do that couldve been  very 
serious.
Its also possible Santander  didnt  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover  like a 
pre-existing medical condition. But Mrs L doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of 
those things. 
Ive taken into account everything Mrs L has said  including what shes  said about her 
friends and family helping  her if needed   and them being in stable employment. But help 
from other cant be guaranteed. Ive also considered what shes said about her pension and 
employers in-death  service benefit.  But both of things gave her a benefit thats different to 
what the PPI gave her. 
Lastly, I note what she says about  her mortgage offer not showing PPI. But PPI isnt always 
something that would  be on a mortgage  offer, not least because  that document relates to the 
lending  and any conditions related to it. Nor does this mean the optional nature of her PPI 
wasnt made clear to her. 
So these points dont  change my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802792