K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1987 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr C and Mrs D say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Mrs Ds case.
The PPI covered Mr C only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time it was 
sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr C and Mrs D aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr C and Mrs D say the PPI was presented as a condition 
of the mortgage  and they werent  given a choice in taking it. There  isnt much information  
available from the time the PPI was sold but that isnt unusual  considering  the time thats 
passed and that businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. With 
the information that is available I dont have enough  to say the PPI wasnt  presented to Mr C 
and Mrs D as optional,  or that they didnt choose to have it.
Its likely  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr C has told us he cant remember  how much  sick pay he was entitled to and he had 
some savings and other insurance. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition  to any sick 
pay Mr C would have received. It would also have allowed  Mr C to keep his savings in place 
to be used toward other essential expenses he may have had. In addition the PPI would 
have covered circumstances his other  policies wouldnt have. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr C and Mrs D seem to have had a need 
for the cover. So I think it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr C chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr C and Mrs D if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr C off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr C and Mrs D.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13  July  2019.
Ref: DRN28230722Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823072