K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about a reviewable  whole of life policy sold to him by Aviva Life and 
Pensions UK Limited in 1996. He explains he was sold two life policies but the review 
outcomes on the two policies differ significantly.  Mr D complains he was not told the policies 
had been set up on a different basis.
background 
Mr D took out two reviewable  whole-of-life  policies  in 1996. His wife, Mrs D was the life 
assured. The first policy provided £120,000  of cover and the second £60,000 of cover. Both 
were set up with indexation.  The policies were  subject to reviews  which  would check if the 
current premium  could  continue to support the sum assured. .
The first policy failed  the review in 2011  and Mr D decided to reduce the cover.  The 
reduction was fairly small. The second policy passed its review.
In 2016 the first policy failed the review  again. The second policy  passed  its review as no 
action was required until the next review.  Although there was a warning that in the long term 
the premium would probably not sustain the sum assured.
Mr D chose to increase his premium  slightly on the first policy for a small increase in the 
cover. But the first review letter received by Mr D was incorrect. The actual position was that 
a significant increase in premium was needed  to maintain the same level of cover or a 
significant reduction in cover if he wanted to pay the same premium. 
When Mr D became aware of the outcome of the 2016 review  he complained to the 
business.
He said he didnt understand  why the reviews  for the policies had such  different outcomes. 
Initially the business said that the policies had been  set up on the same basis  but with a 
different level of cover. It then explained that the first policy had been set up on a maximum 
cover basis.  It didnt  uphold their complaint. 
Mr D referred  his complaint to our service. He said he hadnt been  aware  that the two 
policies had been set up on a different basis and he wouldnt have chosen to have a policy  
on the maximum basis where there would be a likelihood  of bigger increases at review.  The 
business said he must have realised  because the first policy provided twice as much cover 
but wasnt that much more expensive.
Mr D said he didnt realise and probably  just thought it was a special deal as he was taking 
out two policies. 
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ds complaint and felt it should  be upheld.  He didnt feel it 
had been made clear  to Mr D that the first policy had been taken out on a maximum cover 
basis and what that was likely to mean  for future reviews. The adjudicator asked the 
business to reconstruct the policy  as if it had been  taken out on a standard  basis. He asked 
the business to calculate  how much cover Mr D would have had for the premium he paid.
Ref: DRN22369692The business disagreed. It said that it must  have  been pointed out to Mr D that one of the 
policies was set up on a maximum cover basis while the other was set up on a standard  
cover basis  to explain why the premium  for the first larger policy  was not double the other  
policy.
We asked the business  for further clarification  as it had said that the second policy had been 
taken out closer to the standard basis. The business said the second policy had also been  
taken out on the maximum basis but there  was a minimum  premium which  had been  
charged for that policy.
The matter  was referred to me for review. I issued a provisional decision where  I concluded 
the complaint  should be upheld in part. I concluded  that it hadnt  been made to clear to Mr D 
that the first policy had been set up on the maximum basis  and what  that meant.  But I noted 
that the same level of cover on the standard  basis wouldnt have been affordable. So I said 
the first policy should be reconfigured as if it had been set up on the standard  basis and 
Mr D had paid £27.50 per month from outset. Both parties were  given an opportunity to 
respond.
The business said that if the policy had been  taken out on a standard basis with a premium 
of £27.50 it would have  passed the policy reviews.  After the 2016 review the policy would 
cost around £53 and provide nearly £101,000  of cover with the next contractual review  being 
2021. Those figures were then provided to Mr D.
Mr D was not happy with the proposed outcome.  He didnt feel that provided  good value for 
money. He pointed out that for the second policy he had received £60,000 for £10 whereas 
the business was saying  £27.50 would have  only bought around £68,000 of cover  in 1996. 
Mr D also questioned how long this level of cover would be available and what  would  
happen at the next policy  review. He proposed a lump sum to compensate  him for the mis-
selling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  the representations and 
information provided in response to my provisional  decision. 
Mr D took out two reviewable  whole -of -life policies in 1996.  The point of sale 
documentation records that the first policy with £120,000 cover  was taken out for family 
protection. The second policy with £60,000 was taken out to protect their mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs D were married with a young child. Mr D had existing life cover but Mrs D didnt 
have any cover. They had 16 years  remaining  on their mortgage.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs D had a need  for life cover for Mrs D and it is clear they still 
want the cover provided by these life policies.
It is usually more expensive to take out two polices rather  than one as there are two sets of 
charges and set up costs.  I can understand it might be a sensible idea where the policies 
have different functions. For instance  where one policy is specifically designed to protect  a 
mortgage; such as a decreasing term assurance  policy with a term which  matches the 
mortgage. Because that is generally  a cheaper  way of protecting  a mortgage than a level 
policy and has more  certainty than a reviewable  whole-of-life policy.
Ref: DRN22369693The sum assured  on the £60,000 policy which was providing protection for their mortgage  
was only guaranteed for 10 years and then subject to review.  It was also set up with 
indexation. This was the same as the first policy. So, I am not convinced  that there was any 
real advantage for Mr D in taking out two similar types of policies  because  there would  be 
two sets of costs. 
The business has indicated  that it didnt offer level term protection policies at the time which 
was probably why it recommended a reviewable whole-of-life policy to protect the mortgage. 
But Im not convinced the policy was suitable  to protect  Mr Ds mortgage. However I note 
Mr D has kept the policy  beyond the term of his mortgage and still wants  the life cover it 
provides. He is fairly happy with the second  (smaller) policy and it is the first policy he 
complains about. 
I m not convinced on balance that the business  made it clear  to Mr D that the first policy  
(with £120,000 cover)  would be set up on a maximum cover basis and what that meant. 
The illustration did refer to it being set up on a maximum  basis but it also said:
This illustration  should  not be shown to the client. It is issued to intermediary for background 
purposes only.
So I think it unlikely on balance that it was shown to Mr D. 
I note the business has said Mr D must have been aware because the first policy  provided 
significantly more cover than the second  policy for a slightly increased premium.  But Mr D 
has said he probably just thought it was a special offer as he was taking out two policies. 
In addition the business has also said that the reason the second policy  cost only a little less 
for significantly less cover  was that there was a minimum  premium.  This may explain why 
the reviews have been more favourable on the second smaller policy  as less of the premium  
was being used for the cost of the cover. In any event I am not convinced  there  was anything 
that should have alerted Mr D that the first (larger) policy was set up on a maximum basis.
Setting up the policy on a maximum  basis meant  that the majority  of the premium was used 
for the cost of cover and very little was invested to provide for the future. This meant  that 
future reviews would be likely to result in significant increases in premiums  or in significant  
reductions in the amount of cover  provided  by the policy. I think  if the ramifications of taking 
out the policy on a maximum basis had been  made clear  to Mr D he would have chosen 
differently. 
I think it is likely on balance that he would  have taken out one single life policy on a standard 
basis instead. But Mr D wouldnt have been able to have so much cover because  cover on a 
standard basis would have  been significantly more expensive. The business  has said that 
£120,000 on a standard cover basis would  have cost £50.59, which was more than twice  
what he paid overall.
I have asked the business how much  cover Mr D could have had for one sole policy  paying  
the same  total premium  on the standard basis (with the policy being set up with indexation). 
It has indicated that for the amount paid (around £22) the level of cover would have initially  
been £52,100. This is obviously  significantly less cover than Mr D took out.
Ref: DRN22369694The real difficulty here is that the certainty  that Mr D would  have  liked with his life policy 
means he would have had to pay significantly more  or accept much  less cover. Having  
looked at the financial  circumstances as recorded on the fact find I think Mr and Mrs D could 
have afforded  to pay more to secure  more certainty  but I think it unlikely Mr D would have 
increased his premium to £50.59.
I think the fairest and most reasonable way of resolving this complaint would be for the 
business to reconfigure the first policy as if Mr D had paid an initial premium of £27.50  and it 
had been taken out on the standard basis with indexation.
The business has said that Mr D would have had around £68,000 of cover  initially for that 
premium. It has also said the policy would have passed the reviews so after the 2016 review  
he would  have around £101,000 of cover for around £53.
Mr D is unhappy with this outcome.  He says this is a low level of cover and his is concerned 
as to what might happen at the next review. He points out for the second  policy  he initially 
paid £10 and received  £60,000. So by his calculation £30 would have bought around 
£180,000 of cover. 
I can understand Mr Ds discontent. The problem  is because  his first policy  was set up on 
the maximum basis he received a high level of cover for the money he was paying. But there  
was a likelihood of significant future increases -which is what  then happened  on his policy. 
The standard basis is just not going to provide that same high level of cover  without  a 
substantial increase in premium. I note Mr Ds comments about the second policy but that 
wasnt set up on the standard basis although  it was closer to the standard basis  because  of 
the minimum premium and the level of cover. It also doesnt necessarily follow  that three 
times the premium would buy three  times the cover. 
Obviously we cant say what  will happen at the next review, which the business has said is in 
2021. But the standard basis is designed  to try and protect against those significant 
increases. 
Mr D has asked for some lump sum compensation for the mis-selling instead.  I dont think  
that is an appropriate way of compensating Mr D in the circumstances. The problem is it is 
very difficult to quantify what financial loss he has sustained. Mr D has had a reasonably 
high level of cover for a number of years  which  he has confirmed he wanted. Mr D has had 
two policies rather than one but he used  the second  policy for mortgage  protection  and then 
wanted to keep it beyond the mortgage period as he is fairly happy with it. 
Cover on the standard basis would have been  much more expensive  so Mr D would have 
been paying more. Mr D has lost the opportunity to take out a policy  at the standard basis 
when he was younger. Reconfiguring the policy is, in my view, the best way of trying  to 
remedy that lost opportunity. I note Mr D bought  this complaint on the basis that he didnt 
want to lose the cover provided  by this policy.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont think it would be fair to ask Mr D to pay the extra 
backdated premiums. Because these would have  been  paid out of his disposable income  
and not noticed by Mr D, whereas it would be far more difficult  for him to now find a relatively  
large lump sum. But clearly Mr D would have to pay the increased premium  going forward. 
Ref: DRN22369695So that means that one of the benefits of the re-configuration of the policy is that Mr D hasnt 
had to pay those  more expensive premiums over the years.  Overall  on balance  I consider it 
is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
In order to reconfigure  the policy the business will have  to pay the backdated increased 
premium amounts into the policy. So I dont think Mr D should benefit from any increase in 
the surrender  value  of the policy that relates to those particular payments should he decide 
to surrender the policy. 
As I said in my provisional decision I am not inclined to say that Mr D has to cancel the 
second policy because  Mr and Mrs D seem  reasonably happy  with it and a number of years  
have passed since Mr D took out these  policies. So it is likely to cost more to take out more  
life cover now. It would  be a matter for the Mr D to consider how much cover  he wants  and 
can afford going forward. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ds complaint  against Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited is 
upheld in part and the business should  reconfigure Mr Ds policy  as set out in my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2236969