K820x#14complaint
Miss M says National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Miss M took out a PPI policy in 2006 when she applied for a mortgage  in one of the banks 
branches. The cover gave  her protection against  accident and sickness.  She paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  it clear to Miss M the PPI was optional, and she had to agree to take 
it. Miss M says she wasnt aware  the PPI was optional.  I cant know what was said in the 
meeting but Ive thought  carefully about Miss Ms comments and looked at the paperwork 
available from her sale. 
On Miss Ms mortgage application she indicated that she wanted to apply for PPI. There  was 
the option to decline the cover and it was set out with equal prominence.  She completed and 
signed a separate direct  debit mandate for the PPI. And the Key Facts document for her 
mortgage listed PPI under the heading Optional insurance that you do not have to take out 
through National Westminster Home  Loans  Ltd. It made clear only buildings insurance was 
a condition of the mortgage.
So overall, I think NatWest made  it clear  the PPI was optional, and Miss M chose  to take it. I 
can understand she might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt  have to make sure the policy was suitable  for 
Miss M. But it had to give clear, fair and not misleading information  about the PPI so that she 
could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible NatWest didnt give Miss M as much  information as it shouldve done. But I dont 
think better information wouldve put her off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
It seems  Miss M was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy.
Miss M told us she was entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she 
was off work sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to her work benefits and for 
up to 12 months. She said she had savings of between £1,000 and £2,000 but the PPI 
Ref: DRN25893052wouldve allowed her to use them to cover other  living expenses whilst not working. 
Given the consequences for Miss M of defaulting  on a debt secured against  her home, I 
think the PPI would have been  useful if she was sick or lost her job.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Miss M but I havent  seen  any 
evidence that the PPI premium was unaffordable,  and the policy  was competitively 
priced.
It follows that I dont think Miss M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2589305