K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a 
store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G took out the PPI at the same  time as she applied for the card in store  in 2004.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says she was given  the impression she had to have the PPI in order for the 
application for the card to be agreed. 
However Ive seen Mrs Gs application  form. The form has a separate section for PPI and 
Mrs G has signed in that section to request  the PPI. Therefore I consider that Mrs G chose 
to buy the policy,  knowing that she didnt have  to, even if she no longer  remembers doing so.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs G to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough  information for her to be able to make  an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Looking at the application form,  it gives a very brief description of the benefits of the policy.  
However, it does not detail the cost of the policy at all.
FICL has said that Mrs G did not give any description of her role or tenure in the PPI 
questionnaire that she completed. However,  Mrs G has told us over the phone that her 
employer would have  given her at least six months  full sick pay. Based on the length of 
service that Mrs G had, and the nature  of her employer, I consider it is reasonable to 
conclude that Mrs G would have received at least six months  full sick pay.
Overall, I consider that if the policys costs and benefits had been made clearer to Mrs G, 
she is unlikely to have  chosen to take out the PPI. This is because I dont think  shed have 
considered it to be value for money  in her circumstances. It follows that I uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint.
fair compensation
FICL should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs G would  have  owed  when the card account  was 
closed if the policy  hadnt been added.
Ref: DRN28808532So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owed when the account 
was closed and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs 
G paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs G paid. And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point when Mrs G 
would have owed FICL something  on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A, B, C and D.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and require Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2880853