K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as 
the insurer, should accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card which Mrs M took out in 
2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs M has said PPI was not mentioned when she took out the store  card. FICL has 
provided a copy of the card application Mrs M signed for her store card. Theres  a 
section titled Protecting your account and it says  only sign this box if you require 
Account Cover. Mrs M has signed  in the box which I think indicates that she wanted 
the cover. If Mrs M didnt want PPI, she didnt have to sign in the box. I dont know  
what was discussed  at the time but as Mrs M was agreeing  to additional  credit, I would 
have expected her to have read the form and raised  any questions  she had at the time 
before signing  in agreement with it.
I think its likely that PPI wouldve appeared on Mrs Ms monthly  card statements and I think  
she would  have questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she didnt know 
shed taken out. But it seems Mrs M continued  to pay PPI for some years  after taking the 
policy out.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs M knew at the 
time that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand 
why she might not recall  this now, as the sale took place over 15 years  ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt need to check  that it was suitable, 
given her circumstances at the time. But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough 
information to decide whether she wanted  to take it. Although I dont know what  was said 
to her then, I think its likely that the information she received  about  the PPI could have 
been better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed her mind  
about taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN29645922Mrs M appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs M says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient employee sick pay at 
the time as well as some  savings. However, for £1.00 per £100 of the outstanding monthly 
balance the PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ms outstanding monthly balance, until 
she returned to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in 
addition to her sick pay and would mean she could use could use her savings for other 
expenses or leave them intact. So I think she would have  valued the extra  security which the 
policy gave her if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs M. And as the policys  
premiums were paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but this hasnt changed my mind  about not 
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont  uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2964592