K820x#14complaint
Ms D is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined  a claim she made under her 
motor insurance policy.
background
Ms D was involved  in an accident  with another  car in November 2018. Ms D called Admiral 
to make a claim on the day of the accident. Admiral say that based on what Ms D said during 
this call, it was clear she was at fault for the accident  as she was the party  changing lanes 
and she shouldve checked her way was clear before going in to the other lane. So as a 
result of this, they decided  to settle  the claim as a fault claim.
Ms D doesnt agree  with Admirals decision and doesnt think Admiral investigated her claim 
properly. Ms D says she was already in the lane when the other  driver  undertook  her, 
causing the collision. 
Ms D complained to us and one of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. Our 
adjudicator thought Admiral had investigated  the claim fairly and that they had reached  their 
decision in line with the terms of Ms Ds policy.  So the adjudicator didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld.
Ms D didn't  agree and asked  for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. She remains of 
the opinion that Admiral  didnt carry out an investigation into her claim. So the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it and Ill explain why.
Ms Ds policy  has a term which allows  Admiral  to take over and settle a claim as they see fit. 
This means  Admiral may make a decision to settle  a claim which  Ms D doesnt agree with, 
but the policy allows this to happen. 
I should set out that its not my role to decide  who was at fault for the incident   this is a 
matter for the courts. I can only look to see if Admiral  made  its decision on how to settle  the 
claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Ms D doesnt believe  Admiral have investigated her claim  fully. She says Admiral should 
take into consideration other evidence like the police report  and CCTV footage  from around 
the accident location. But Admiral say they established Ms D was at fault for the accident  
from what she told them in the initial call when she contacted them  to make the claim.
Admiral have sent me a copy of the initial call recording between them and Ms D which  Ive 
listened to. Ms D first says she was still changing  into the left lane when the other driver hit 
her car  she says she wasnt fully in that lane yet. Admirals advisor explains that unless 
Ms D could prove the other driver was speeding; its likely shed be held at fault as the party  
changing lanes.  After the advisor explains this, Ms D then says she was already established 
in the left lane when  the other driver  hit her.
Ref: DRN25563792Admiral have sent me a copy of their internal  claim notes. I can see from these that Ms D 
calls back the day after the initial call and again reiterates that she was already established  
in the left lane when  the other driver  hit her car. Admirals advisor told Ms D that theyd listen  
to the initial  call again before reaching  a decision  on who was at fault for the accident.
After listening to the initial call between Ms D and their advisor,  Admiral  felt they had enough  
to come to a decision that Ms D was at fault for the accident. They  say as Ms D was the 
driver changing lanes,  she was responsible  for checking whether her entry into the other 
lane was clear. I dont think this explanation is unreasonable and I also dont think its 
unreasonable for Admiral to rely on what Ms D told them  in the initial  call as this is when the 
incident wouldve  been freshest  in her mind.
I appreciate Ms D wants Admiral to gather further  evidence such as CCTV evidence from a 
nearby shop. However, as Ms D told us, the nearby shop didnt have CCTV available,  so I 
dont think this would have made  a difference to Admirals investigation. I can also see from 
the information available, Admiral contacted the police officer who attended the scene but 
they didnt receive  a response. 
Admiral have said they were satisfied,  from looking  at the pictures of Ms Ds car, that the 
damage was consistent with her original version of events. Having looked  at the photos 
myself, I dont think Admirals conclusions were  unreasonable. Im satisfied Admiral acted 
fairly in making  a decision on who was at fault by relying on Ms Ds first version of events as 
well as considering  the damage to her car.
I note Ms Ds comment that English isnt her first language, so explaining the incident whilst 
she was also in distress was difficult. But after listening to the initial call Im satisfied Ms D 
did understand what she was being asked about  the incident. I say this because when the 
advisor asks Ms D if the other  driver hit her car from the rear, she again reiterates that she 
wasnt completely in the left lane yet and that she was still moving in to it. 
I understand Ms D strongly disagrees  with Admirals decision and I do think  Admiral  couldve 
done more. I appreciate  this will come  as a disappointment to Ms D and I can appreciate 
Ms Ds frustrations, particularly as the other  driver didnt stop when the incident happened.  
But given what Ms D told Admiral in the initial  call, straight after the incident, I dont think 
Admiral acted unreasonably when carrying  out their investigation. So I dont think they need  
to do any more. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2556379