K821x#15complaint
Miss G has complained that Amigo Loans  Ltd (Amigo) provided her with a number of 
unaffordable guarantor  loans. 
She says that if Amigo had checked  properly before providing the loans it would have seen 
from her credit record that she had missed  payments and defaults and that she was also in a 
debt management  plan. And, in these circumstances,  Amigo  ought to have  realised that she 
was in financial difficulty.  
background
Amigo provided Miss G with a total of five guarantor  loans. On three occasions, Miss G was 
given further funds (top-ups) while she still had an outstanding  balance.  As Amigo doesnt 
allow borrowers to have more than one outstanding  loan at a time,  Miss G entered into 
completely new loan agreements where  the new loan included a sum to clear the 
outstanding balance on the previous one, as well as the additional funds Amigo  agreed to 
provide.
Miss Gs overall lending history with Amigo is as follows:
Loan Provided Term Amount Funds paid Paid to previous loan Repayment
1 March 2014 12 months £2,500 £2,500 £0 £257.65
2 August 2015 24 months £4,500 £4,500 £0 £278.17
3 February 2016 24 months £7,000 £3,301.32 £3698.68 (Loan 2) £432.71
4 March 2017 24 months £9,000 £4,996.56 £4003.44 (Loan 3) £556.34
5 January 2018 24 months £7,500 £548.41 £6951.59 (Loan 4) £463.62
One of our investigators  looked at what Amigo and Miss G said. He thought that Amigo  
hadnt treated  Miss G unfairly or done  anything  wrong when providing  these  loans. So he 
didnt uphold  Miss Gs complaint. 
Miss G disagreed with our investigators  assessment  and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
my provisional decision
On 2 May 2019,  I issued a provisional  decision setting  out my initial findings on Miss Gs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
Firstly, I summarised  the regulatory  framework,  relevant law, relevant publications, what I 
consider to be good industry practice,  and the content  of Amigos  own website at the time 
(this is copied in full in the appendix to this decision and I ask Amigo  and Miss G to read this 
again in order  to give proper context to this final decision).
In light of the relevant rules, guidance, good  industry practice and law, I explained that there  
were three overarching questions I needed  to consider in order to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These were:
Ref: DRN210865121.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss G wouldve been  able to 
do so?
2.Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Amigo  ought  reasonably to have  realised it was increasing  Miss Gs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so 
shouldnt have  provided further  loans?
3.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
In considering the first overarching question  whether Amigo completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G would be able to repay her loans in a 
sustainable way  I explained  that the rules  and regulations throughout the time Amigo  lent 
to Miss G required  it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she 
could afford  to repay any loan in a sustainable  manner. 
I explained that the checks had to be both borrower-focused and proportionate. So Amigo 
had to think more  widely than simply whether it would  get its money back from Miss G. What  
Amigo needed to do was think about  whether repaying the loan sustainably  would cause  
difficulties or adverse  consequences for Miss G. 
In practice this meant that Amigo had to reasonably conclude  that making the payments to 
the loan wouldnt  cause Miss G undue difficulty or adverse consequences.  And the existence 
of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the potential for Amigo  to pursue the guarantor 
instead of Miss G, for the loan payments  didnt  alter,  lessen, or somehow dilute this 
obligation.
I also explained that what constitutes a proportionate affordability  check was dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In light of this, I provisionally found that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
Ref: DRN21086513the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I explained that there may also be other factors which could influence  how detailed a 
proportionate check should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes  in future circumstances.
I found that Amigo appeared to be relying heavily on the online questionnaires, which it 
asked Miss G to complete, as well as the telephone calls it had with her, in order to assess 
her expenditure and determine her ability to sustainably repay this loan. 
I said this as Amigo told us:
We expect customers to provide accurate information in their budget  assessments, and it 
was Miss Gs responsibility to ensure that the information provided was correct 
I thought that this statement was suggestive of Amigo overlooking its responsibility to 
scrutinise any information provided  and to not proceed with an application in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have suspected the information provided  is inaccurate. I also 
thought this was likely, in this case, because I had significant concerns about the weight 
Amigo placed on the information  on the questionnaire Miss G completed.
I thought this was the case because, in my view, the word assessment in the title of the 
documentation provided didnt, in itself,  mean  that an assessment, let alone a reasonable 
and proportionate one of Miss Gs ability to sustainably repay her loans took place.
I thought that an assessment required some kind of evaluation, judgement, appraisal or 
scrutiny. And, in this case, I thought  Amigo simply accepted  the information provided  without 
question and without  any attempt to scrutinise  or evaluate it. I thought this was the case  
because for loan one Miss G was recorded as having a monthly income  of £1400 and having 
little in the way of household expenditure as her partner paid for all of this. And Miss G was 
recorded as having had a monthly disposable  income of nearly  £1000. 
In my view, this was contradicted by the other information Amigo had. I saw that there was 
an information section  entitled credit file, on the questionnaire, and it recorded a combined 
balance of over £2300 on two current accounts. I thought that this meant Miss G had 
overdrawn balances of over £2300 on these accounts. This section also showed that Miss G 
had a credit  card balance  of over £1300  across  three cards  and an outstanding balance 
of £390 on a payday loan,  which she was going  to consolidate  with these funds. 
I couldnt see how Amigo could have reasonably concluded the completed questionnaire 
was accurate and that Miss G had a disposable income of almost £1000  a month, bearing in 
mind what  it saw on her credit file. This is especially as she was taking out a loan to pay off 
an existing payday  loan of £390.  
I also had concerns with the monthly  payments recorded for Miss Gs existing debts.  I 
couldnt see how a monthly payment of £65 was sustainable for an overdraft  balance  of 
around £1900 or a monthly payment of £40 was sustainable for a credit card balance 
approaching £1300  after all I couldnt see how this ensured the respective balances  were 
repaid within  a reasonable period of time. And given  how habitually Miss G had taken 
Ref: DRN21086514payday loans,  in the period up to this loan being taken, I was surprised that this wouldnt 
have shown up on Amigos  credit  search  and alerted it to the fact that she was far from an 
occasional user of this type of borrowing.      
I then went on to explain that the rules  and guidance suggested that the risk of any credit not 
being sustainable directly related to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative to the customers  financial situation. In my view,  Amigo was providing  an 
expensive loan and its own website suggested  that its loans were marketed as means  of 
rehabilitating those who had previously  had bad credit. And, in any event, irrespective of 
Amigos marketing, the credit search carried out on Miss G showed wasnt  in a great 
financial position.  
I wasnt persuaded that the later credit  searches carried out (at the time of the later 
applications) showed  that Miss G was in a materially better financial position either. For 
example, at the time of loan two, while Miss Gs overdraft balance  had reduced,  she owed 
£3000 on credit cards and around  £2600 on catalogue shopping accounts. And by the time 
of loan four, Miss G had five credit  cards with a combined  balance  of approaching £6000, 
catalogue accounts with a combined balance of approaching £6000 and outstanding 
balances on six unsecured loans. 
Miss Gs loan statements  also showed  that shed  missed  payments on her Amigo loans too. 
So I wasnt  persuaded by Amigos argument that Miss Gs loans were well managed. There  
were also significant  arrears  as well as a default  - on other  accounts.  And I thought that all 
of this painted  a picture of someone whose  finances were getting  significantly worse during 
the course of her relationship with Amigo. I found that the information  recorded on the 
income and expenditure questionnaire  and then accepted by Amigo could be described  as 
being, at best,  optimistic  and, at worst, wholly inaccurate.   
I then explained  that (bearing in mind  the relevant law, regulations and good industry 
practice) a less detailed  affordability assessment, without the need for verification, was only 
really likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate  in circumstances where the amount to 
be repaid was relatively small, the consumers financial situation was stable and they would 
be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances   such  as in Miss Gs case  - where the customers finances were 
showing telling signs of possible strain  and distress, they were  expected  to maintain 
payments for a longer  period of time and there  was the potential that a guarantor would be 
required to step in and make  payments,  I thought it was far more likely that any affordability 
assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree  of verification, in 
order for it to be fair, reasonable  and proportionate. 
I pointed out that CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And, 
in my view,  this went further than a lender simply assessing whether the loan repayments  
were technically  affordable in the sense of a strict calculation. 
I noted that Amigo said it wouldnt have declined a loan application  on the basis  of an 
applicants credit history alone.  But in light of the information on Miss Gs credit  file, I couldnt 
see how Amigo could fairly and reasonably have concluded that Miss G would be able to 
make her repayments on time, without difficulty, without first getting a thorough  
Ref: DRN21086515understanding of her financial circumstances and some kind of reassurance  that they 
werent as distressed as the credit  file was suggesting. 
Taking all of this into account,  I thought that Amigo needed to get a thorough understanding  
of Miss Gs financial  position in order to properly assess whether she would more likely than 
not have been able to sustainably make the loan payments she was committing  to  
especially for the later loans where any objective  scrutiny of Miss Gs credit  file  on its own 
and irrespective of anything else - demonstrated  a clear worsening  of Miss Gs financial 
position. 
So, in these circumstances,  I thought  that as well as asking Miss G about the details of her 
income and expenditure, Amigo needed to take steps to verify what  it was being told. It could 
have done this by asking  for information such  as bank statements, copies of bills, or even 
proof of Miss Gs income. 
 
As there wasnt any evidence that Amigo did properly scrutinise the information  provided, or 
that it asked Miss G to provide documentary evidence to support the income and 
expenditure declarations made  even  where it was clear that her financial position was 
deteriorating, I found that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks before providing Miss G with any of her loans.
I then went on to consider  whether reasonable and proportionate  checks, for these loans 
would more likely than not have indicated to Amigo that Miss G would have been unable to 
sustainably repay  her loans. 
I started  by explaining  that Amigo was required to establish whether Miss G could 
sustainably make her loan repayments. And this was wider than simply assessing just 
whether the loan payments were  technically affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence 
calculation. I went on to explain that the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis could  
sometimes be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make  their repayments. 
But this in itself wont automatically mean that this is the case. This was because  the rules  
and guidance  were all clear in saying that a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in 
order to make their payments. And, in my view, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, a borrower would be unlikely  to be able to sustainably 
make their repayments if it was on notice  the borrower was unlikely  to be able to make their 
repayments without  borrowing  further. 
I considered the information that had been  provided  in light of this. 
I started  by explaining  that it wasnt in dispute  Miss G was substantially overdrawn when she 
was provided with loan one. And that she was continually  in her overdraft in the months 
leading up to this loan application.  I then explained that as Miss Gs income was only half the 
amount she was overdrawn by, she was never likely to see a credit  balance even when she 
received her monthly  salary. I also observed that Miss G was struggling to make ends meet.  
And that is why she had taken out so many payday loans in the period leading up to loan 
one and she continued doing  so after this. 
I also found that Miss Gs finances had actually worsened by the time of loan two. She owed 
more on credit cards and by that stage had accrued catalogue debt and a number of other  
loans too. By the time of loan two, Miss G was taking even more  short-term loans, from even 
more providers, as she, in vain, attempted  to try and stabilise her finances.    
Ref: DRN21086516Having borne all of this in mind, I found that reasonable  and proportionate  checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss G would not have been able to make  the 
loan repayments  to loans one and two without borrowing further   either  from Amigo, or 
others, or using her overdraft. And as that was the case, I found that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have  alerted Amigo to the fact that Miss G 
would not have been able to sustainably make the repayments to loans one and two. 
I didnt recreate individual, proportionate  affordability  checks  for loans three to five because 
I didnt think that was necessary to do so. 
One of the reasons I thought that was the case was because  there  was an argument  for 
saying that as loans three  to five were  top-ups of loan two and I had already found that loan 
two shouldnt have  provided, it ought to have followed that the complaint about loans three to 
five fell within the scope of my findings  for loan two. After all if matters  had played out as 
they should have done, it wouldnt have been  possible to top-up loan two if it wasnt provided 
in the first place. 
But I didnt think I had to make such a finding  in this case. This was because,  in addition to 
assessing the affordability of each individual loan provided to Miss G by Amigo, I also 
thought it was fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending  and what unfolded 
during the course of Amigos lending history  with Miss G. 
 
In other  words, I also had to consider the second of the three overarching questions  I set out 
on page 2 of this decision.  In considering this, I was mindful that the relevant rules and 
guidance  as summarised  in the appendix to this decision - made  it clear  that a lender 
shouldnt continue lending  where the loans were unsustainable or otherwise  harmful  and/or it 
was apparent that the customer may be experiencing  financial difficulties
I had already concluded that reasonable and proportionate affordability checks werent 
completed. And that based on the evidence on file, I found that such  checks would more 
likely than not have  shown that loans  one and two were individually  unaffordable. And 
looking beyond loan two, I found that Amigo ought  fairly and reasonably  to have  realised that 
Miss Gs financial position  was so distressed that further loans were  simply unsustainable for 
her. 
I explained that the factors that led me to find that Amigo ought  fairly and reasonably  to have 
realised loan three was unsustainable or otherwise harmful were:
the increasing amount of payday  loans Miss G had taken;
the increasing amount of other unsecured loans Miss G had (when she applied 
for loan one Miss G didnt  have  any but by the time of loan three she had four);   
the increasing amount of Miss Gs catalogue debt, which  the information 
recorded suggests shed only be making minimum payments to. This wouldnt 
make any substantial  inroads to the outstanding balance and perpetuate this 
debt;
I then explained  that by the time of loans four and five:
there had been missed payments  on loan three  and four;
Ref: DRN21086517the number  of unsecured loans (including  a hire purchase one) had increased 
even though the questionnaire completed  for loan three  said that some of the 
funds were going to consolidate the balances on some  of these loans;
the number  of credit cards held by Miss G had increased;
Miss G had defaulted on other commitments and entered  into a debt 
management plan on some of them;
Miss G was still regularly taking a significant  number  of short-term loans;
there was an outstanding bill of almost  £3000 for a telecommunications  provider. 
I found that all of the above were clear  indicators of Miss G being  in a difficult and 
deteriorating financial position. And bearing in mind Amigos obligation to monitor  Miss Gs 
repayment record and offer assistance  should it appear that she mightve been experiencing 
financial difficulties, I thought that Amigo shouldve  offered assistance  and/or a product that 
would allow her to sustainably repay  what  she owed. 
But instead  of doing this, Amigo  instead  kept consolidating Miss Gs borrowing into further  
loans. I pointed out that Miss G started out with a loan requiring 12 monthly payments of 
around £257 in March  2014. And by the time of loans three  to five Miss G was required to 
make payments of over £400  (and in the case of loan four approaching  £600) for twenty-four 
months. So the payments to these loans  were taking up a significant  proportion of Miss Gs 
income. And this was without even taking her existing debts into account.   
I also explained that I had reached these findings  while mindful of the fact Amigo itself 
promoted these  loans as a way of rehabilitating a borrowers credit file. It was my view that 
with this statement, Amigo  promoted  these loans as a means to a borrower  being  able to 
return to obtaining  mainstream credit  after demonstrating their ability to keep to repayments  
and improving their financial position.   
In these circumstances, I found  it very hard to see why Amigo  provided Miss G with loans 
three to five when it ought to have seen  that the opposite  was happening insofar as Miss Gs 
finances were deteriorating  and she wasnt rehabilitating  her credit file. On the contrary  it 
appeared to me that the opposite was happening  and that these loans  were  making things  
worse for her.
So I found that Amigo ought  fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans  from loans 
three onwards were  unsustainable  or otherwise harmful for Miss G and were unfairly and 
excessively increasing  her overall indebtedness. 
I then went on to consider  whether Amigo had acted  unfairly  or unreasonably to Miss G in 
some other way. And having  carefully considered all of the information provided, I hadnt  
seen anything to suggest that Amigo did do so. So I didnt find that Amigo  acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably towards  Miss G in some other way.
All of this led me to conclude that:
Amigo didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss G to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay  any of these  loans; 
Ref: DRN21086518reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have  individually  
shown Miss G was unable to sustainably make  the repayments for loans one and 
two;
Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have  realised  that the loans from loans 
three onwards  were  unsustainable  or otherwise harmful for Miss G and were 
unfairly and excessively increasing her overall indebtedness;  
Amigo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss G in some other way.
So overall my provisional decision  found  that Amigo had not acted  fairly  and reasonably to 
Miss G when  providing her with her loans. 
 
I then found that Miss G lost out as a result of having unfairly and unreasonably been 
provided with her loans  in two key ways. 
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly increasing Miss Gs indebtedness to 
Amigo by allowing her to take expensive credit  for significant sums. These  loans 
were expensive  and as a result  the increasing  monthly payments took up a 
significant proportion  of Miss Gs income  at a time where she was already 
struggling to make  ends meet.
Secondly, the number of loans in the period of time was likely  to have had 
implications for Miss Gs ability to access  mainstream credit. The greater the 
presence of these loans  on Miss Gs credit file the less likely  Miss G was able to 
rehabilitate her finances (in line with Amigos marketing and stated  purpose  of 
this type of lending) and regain access to mainstream credit. 
In my view, Amigo giving Miss G this many loans (which it shouldnt have done) 
in this period of time when  she was already  overstretched financially, unfairly 
placed her in a position where  she was trapped into taking expensive high-cost  
loans over an extended period as no-one else would lend to her.
I finally set out a method of putting  things right for Miss G, which  I found  addressed  Amigos  
failings and Miss Gs resulting loss.
Amigos response to my provisional decision
Amigo responded to my provisional decision. In summary, Amigos  response said that:
it was disappointed that I intended to uphold Miss Gs complaint and asked me to 
review my conclusions in light of its further  arguments;
it disagreed that it simply  accepted the information Miss G provided without any 
attempt to scrutinise or evaluate it;
it completed a number of checks on the income  and expenditure assessments to 
ensure the figures  provided were  reasonable and realistic. For example it 
compared each  item of Miss Gs expenditure to the national average.
Ref: DRN21086519Miss Gs income was verified  on each occasion.  For loans one and three          
Miss Gs declared income was compared  to the average salary of those in the 
same or similar positions. For loan two, a Credit Reference Agency (CRA)  was 
consulted to check if the declared income tallied with the funds entering  Miss Gs 
account each  month.  For loans  four and five, CRA  was also used to assess  
whether Miss Gs total expenditure, the monthly instalment and a buffer would be 
affordable based on her income.    
if the information provided couldnt  be verified  through these checks  then further 
information would have been  requested. But this wasnt necessary for any of the 
loans;
at the time of Miss Gs first loan her credit file showed that she was managing her 
creditors well. The payments to all but one of her creditors had been maintained  
perfectly;
my provisional decision queried  how Miss G could  reasonably  have had 
disposable income of almost £1000 a month when her credit files showed 
outstanding balances with other creditors and payday loans. But its decision to 
lend wasnt based on Miss Gs credit file. Amigos loans are designed to help 
people who may not have  a strong  credit  history. How Miss G had previously  
chosen to manage her credit had no bearing on her ability to maintain her 
payments to its loans  so long as the payments  on the existing credit were  taken  
into account;
my provisional decision also raised  concern with the monthly  payments budgeted 
towards Miss Gs outstanding debts. But it considers that monthly payments of 
£65 towards an outstanding  balance  of £1900 and £30 towards an outstanding  
balance of £1300 would settle each  debt in less than three years.  It doesnt  agree 
that this isnt a reasonable period of time for these  debts to be cleared;
it acknowledges the number of creditors Miss G had outstanding balances  with 
increased. But its checks showed  that Miss G was comfortably able to afford  the 
payments to each  of her outstanding creditors alongside her priority bills. 
So bearing in mind all of the above Amigo thought it hadnt done  anything wrong  or acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in providing  Miss G with any of the five loans.
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Amigos  response,  I can 
confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments it has made.
Miss Gs response to my provisional  decision
Miss G responded confirming that she accepted that my provisional decision and that she 
had no further  points to make.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN210865110In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the relevant law and regulations;  relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Ive set out all 
of this in the appendix  to this decision.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I remain of 
the view that the three overarching questions that I set out in my provisional decision are 
what I need to consider  in deciding whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. These are:
1.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss G wouldve been  able to 
do so?
2.Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Amigo  ought  reasonably to have  realised it was increasing  Miss Gs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so 
shouldnt have  provided further  loans?
3.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Amigo hasnt challenged  my conclusion that these  overarching  questions are relevant to me 
deciding this complaint. Indeed, Amigos response  to my provisional  decision appears to 
accept that these are the relevant questions.  The content of Amigos  response suggests it is 
my findings  on these matters that it disagrees with.
Having carefully read Amigos response to my provisional decision,  Im unsure as to whether 
it is arguing that its loans  were actually affordable for Miss G, or whether it is arguing              
Miss Gs actual  financial position is irrelevant here because its checks  were proportionate.
For the avoidance of doubt, I want to be clear in saying that Im satisfied that any objective 
reading of Miss Gs actual  financial position,  at the time of the loan applications, show that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her being  able to sustainably make  the payments to 
these loans.
Bearing this in mind, it seems to me that it would only be fair and reasonable for me to agree 
with Amigo and find that it wasnt unfair for it to have  provided these loans to Miss G  
notwithstanding Miss Gs actual financial position   if its checks before lending  were fair, 
reasonable and proportionate on each occasion.            
So Ive carefully  considered  whether  this was the case.
Amigo has argued that it did scrutinise and evaluate the information  it obtained  from Miss G. 
I accept that Amigo might  have taken  some steps  to verify Miss Gs income.  But I think  it 
was clear from the content  of my provisional decision that it wasnt Amigos  acceptance of 
Miss Gs declaration of income that was the issue here. Rather  it was the acceptance of the 
expenditure information that required more scrutiny  than that applied  by Amigo.
Ref: DRN210865111Amigo still hasnt provided a plausible explanation as to why it believed that it was fair and 
reasonable to proceed with the application  for loan one, on the basis that Miss G had a 
monthly disposable income of approaching £1000,  when Miss Gs outstanding balances  with 
other creditors, was overdrawn by substantial amounts  on more than one current  account 
and she was a regular user of payday loans. 
To be clear, my point  here isnt that a lender shouldnt ever lend to a customer  that already 
has existing credit commitments or someone  who has had a payday loan in the past. What 
Im saying is that further scrutiny needs to be applied and greater care taken in these 
circumstances to ensure  that any further  lending  can be sustainably repaid. This is 
supported by the rules and guidance  referring  to the borrowers financial circumstances 
being a relevant consideration  in determining the proportionality of any checks. 
In this particular  case, I think that it was unreasonable  for Amigo  to conclude that Miss G had 
a monthly disposable income of approaching £1000 when her existing credit commitments 
and her regular  use of payday  loans  suggested this was unlikely. And, in these 
circumstances, I think  it would have  been  fair reasonable  and proportionate  to verify whether 
Miss G did have such funds left over each  month, when the other information Amigo  had 
called this into question.   
I also have concerns with Amigo  using national  averages to verify Miss Gs expenditure 
when it knew that she had an adverse credit history. National averages are based on the 
finances and expenditure of the average  consumer. But Amigo  knew, when it lent to Miss G, 
that it was providing  a loan to someone whod had an adverse  credit history and therefore 
someone fell outside this average portfolio. 
I dont think that using national averages   which were unlikely to reflect the existing 
commitments and expenditure of someone in Miss Gs circumstances - to explain the 
mismatch between what had been  declared  and what the credit file was showing was fair, 
reasonable and proportionate bearing  in mind Miss G circumstances.  
I also disagree with Amigos argument that Miss Gs credit file demonstrated that she was 
managing her existing  creditors  well. Ive noted that in making this argument  Amigo  has 
chosen to focus  on the credit file at the time of loan one. Its unclear whether this is because  
it accepts that Miss Gs finances  were showing signs of strain after this, or whether this is an 
oversight. 
But for the avoidance of doubt and the sake of completeness, I think  that it would be useful  
for me to start by addressing whether Miss G was managing her existing commitments well 
before loans two, three, four and five. And I dont think that Miss G was. In my view, Miss Gs 
increasing debt burden and the payments she missed on her Amigo loans were clear  
indicators that she wasnt managing her repayments to her existing creditors well. Id also 
argue that Miss G wanting  or needing to take out five loans in less than four years (for 
increasing amounts)  was, in itself,  indicative  of someone who was struggling to manage  their 
money.  
In any event, even  if I were to give Amigo the benefit  of the doubt  here and say that it is 
restricting its argument (that Miss G was managing her creditors  well) to Miss Gs 
circumstances at the time of loan one, I think it is taking an over-optimistic view of the 
circumstances. I say this because Miss Gs regular  and repeated  use of payday loans was 
itself an indication that she may in an unsustainable debt position with her existing creditors.
Ref: DRN210865112Furthermore, Miss G appears  to have only been making  the minimum payment due to some  
of her creditors. Amigo says that these  payments  were enough to ensure the balances would 
have been cleared within three years and so it disagrees with my finding  that the balances  
wouldnt have been cleared within a reasonable period of time. 
Leaving aside my concerns as to whether three years is a reasonable period of time, I, in 
any event, dont think that Amigos calculations add up here. I think that Amigo  has simply 
divided the outstanding balances by the proposed monthly payment  or at least  thats the 
only method I can see which produces  similar  numbers  to work out how many  months  it 
would take to repay what was owed. 
But these  were outstanding balances on an overdraft and a credit  card.  So the interest  
wasnt crystallised at that point, or factored into the budgeted payments. Indeed on the 
overdraft its likely that interest added would have  taken  up almost all of the budgeted 
payment. And Amigos calculations dont appear to take any account  of the interest  that 
would accrue during  the period the balances  were to be repaid. 
So even if I were to agree  that three years was a reasonable period of time  I want to make 
it clear that I dont  I, in any event, dont see how the payments Amigo recorded  would  have 
led to the balances being cleared within three years. Amigo might have drawn confidence  
that it would  get its money back because Miss G had been making payments. But Amigo 
was required to do more  than simply assess the likelihood  of it receiving  its loan payments 
from Miss G. 
Amigo also had to consider the impact that making these loan payments would have on   
Miss Gs financial position. And I dont  think that the minimum payments Miss G was making 
to her existing creditors, in themselves, meant that Miss G was managing her existing 
commitments well or that they were an indication that she could sustainably repay the loans 
Amigo provided.
Finally, my provisional decision also made it clear that Miss G was overdrawn by 
approaching double the amount of her monthly salary. Amigo was aware of this. In these 
circumstances, I dont  see how Amigo could  possibly have seen that Miss G would make  her 
loan payments without  using  her overdraft when there wasnt a reasonable or realistic 
prospect of Miss G clearing the balance any time in the near future. 
So, in my view, Amigo  ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Miss G would more 
likely than not have  to borrow further   either  using her overdraft  or other  loans etc  to 
make her payments. And bearing  in mind that a consumer being  able to sustainably repay a 
loan was dependent on them being able to make  repayments without having to borrow  
further, I think that Amigo ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have concluded  that Miss G was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably make the repayments not just to loan one but all the 
subsequent ones too.           
Having carefully thought  about all of Amigos further  points, Ive not been  persuaded to alter 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. This means that having carefully 
thought about the three overarching questions,  set out on page ten of this decision, I find 
that:
 
Amigo didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss G to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay  any of these  loans; 
Ref: DRN210865113reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have  individually  
shown Miss G was unable to sustainably make  the repayments for loans one and 
two;
Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have  realised  that the loans from loans 
three onwards  were  unsustainable  or otherwise harmful for Miss G and were 
unfairly and excessively increasing her overall indebtedness;  
Amigo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss G in some other way.
the above means that Amigo didnt act fairly  and reasonably when providing  
Miss G with all five of her loans.
Ive already explained  on page  eight of this decision - why Ive found that Miss G lost out 
as a result  of Amigo unfairly  and unreasonably  providing her with these five loans. Ive not 
seen anything to persuade me that Miss G didnt lose out in this way. So Im satisfied  that 
this remains the case and I find that Amigo should put things right for Miss G.
fair compensation  Amigo needs to do to put things right for Miss  G
Ive carefully thought  about what Amigo should  do to put things right in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean Amigo 
putting Miss G in the position shed now be in if she hadnt  been given these loans.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Miss G 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds   albeit some of them  went towards  
repaying earlier loans.  So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. 
And its simply not possible to put Miss G back in the position she would be in if she hadnt 
been given these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Amigo  to put things right in the 
following way.
interest and charges on the loans
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Amigo lending to Miss G, in these circumstances, 
left her in a position  where her debt was increasing. Miss G kept having to find additional 
funds to pay the monthly payments on her Amigo loans.  In reality its the interest and on 
these loans that led to Miss Gs indebtedness  increasing and her financial position 
worsening. So to start with I think that Amigo should  refund any interest and charges that 
Miss G paid.
Miss G also lost the use of the funds she used to pay the interest and charges, I now think 
that Amigo needs to refund to her. As Miss G lost the use of these funds, I think she should 
be compensated for this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where a 
consumer hasnt had the use of funds  because its actions resulted  in something having gone  
wrong. Bearing in mind  my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart 
Ref: DRN210865114from our usual approach  here and I think awarding 8% per year simple interest, on the 
interest and charges paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Amigo  should  pay Miss G 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges she 
paid from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles  Miss Gs complaint.
Miss Gs credit  file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
So to start with I think that Amigo should  remove any adverse information recorded on 
Miss Gs credit  file as a result of the interest  and charges  on loans 1 and 2, as Miss G wasnt  
in a position to sustainably repay these loans and she shouldnt have had to pay those 
interest and charges.
But Im upholding  Miss Gs complaint about  loans three to five because I think the overall 
pattern of lending increased Miss Gs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
harmful in some other way. I explained that there were two main  adverse consequences of 
Amigo having given  Miss G these particular loans,  in these  circumstances. Firstly it caused 
her indebtedness  to increase unsustainably  as a result of the interest and charges. And Ive 
already explained how Miss G should  be compensated for this.
I also explained that these loans having been  provided in these circumstances are likely to 
have had implications  for Miss Gs ability to access mainstream credit.  The greater the 
number of these  loans on Miss Gs credit  file the less likely Miss G was able to rehabilitate  
her finances  and regain access to mainstream credit. And I think my direction in relation to 
Miss Gs credit  file needs to reflect this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Miss Gs credit  
history and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make an informed  decision on whether 
lend to her, I think that the mere  presence  of loans three to five on Miss Gs credit  file, in 
itself, constitutes adverse  information. And I think that these loans appearing on Miss Gs 
credit file is likely  to continue unfairly  adversely affecting Miss G going  forwards. 
In these circumstances, I think that it is fair, reasonable  and proportionate  for Amigo to 
remove all reference to loans three  to five from Miss Gs credit  file, as these loans being  
present in these  circumstances, in itself, is adverse information.
All of this means  that its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Gs complaint 
for Amigo to put things  right in this case by:
refunding all the interest and charges Miss G paid as a result of having  been 
provided with her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest payments from the date 
they were paid by Miss G to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit  file as a result of loans 
one and two;
Ref: DRN210865115removing all reference to loans three  to five from Miss Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest.  Amigo  must give 
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Gs complaint. Amigo  Loans Ltd should 
pay compensation to Miss G in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN210865116appendix  relevant  considerations  as set out in my provisional  decision
A the legal and regulatory  framework  
B other key publications and good industry practice
C information  on Amigos website
A the legal and regulatory  framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Amigo gave Miss G her first loan in the period up to the end of March  2014. During this time 
it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to carry out 
consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicants  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicants employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
Ref: DRN210865117(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Miss Gs case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFTs  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFTs view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection  and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
Ref: DRN210865118make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrowers repayment  record  during the course  of the agreement, 
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFTs view, all assessments  of affordability should involve a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrowers financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
Assessing affordability,  in the context of this guidance, is a borrower-focussed test which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, 
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN210865119In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning  credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
Ref: DRN210865120a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Ref: DRN210865121Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point the ILG was amended to 
reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional  
requirement on a lender  to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in 
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of 
Consumer Credit providers passed  to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
By the time of loan two and for all of Miss Gs subsequent loans (1 April 2014  onwards) this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the 
rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
Ref: DRN210865122regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)
Amigo gave Miss G loans two to five after regulation  of Consumer Credit Licensees had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. Amigo 
initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before it went on to 
successfully apply for authorisation as a consumer credit provider. 
Amigos interim  permission to provide consumer credit and its eventual  authorisation to do 
so meant  that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like Amigo  
when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back  to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
Ref: DRN210865123CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
Ref: DRN210865124(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. 
As the guarantor isnt a party to this complaint, I dont think  that its necessary to set out all 
the rules and guidance relating to the additional  obligations  owed  to guarantor in this 
decision. That said I do think  its useful  for me to set out CONC 5.2.6G which  says:
(2)The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded  of the rule in CONC 5.3.4R  that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based  primarily or solely  on the value  of 
any security provided  by the borrower.
Ref: DRN210865125Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Miss Gs loans  were given to her after Section  140 of the Consumer Credit Act came  
into force  on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court  may 
determine that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
Ref: DRN210865126(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Ref: DRN210865127B other key publications and good industry practice 
The ILG and CONC set out the regulatory framework that regulated/authorised lenders have 
to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard  for firms. And as Ive explained, Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section entitled Additional focus for firms  providing guarantor  lending  said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms  
that provide guarantor loans in the following  area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at least  one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want  to 
Ref: DRN210865128understand the root causes for this increase,  and whether firms  are conducting  adequate  
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors  may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon  to make a payment. So, as well as our broad  
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether  potential guarantors  have  enough information  to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
the FCA Executive  Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019  
The FCAs Executive  Director  of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit  Summit, which  
took place on 21 March 2019,  entitled  What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit  portfolio strategy  letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March  2019.  And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity  for those with thin credit  files - poor or limited 
credit history  - we do have concerns.  Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have  
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making  at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors  making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal  evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make  a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
Ref: DRN210865129affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.  
We have already amended certain  rules  to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example  rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified 
that firms must undertake  a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse  impact  on their financial  situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what  
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee  under  the CCA  in practice this means  we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate  notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest  rates charged on these products 
considering that these  guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy,  we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models  of these firms.
Ref: DRN210865130C information  on Amigos website
In addition to the relevant considerations set out above, I also note that in March 2014 
(around the time when Miss G first applied for an Amigo  loan), the Amigo homepage 
included the following statements (date stamped 26 March 2014):
A cheaper  way to borrow
Our flexible  guarantor loans are around 100th of the APR of a payday  loan and are regularly 
featured by price  comparison sites as the cheapest  option for anyone borrowing £500-£5000  
with a low credit score.
Rebuilding your credit
We want to help make your financial future better; so we report  back to all three credit 
reference agencies,  each month,  showing  your repayments. As payments are made on time 
this will help to build  or rebuild your credit profile.  No information is reported  back to credit 
reference agencies  for guarantors, even if payments are missed, unless the account goes to 
court. 
The what  the papers say section  of the homepage includes a quote from the Daily Mail (I 
understand that this statement remains on the homepage to this day) which  says:
Good stepping-stone loan for those with poor credit histories.
Ref: DRN2108651