K822xcomplaint and background
Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 2004  when he applied  for a mortgage. The policy  gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly  amount for it. When  Mr B 
took out a further advance in 2008  the level of cover on his policy increased.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He didnt think  Mr B had lost out because of 
any problems with the sale in 2004,  but said the bank  had not made it clear the cover was 
optional in 2008. RBS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was not 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr B and RBS to let me have any more 
information by 1 March 2019  before I made  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
RBS responded  to my provisional decision and said it had no further  information  to provide. 
Mr B responded saying  he was still sure he didnt ask for PPI and was told he had to have it 
to get his mortgage. It was just sold to him as part of the deal.  
Ive thought carefully about these comments but with no new evidence  I still think  its most  
likely RBS made it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mr B agreed to take it out. I say this as 
the paperwork available from the sale shows that the PPI was presented as optional.  Mr Bs 
mortgage application included a section where  he indicated he wanted to apply  for PPI. This 
section also gave the option  to decline PPI and it was set out with equal prominence. He also 
signed a separate application form and direct  debit mandate  for the PPI. 
I know this doesnt  fit with what Mr B remembers but I have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might impact what he recalls.  Whilst I cant know what was 
said in the meeting, I havent found anything in the paperwork  that could  reasonably have led 
Mr B to believe  the PPI was mandatory.
It follows I have no reason to change  the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional  
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26087692copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy  in 2004 in one of the banks branches at the same  time as he applied  for a 
mortgage. The policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  He paid a monthly 
amount for it. When Mr B took out a further advance in 2008 the level of cover on his policy increased.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt  think Mr B had lost out because of any 
problems with the sale in 2004, but said the bank had not made it clear the cover was optional in 
2008. RBS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most  likely given  the available  evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it 
here.
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
the 2004  sale
Mr Bs mortgage application included  a section where  he indicated he wanted to apply for PPI. This 
section also gave  the option to decline  PPI and it was set out with equal prominence. He also signed a 
separate application form and direct debit mandate for the PPI.
His mortgage offer confirmed that he had instructed the bank to provide PPI. 
So overall, I think  RBS made it clear  the PPI was optional, and Mr B agreed to take it. 
RBS didnt  recommend PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  the policy  was right for him. However, it 
had to give clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI so he could make a properly  
informed choice.
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr B as much information as it shouldve done.  But I dont  think  better 
information wouldve put him off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
 Mr B was eligible  for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  things not 
covered by the policy. 
 Mr B was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if he was off work  sick. But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to his work benefits and for up to 12 months.  It also gave him 
redundancy cover  for up to 12 months. Mr B was borrowing  quite  a large sum over a number of 
years secured against his home. Given the serious  consequences  of not keeping up with his 
mortgage repayments, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr B if he was sick or lost his job. 
Ref: DRN26087693 I dont know when the cost of the policy was made clear to Mr B but the PPI was competitively 
priced. Mr B has said he wanted  to keep his monthly outgoings as low as possible, but I havent 
seen any evidence  that the cover was unaffordable for him. 
what happened in 2008?
Mr B applied for a further  advance in 2008.  Our adjudicator said RBS had not been able to show that 
it made it clear to Mr B that PPI was optional at this time.  RBS says there was no PPI sale in 2008.  It 
has provided  Mr Bs loan application form which  shows  he didnt  opt to take out a PPI policy at this 
time. Rather,  he amended his existing  policy, increasing  the benefit level, and so in turn the cost. 
I agree that the application  form shows Mr B didnt buy  and the bank didnt  sell - a new,  separate  
policy in 2008. RBS cant provide any documentation or much detail around the circumstances of the 
policy amend.  It says a branch adviser called the insurer on Mr Bs behalf to arrange  this. And a 
revised policy schedule would then have been issued by the insurer.  The insurer cant  provide a copy 
of this but thats not unreasonable given  the time since the sale. Mr B says he wouldnt have agreed 
to increase the cost, so I have to decide what I thinks most likely  to have happened based on the 
available evidence.
RBS has provided  a copy of a letter it sent Mr B after he completed  the application  form for the further 
advance. This said that his loan request had been approved in principle, subject only to the property 
valuation being paid for and completed. Separately, it went on to recommend that if Mr B had PPI he 
should amend the policy to reflect the change to his mortgage value.  It advised  he should  contact the 
insurer to do this. I think this shows Mr B would  have  known changing his policy was optional,  and at 
his discretion. It wasnt listed as a condition  of the loan (unlike the valuation and its fee). Theres 
nothing in the letter that I think could reasonably  have led Mr B to think  any change was mandatory.  
Overall, I think  its most likely Mr B asked  the bank to amend his level of cover  when his monthly  
repayments increased. I can understand he might  not remember this given  how long ago it was. This 
means I dont  think there was a second PPI sale in 2008. 
Had there been, given Mr B says his circumstances  hadnt changed  significantly between 2004 and 
2008 and based on the reasons I set out above as to why Mr B wouldnt have made a different 
decision with better information, I wouldnt conclude RBS mis-sold the cover.
But RBS will have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr B about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business will need to do
RBS will have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that.
RBS should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each  month  because  the commission  and profit share  
it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. RBS should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN26087694I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc will not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608769