K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Leeds Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Leeds  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Rs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  A copy  of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are attached and form part of 
this final decision.  
Leeds and Mr R confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. And no one had 
anything to add after theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Leeds and Mr R didnt  raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision.  So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before for the same reasons. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29780462extract from my provisional  decision
Mr R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. Leeds disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.  
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because Mr R had a medical  condition that 
wouldnt be covered under  the policy. And Leeds didnt  tell Mr R about this. But this policy  provided 
cover if Mr R became  unemployed only. So he wouldnt  have  been stopped from making  a claim  due 
to his medical condition. So the PPI wasnt  unsuitable because of this. Ive looked to see if the policy 
was mis-sold  for any other reason. 
Leeds shouldve made it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve  got Mr Rs agreement to buy it. 
Mr R bought  the PPI policy in a meeting. Mr R and Leeds havent been able to provide much detail 
about what was said in this meeting. And there isnt much paperwork from the time of sale either. 
Thats understandable given the time that has passed. But it means  I dont know what was discussed. 
So Ive thought carefully about  what  Mr R and Leeds have said. And Ive also used what  I know about 
Leeds sales  processes to help me make  my decision. Having done this, I dont have  enough to say 
that its likely  Leeds told Mr R that he needed to buy a PPI policy to start a mortgage.  Overall  I think  
its more likely  that Leeds  made  Mr R aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
Leeds recommended the PPI to Mr R, so it shouldve made sure it was right for him. Mr Rs mortgage 
was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment. If Mr R couldnt work  for a long period of time he 
may have found this difficult to pay. As the mortgage  was secured on his home, Mr R couldve 
potentially lost his property  if he fell into financial  difficulties.  
The PPI wouldve  paid Mr Rs mortgage if he lost his job. The payment wouldve  been in addition to 
any employer, or unemployment  benefits, he might have received if this happened.  It couldve 
provided a payment for up to 12 months per claim.
Ive seen nothing to suggest  Mr R couldnt afford to make  the monthly payments for the PPI at the 
time of sale.  And he doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt 
cover such as pre-existing  medical conditions. So it seems to have been right for him based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Leeds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But 
as I said earlier, based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been 
useful to him. So I dont think better  information  wouldve  stopped him buying  it. And I dont think  Mr 
Rs lost out due to anything that Leeds  mightve done wrong.   
Ref: DRN2978046