K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy after he changed address.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr F told Advantage that hed changed  address. Advantage  charged  him an additional 
premium of around £106 (including its agents  £25 admin fee) to cover  the new address.
Mr F didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think 
Advantage had done anything wrong. Mr F didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I understand that Mr F only moved  around  six miles away from his old address so he doesn't 
think the additional premium is fair. Given the size of the increase in his premium, I can 
understand his concerns. But that doesnt mean Advantage  has treated him unfairly. And its 
usual for insurers to consider that different addresses - even when close  together  - pose 
different risks for which they may charge different premiums.
Were not the industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) is. And its not my 
role to say how much  an insurer should charge,  what factors  it should  assess,  or how much 
risk to attach to each  of those factors. Insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And where a consumer lives is often a significant 
factor in that assessment. Each  insurer will go about  that in its own way. So, when deciding 
if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly,  I look to see if its treated them  the same as it 
would other  consumers with similar  circumstances.
Mr F said that he doesnt feel his new address poses an increased  risk and wanted  
Advantage to justify  the increase in premium.  Ive looked at the factors  that Advantage 
considers have changed after he moved.  Those details are commercially  sensitive, so I cant 
share them with him. I can understand that Mr F might not think thats fair and that 
Advantage isnt being transparent. But insurers wont usually set out how theyve worked out 
a premium to their customers, nor will they share the statistics  on which theyve based those 
calculations. Thats because that information  could give a commercial  edge to their 
competitors. So we dont  expect insurers to make that information publicly available. 
Ref: DRN21602882Ive reviewed the factors that changed Advantages premium calculations.  I can see the 
adjusted premium took into account  relevant factors and how those have changed. So Im 
satisfied that Advantage has treated Mr F as it would other consumers  with similar 
circumstances. And while  I can understand his frustration, I think Advantage has dealt with 
him reasonably. So I dont  intend  to direct  it to take any further action.  
For completeness Ill add that Mr Fs said that he was able to find Advantage offering a 
cheaper premium through a comparison site online. And Advantage agreed to match that 
premium when Mr F contacted it about  renewing his policy. So he thinks that shows that 
Advantage was unfair to charge him an additional premium when he changed address. But I 
don't agree. 
As I've said above Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr F the same as it would its other  
customer s in similar circumstances.  And its common for insurers  to offer discounts  to new 
customers. Its also common for insurers to treat all potential customers  looking for quotes  
from a comparison site as a new customer, regardless  of whether they already hold a policy.  
So insurers  like Advantage might offer people looking for quotes on a comparison site 
discounts that it wouldn't automatically  offer its existing customers. Thats  a commercial 
decision its entitled to take and isn't something that we would interfere with. Similarly, the 
fact that Advantage agreed  to match the online quote at renewal  is a commercial decision 
its entitled to make  in order to retain  Mr Fs business. It wasn't  something  it had to do. And it 
doesn't mean that the additional  premium it charged when he changed address was of itself 
unfair. So Im not going to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
I understand that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr F, particularly as its taken  us far 
longer than we would like to reach this point.  But as I've said above I don't think Advantage 
has treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2160288