K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Santander  UK Plc didnt accept  a document  she sent it as proof of her 
address when opening a credit card. 
background
Miss P applied to open a credit  card with Santander and was asked to send in proof of her 
identification and address.  For proof  of her address she sent in a copy  of a factoring  bill but 
Santander said it couldnt accept it. 
Miss P called Santander and explained  she thought the document  provided had met the 
guidance she was given while going  through her application. But Santander confirmed 
Miss P needed to provide  something else and she went on to forward  a bank statement 
which was accepted. 
During her calls with Santander  it explained there  were problems raising a complaint as she 
didnt have an open account. Miss Ps complaint was subsequently investigated but 
Santander didnt  agree itd made  a mistake.  
As she remained unhappy Miss P referred her concerns to this service  and an adjudicator 
looked at whatd happened. But they didnt  feel Santander  had made an error by rejecting 
the document Miss P provided. Miss P didnt agree so the complaints been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator. Ill explain why. 
Santander is allowed  to decide what documents it will and wont  accept to verify a 
consumers identity and address. In this case, Santander doesnt consider the factoring bill 
Miss P supplied to be a utility bill and thats a decision Im satisfied its entitled to make.  I 
appreciate Miss Ps point that a bill and invoice are essentially names for the same thing but 
I dont think that makes a difference  here as Santander isnt obliged  to accept a document 
that doesnt meet its requirements. 
Generally speaking, utility bills are for essential services (like energy or water  costs) 
provided by national companies. The bill Miss P supplied sets out a factoring arrangement 
(property maintenance) for a block of properties. And as Ive explained,  Santanders free to 
decide what documents to accept so I dont  think its been unreasonable by saying a 
factoring bill isnt the same as a utility bill.
Miss Ps said that she thinks  Santander should  provide  clearer  guidance on what is and isnt 
considered a utility  bill during the application process. But Ive looked at the guidance and I 
think its clear  in setting out what will and wont be accepted. I appreciate  there may be times 
when a customer could  provide something thats  not on the list in good faith, but I dont think  
it would  be practical  to list every form of unacceptable document when arranging a new 
account. 
Ref: DRN23955712I note that Miss P was able to supply a bank statement  instead  of the factoring bill and 
successfully opened  her account.  And I understand it took a little longer to open the account 
as a result. But I dont  think the request to supply different  address verification  was 
unreasonably inconvenient. 
Miss P says when she spoke to Santander about the issue  the service she received was 
poor and the people  she spoke with were rude. But Ive listened  to calls and I didnt hear any 
evidence of poor service  or rudeness. One of the people Miss P spoke with explained there  
were difficulties registering  a complaint because no account had been opened at that stage. 
But I dont think they were trying to dissuade Miss P from raising her complaint and I can see 
shes been able to successfully do that and refer it on to this service. 
Overall, Ive not found Miss P has been  treated unfairly by Santander  or that its made an 
error by requesting  different  information  before it could open  her credit card. As a result, Im 
not telling  Santander to take any further action  to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept  or reject my decision 
before 7 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2395571