K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about how Markerstudy Insurance  Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his stress  and inconvenience.
background 
Mr M reported an incident to Markerstudy  and it asked for his dash cam footage of it. 
Markerstudy instructed  an agent  to collect the footage. Mr M called several times to ask 
when the footage would be collected. Markerstudy  said that when its agent arrived for the 
scheduled appointment Mr M wasnt in. It took a photo of his front door.  But Mr M said no 
such appointment had been made  with him.
our investigators view
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld and that 
Markerstudy should pay Mr M £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
But Markerstudy then provided evidence that an appointment had been made and attempts 
had been made to contact Mr M on the day and prior.  So she didnt then think any 
compensation was warranted.
Mr M replied that the agent hadnt  made an appointment  with him. He asked for evidence  to 
show this was the case. And he asked for his complaint  to be reviewed, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Markerstudy on 15 August 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
I understood that Mr M was disappointed and frustrated  with the service he said hed 
received from Markerstudy. He felt that crucial evidence may have been missed  by 
Markerstudy not collecting the dash cam footage. He said hed had problems with the agent 
previously. As it turned out, Markerstudy was able to obtain  evidence from an independent  
witness to defend the claim. So Mr M wasnt held liable for the accident. His car was 
repaired and he recovered  his excess.  
I saw that having  the dash cam fitted was a requirement of Mr Ms policy  as was providing 
Markerstudy with access to the footage  within 24 hours of an accident. Markerstudy said it 
tried to have the footage collected within 48 hours  to avoid it being overwritten. Markerstudy 
said it instructed its agent the day following Mr Ms notification. But it didnt explain why its 
agent hadnt yet contacted Mr M five days after the accident. 
Markerstudy also said that, after Mr M complained on the sixth day after the accident,  the 
agent had made an appointment  for the following  day but Mr M wasnt present.  Mr M said 
that it was a complete fabrication that an appointment had been made with him and he 
hadnt turned up for it.
From Markerstudys file notes, I saw that Mr M called it once five days  and then several  
times six days  after the accident to ask when the agent would contact him to collect the 
footage. He was concerned that the footage would be overwritten. 
Ref: DRN23000342I also saw that Markerstudy  instructed its agent  to contact Mr M as a priority to collect  the 
footage. It provided  a date stamped image of Mr Ms front door showing that it had attended  
there on the date in question. And it contacted Markerstudy to say that Mr M hadnt been 
present when it arrived. 
So I looked  to see if there was evidence that the agent actually made  an appointment with 
Mr M. From the agents notes, it agreed  that it had been slow to respond due to availability in 
the holiday season. Its system notes show that the appointed photographer  dialled Mr Ms 
number twice on the day he complained. There is a note made 17 seconds after the second 
call that an appointment  had been  made for the following day. But it doesnt  record  a time for 
the appointment. On that day, the photographer  called Mr Ms number twice in quick 
succession in the morning  and then attended his house in the evening.  
I couldnt see the duration of the calls made or of the number called. I checked that 
Markerstudy had the correct number for Mr M. Recordings of the phone calls werent 
available as the photographers use personal  phones. The agent said the photographer  
called Mr Ms number  when he was on the way and when he arrived at the address but there 
was no answer. However these calls werent recorded on the system notes it provided us.
But Mr M was adamant that no call was made  to him. The previous day hed called 
Markerstudy several times to complain about not having had a call from the agent six days 
after the accident as he wanted  the footage collected. So, on balance,  I couldnt see any 
reason not to believe Mr Ms account that no appointment was made  with him. From what I 
could see, it seems that the photographer  tried to call Mr M in the morning and then turned 
up at his door without  an appointment.  
I couldnt see that this caused Mr M any loss or prejudice as his claim was settled and he 
recovered his policy excess. But I saw that he was caused inconvenience by having  to call 
Markerstudy several times to chase up the agent.  He was caused upset because  he then 
thought the dash cam footage would hold him not liable for the accident and he was worried 
it would  be overwritten. 
So I thought  Markerstudy  should compensate Mr M for this. And I thought it should pay him 
£100 compensation for its level of service.  This is in keeping  with the level Id award  in 
similar circumstances.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Markerstudy, my provisional  decision was 
that I intended to uphold  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr M and Markerstudy  replied that they accepted my provisional  decision, so I can see 
no reason to change  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr M £100 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its 
level of service. 
Ref: DRN23000343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2300034