K821x#15complaint
The three complainants in this case  Mr S, Mrs S, and Ms S  are unhappy  that HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc didnt do enough to help them when they were the victims  of a scam.
background
The complainants  hold a joint account with HSBC. On 25 July 2018, Ms S was contacted  by 
a scammer purporting to be from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC). She was 
told she was under investigation  for Tax Fraud Evasion. The scammer told her that letters  
had been sent to her home  address in December 2017 and March 2018. Ms S said she had 
recently moved and that she hadnt got the letters. 
She says the scammer was aggressive  in tone and told her there  was due to be a court  
hearing the following day. She was warned the potential consequences of this could be the 
seizure of her assets, deportation and up to two years  in prison. Ms S says she was given 
the opportunity  to avoid the court appearance by paying the outstanding  amount of £4,598 
immediately either in branch or via bank transfer.  She was told the payment would go to an 
account with HMRC in her name  that had been set up for that purpose. She was given the 
sort code  and account number.
Ms S went into a HSBC  branch and made  the transfer from her joint account. She describes 
being seen by a member  of staff standing in the open area of the branch, not over the 
counter. She also says she wasnt asked any questions about  the transaction by the staff in 
branch. 
Shortly after making the payment in branch, Ms S had misgivings and contacted  the genuine 
HMRC and discovered shed been the victim  of a scam. She immediately called HSBC to try 
to stop the payment. HSBC contacted the recipient bank  but unfortunately were  told no 
funds remained.  
Ms S complained, she doesnt  think HSBC acted  promptly enough  to try to stop the funds. 
HSBC said they couldnt offer a refund or assist further with the recovery  of the funds which  
was a civil matter  between Ms S and the beneficiary  account  holder. Being unhappy with this 
response, Ms S referred the matter  to our service. 
One of our investigators  thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought HSBC ought 
to have asked  Ms S questions about the payment she was instructing.  And she thought  it 
more likely than not that if they had, the scam  would have been discovered  and the payment 
wouldnt have been sent. So, she recommended HSBC refund the £4,598  payment and add 
8% interest. HSBC didnt  accept this outcome and raised a number  of further points.  As an 
agreement couldnt  be found the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
In September  2020 I issued a provisional  decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
this complaint for the following reasons:  
1.It is common ground that Ms S authorised the scam payment of £4,598. She was 
tricked into doing  so believing (at the time) that she was paying  a genuine tax bill.
Ref: DRN204902022.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms S was the victim of a 
scam. She provided  a valid instruction in branch. So, although she didnt intend  to 
pay the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms of 
her account, Ms S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that their customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things),  
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Taken additional steps or made additional checks  in some circumstances 
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm  from fraud;  and
Followed the Banking Protocol where  appropriate for branch transactions  such  as 
this.
4.Ive looked  at the account statements going  back to May 2017,  which  I consider gives 
a good sample  size to assess what was typical activity for the account.  The account 
was generally well managed, was typically  in a credit balance,  but had an arranged 
overdraft of up to £5,000  available.  There was a large payment of note in November 
2017 for £15,000. But most payments leaving the account were generally  for under 
£1,200. In the six months prior to the transaction in question,  the largest payment to 
leave the account  looks to be an internal transfer  between HSBC accounts  for 
£3,000. But there was nothing else within that time period  approaching the £4,598  
that was sent as a result of the scam.
5.Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that Ms Ss request  to transfer 
£4,598 was unusual and out of character. It was for more than was typically 
transferred. It was also to a new payee  that had been set up for the purpose of this 
payment and it was made in branch, which was an unusual way for the complainants  
to operate their account, something  they commonly did online.  
6.It also appears that when making the payment, Ms Ss identity wasnt  verified through  
her chip and PIN. Shes described giving her instruction to a staff member  in an open  
area, rather than over the counter. HSBC have provided a signed payment authority  
slip in relation to the payment. And whilst HSBC havent been  able to provide 
records, its likely  in line with standard industry  practice  that they would have 
conducted due diligence to verify Ms Ss identity before allowing the payment. In 
these circumstances,  and in the process  of checking her identity, I think  its 
reasonable to expect  HSBC to make some  enquiries of her as to the nature of the 
payment being  instructed. 
7.Some of HSBCs submissions suggest that there was no interaction  between their 
staff and Ms S at the time of the transaction. On the evidence,  Im satisfied this is 
incorrect and that there was interaction  to facilitate  the payment  the signed 
Ref: DRN20490203payment authority slip supports this. Ms Ss recollection  which I accept  is that 
HSBC didnt ask any questions of her in relation to the payment. I would have 
expected HSBC to have  asked suitable,  probing  questions designed to get into and 
test the detail of any story she would have provided.  Particularly  given the 
requirement of the Banking Protocol to be aware that victims are often given a cover 
story. 
8.A scam of this nature  was very common at the time and I think  its implausible that a 
large international bank like HSBC wouldnt have been aware of it. Ms S also wasnt 
coached with any cover  story  by the scammers, so I think  she would have truthfully 
answered questions  if asked. Had she disclosed that she had been called out of the 
blue with a demand to pay a tax bill or face draconian legal action, I think  HSBC  
would probably  have warned her that this closely fits the circumstances of a well-
known scam. I think that, but for HSBCs  failure to ask questions,  the scam probably  
would not have succeeded.  HSBC  have pointed out that Ms S listed herself as the 
beneficiary of the payment. This was on instructions from the scammer to an 
account set up in her name with HMRC. But I still think  its most likely, if asked, that 
she would have  explained it was to pay a tax bill. 
9.My conclusions  about what was likely to have happened if HSBC had asked suitable  
questions is supported by the fact that, shortly after making the payment,  Ms S made  
enquiries of the genuine HMRC. It appears that, on reflection, she started to entertain  
doubts about the payment  she had just instructed. If the staff had asked questions in 
line with the banks legal and regulatory  duties, and the relevant codes/protocol, it 
seems probable that Ms S (and/or the staff) would  have become alerted to the scam  
and wouldnt have  followed through with her payment instruction there and then, as a 
result of which the scam would have failed and the complainants wouldnt have lost 
£4,598.
10.In light of my conclusion above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether  
HSBC also exercised enough care and urgency when trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  But for completeness, by the time HSBC  were 
notified of the scam, nearly  all the funds had already been removed from the 
beneficiary account  so I dont think they could  reasonably have done more on that 
particular issue. 
11.I have  also considered whether  Ms S should  bear some  responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence, especially given how quickly  she entertained misgivings 
after the transaction. However, it is clear that when  making the payment she had 
been convinced  that this was a genuine  demand  for taxes  and was scared  of the 
potential consequences  of not complying. The use of official  sounding and formal 
language, and the description of the potential for severe  consequences  persuaded 
her this was the case. I dont think Ms S can fairly  be described as having been 
negligent. She was the victim of a sophisticated scam. HSBC are the finance 
professionals and Ms S was an average  consumer with no knowledge of such  
scams, who had been cleverly  duped into complying under the threat  of prison, 
deportation or seizure  of assets. People under  pressure often dont think or see 
things clearly  but then suddenly have a lightbulb moment  as soon as they are out 
of the room or freed  from the stressful situation. 
12.HSBC say that if this complaint were to proceed to a civil claim in court their 
obligations would be measured against the so-called  Quincecare  duty.  They point out 
Ref: DRN20490204this case states that the law should  not impose too burdensome an obligation on 
bankers, which  hampers the effective transaction of banking business  unnecessarily  
and that to impose liability whenever  speculation might suggest  dishonesty would 
impose wholly impractical standards on bankers. We take account  of the law but are 
not bound  by it when reaching  an outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But in any event,  I am not persuaded the outcome would be any 
different at law. This was not a case of mere  speculation  but of reasonable grounds 
for a prudent professional banker to foresee the risk of fraud and financial harm to an 
ordinary retail customer/consumer  such as Ms S. And especially when the instruction 
was given in branch with a face to face opportunity to intervene. Whichever  lens one 
looks through  be it the law, regulatory codes and guidance, good industry practice,  
etc  the fair and reasonable outcome is the same: there were enough triggers of 
unusual and uncharacteristic  activity with Ms Ss instruction to pay £4,598 to a new 
payee that HSBC objectively  had reason to be concerned that she might be at risk of 
financial harm. Had they intervened, its likely the scam would have unravelled, and 
this loss would not have  occurred. 
13.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse the complainants for the loss they have suffered without any reduction,  
together with interest to compensate for being deprived of the money they lost from 
the account. 
14.I also think that a modest compensation award  of £300 should  be made for the 
distress and inconvenience the complainants have suffered. In reaching that 
conclusion, I am mindful that much of the distress was caused by the criminal act of 
fraudsters who tricked  Ms S into authorising  the transaction  but HSBC  ultimately 
could have prevented this. HSBC have suggested that 8% is a punitive rate of 
interest that isnt fair to apply in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered 
this but I dont agree. Im not suggesting  that Ms S would have otherwise invested 
and achieved a return of 8%. But, given the average  costs  of borrowing over time, it 
has long been  our approach that this is a suitable  rate to compensate for being 
deprived of the funds  and I remain satisfied it is fair to apply it in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, but subject to any further information I receive from either  
the complainants or HSBC UK Bank  Plc, Im intending to uphold this complaint and require 
the bank to:
Pay £4,598  to the complainants within 28 days of receiving notification of their 
acceptance of my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the 
date of refund;
Pay the complainants  £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience within  28 
days of receiving notification of their acceptance  of my final decision,  failing  which 
interest will accrue thereafter on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until 
payment.
The complainants  responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.  HSBC 
responded and made a number of further points which  Ill address below. Now both sides 
have had the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead  with my final decision.  
Ref: DRN20490205my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC say that if they were required to intervene in all transactions  like that of Ms Ss, then 
this would result in significant  customer  detriment  with vast numbers of payments being held 
up each day. I acknowledged  in my provisional decision that there  is a balance to be struck 
and I appreciate the difficulties faced by banks  in meeting the competing  requirements to 
provide efficient banking services  to their customers, whilst also being alert to fraud.  The 
systems and procedures HSBC put in place to manage those competing  demands are a 
matter for them. But I maintain, for the reasons explained above,  that in Ms Ss case and the 
circumstances specific to this complaint, there  was enough going on for a prudent  banker to 
objectively have concerns that ought to have prompted  some intervention  by the bank.   
HSBC feel that my findings  implied  that Ms S was not required to meet  even a basic  duty of 
care in respect of her own actions. They maintain that Ms S was negligent and should be 
responsible for the loss, or in the alternative, a proportion of the loss through contributory  
negligence. They also question whether it was reasonable for Ms S, who they say has a 
degree of financial  sophistication, to be taken  in by such a scam. In summary  they say she 
would have had some familiarity with her own tax affairs, and that she reasonably ought to 
have made  checks with HMRC or her employer  before making a payment on the spur of the 
moment. 
Ive carefully considered  this. I agree that customers have a duty to act responsibly and to 
take reasonable steps to protect themselves from potential fraud. I just dont agree, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, that Ms S failed in that way. It is also worth  noting that there  
is a significant  imbalance in knowledge and familiarity with the methodologies of fraudsters 
between a large international bank and a customer such as Ms S. 
With the benefit of hindsight  and with the luxury  of time to consider the events that Ms S 
describes, I can understand the points  that HSBC have raised. But what  I dont think  has 
sufficiently been  considered in their response  is the pressure Ms S was placed under by the 
no doubt skilled and proficient scammer.  This wasnt a crude  scam with obvious risks that 
were recognised and recklessly ignored  by Ms S. She isnt alone in being  a victim of a scam 
like this, and part of the reason such scams  are successful is the pressure and sense  of 
urgency created by the scammer. This is against the backdrop of being told that she was 
facing serious legal consequences if she didnt  comply.  I dont  think  the fact that once 
released from the pressure of the situation, Ms S was more able to see and identify  the risks, 
changes this. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I dont think Ms S acted negligently. She 
was taking steps which, at the time,  she believed  were required to comply  with the 
authorities to settle a tax demand. And for the reasons explained in my provisional decision,  
I think HSBC,  as the finance professionals,  could  and should have intervened  and that this 
would have prevented the loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN20490206HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay £4,598  to the complainants within 28 days of receiving notification of their 
acceptance of my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the 
date of refund;
Pay the complainants  £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience within  
28 days of receiving  notification of their acceptance of my final decision, failing which 
interest will accrue thereafter on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the complainants  
to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2049020