K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc linked her home insurance policy to her mortgage  
without fully informing  her of the costs implications. 
background
In 2007, Mrs D applied  for a mortgage  with Halifax, now part of Bank of Scotland  plc. A 
condition on the mortgage was for Mrs D to take out a buildings insurance policy, although 
not necessarily with Halifax. Mrs D did that and a home insurance  policy  was set up on 
28 September 2007. 
Mrs D complains Halifax didnt inform her that interest would be applied  to the monthly 
payments. Therefore, Mrs D considers Halifax has acted unfairly  and should  provide her with 
a refund of the interest shes paid since 2007.  
Halifax said it sent regular  correspondence to Mrs D which set out the costs  involved. It also 
said a booklet  was provided to Mrs D stating if home  insurance  is arranged, Halifax would 
pay the cost of the policy to the insurance  company. And this amount would be repaid 
monthly by the policyholder with interest  on the unpaid part of the premium. 
Halifax also said it provided Mrs D with annual  mortgage statements  which  outlined the cost 
of the mortgage  payments, and the additional home insurance premium applied  to the 
monthly payments.  It said Mrs D was also sent insurance renewal documents  which stated  
interest would  be charged if the premium isnt paid in full. 
Mrs D said she attended financial reviews. During  these financial reviews,  Mrs D argues  it 
wasnt brought to her attention that she could find a cheaper alternative and her home 
insurance premium was accruing interest.  
Mrs D maintains that Halifax shouldve done  more both at the point of sale, and during her 
policy term and financial reviews, to make her aware  of the cost implications of linking her 
mortgage payment  and home insurance premiums. She therefore considers  Halifax  should 
refund the interest applied to the premiums she paid during the term. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She acknowledged there was limited 
information available given the time thats  passed  since 2007. So she based  her assessment 
on the information available to her. 
Having carried out her review, our investigator  was of the opinion that Halifax  had taken 
reasonable steps to keep Mrs D fully updated and informed  about what she was paying for. 
She wasnt persuaded the documentation  on file was unclear or misleading, and therefore 
concluded Mrs D wouldnt have done  anything differently in any event had she known about 
the interest applied to the insurance premium. 
Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view. She maintained she wasnt  informed that 
paying both her mortgage payments  and home  insurance premium as one payment would 
incur additional  costs. Mrs D also said she disagreed that the correspondence Halifax 
provided clearly stipulates interest  would be payable. As the outcome of the case  remains  in 
dispute, its been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN22002292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view and for broadly the same  reasons. I appreciate  this will disappoint Mrs D, 
so I will now explain  why. 
The application for Mrs Ds mortgage  and subsequent  home insurance policy sale took place 
in 2007. Due to the time that has passed there is limited information available,  I am unable to 
base my decision on records of what was said during the sale. And so I have based my 
decision on the information that has been made  available  to me. 
Mrs D accepts she opted in for her mortgage  payment  and home insurance premium  to be 
linked. A condition on Mrs Ds mortgage application  was to have a buildings insurance policy 
in place. What  Mrs D argues is she was unaware  of the cost implications of doing so. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the information Halifax provided to Mrs D on file. Within Mrs 
Ds mortgage offer Halifax made in 2007,  it states  theres no requirement for the applicant to 
purchase any insurance from Halifax itself. Therefore, the onus is on the applicant to decide 
which provider they wish to choose based on their own requirements and suitability. I 
understand Mrs D accepts this. And Mrs D says she decided to buy the home insurance as 
the product  appeared good and the costs were  competitive at the time. So Im satisfied that 
Mrs D wasnt misled when she took out the insurance policy.
Ive seen a letter dated 1 October 2007 from Halifax  to Mrs D advising that her mortgage  
account was now open. This letter summarises the mortgage payments  and interest rates 
and sets out what happens  if interest rates change.
When we review your account,  for example at an interest  rate change, we will recalculate
your new monthly payment over the remaining  mortgage term. We will include the
following where applicable;
All unpaid fees together with any interest  charged on the fees.
Any unpaid balance on your annual insurance premium including  any interest 
charged on the premium. (This will only apply if you have  arranged  your insurance 
through Halifax General Insurance and the annual  premium  is debited to your 
mortgage).
Ive also looked  at a copy of Halifaxs mortgage  conditions and within  the section called 
insuring your property it says If we insure your property we can add the
cost to your loan and we can charge  you interest on it. 
So whilst I dont know what was said during the mortgage application  process, based on 
what Ive seen Im satisfied that the information provided to Mrs D was not misleading. It was 
made clear that Halifax could charge  interest if it insured the property.
Turning to the mortgage statements provided  by Halifax to Mrs D from 2013,  each state  a 
property insurance  premium may have been added  to your account. We will tell you before 
we charge it and we will pay the insurance company on your behalf. We will charge you 
interest on the premium  until it is repaid. Any interest and unpaid part(s)  of the annual 
premium are included in your outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN22002293In addition to the mortgage statements, Halifax also sent insurance renewal documents that 
stated please note if you do not pay the premium  in full at renewal we will charge interest on 
it. Mrs D said this information should be considered small print and unclear. But Im not 
persuaded by that and therefore disagree,  I think the information within  both the mortgage 
statements and renewal  documentation is clear. 
Mrs D said she contacted  Halifax in 2011  to explain she had dual-insurance. For clarity, 
dual-insurance occurs  when a policyholder has two policies in place that cover the same 
perils. I note Mrs D was asked which policy she chose  to continue with, and she chose to 
maintain the monthly linked mortgage  payments  and home  insurance  premiums. 
Its common practice for a provider  to charge interest if a policyholder decides to pay their 
insurance premium in monthly  instalments rather  than in full. And Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not, had Mrs D decided to change insurer she wouldve incurred  interest charges 
had she opted  to pay the insurance in monthly  instalments. 
While I cannot reach  a decision based on what was said in 2007 due to the limited  
information available,  Im persuaded from what Ive seen in the circumstances of this case, 
that on balance,  Halifax took reasonable steps  to make Mrs D aware of the cost implications 
of the home insurance premium being  linked to her monthly mortgage payments. I 
appreciate Mrs Ds frustration; however based  on the information currently available to me I 
dont agree that Halifax has done anything wrong here. 
Im not persuaded Mrs D wouldve  done  anything differently as its very likely  she wouldve 
incurred interest had she gone  to a different provider and opted to pay for her home 
insurance in monthly  instalments through an arranged credit agreement. So I wont be 
asking Halifax to do anything here.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2200229