K821x#15complaint
Ms W is unhappy  with her home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited in relation 
to a claim she made to it for storm damage.
background
Ms Ws home  was damaged by a storm and Lloyds accepted her claim. There  were  some 
problems at the outset but the parties overcame them and the claim moved on. By April 
2016 Ms W was expecting reinstatement work  to start imminently but the contractor told 
Lloyds it was still waiting  for authorisation. Lloyds  said it had given this already.
By the end of April 2016 Ms W was becoming  concerned that work hadnt started. It was 
agreed that the bathroom would be worked on whilst  Ms W was away  in May and be 
reinstated fully by the time of her return on 18 May. This didnt happen.  Ms W came home 
late to find she needed to book into a hotel.
Ms W was concerned about  what work  was to be done  and, at the end of October 2016, 
following the repairs apparently being completed, Ms W produced a snagging list. Lloyds 
didnt consider this until mid-January 2017. The contractor took some time to reply to Lloyds 
and an appointment was arranged for the snagging issues  to be assessed  in March 2017.
Lloyds felt that a list of issues that needed repair  was agreed at that meeting. Ms W 
maintained she hadnt  agreed  that list equated to everything she felt Lloyds  was liable for. 
She appointed her own surveyor. Lloyds said it wouldnt pay for this. In August 2017 the 
surveyor produced  a report in which he made 28 recommendations  for repair  by Lloyds. He 
priced all this work at £21,000. Lloyds said it would only pay for the work agreed at its 
meeting in March  2017. The price of that, it said, was £534.43.
Lloyds also responded to Ms W regarding concerns shed  raised  about  the conduct  of its 
contractors whilst working in her home. It said the contractors denied  the allegations shed 
made about them sleeping in her bed and cooking  meat in her kitchen. Lloyds said as there  
was no proof  to support Ms Ws concerns it couldnt reasonably  accept the situations had 
occurred as reported. So it wasnt minded to pay any compensation for this. It did accept 
though that there had been delays, poor customer service and poor workmanship during 
the repairs. For the upset  caused by all that it offered  £250  compensation.
Our investigator felt Lloyds should carry out some further work at Ms Ws property and that 
the claim had taken too long to reach the point it had. He felt total compensation of £750  
should be paid.  He also felt that Lloyds should refund half of the cost of Ms Ws surveyors 
report.
Lloyds wasnt happy to do further  repairs, it felt settling in cash  was fair. It agreed  to pay the 
compensation and half of the cost of the surveyors report.
Ms W didnt  agree in respect of repairs. She also felt the offer of compensation didnt  
address how badly shed been  treated.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I felt it should  carry out work  or 
pay for it to be done, as well as reimburse  Ms Ws cost incurred for obtaining the surveyors  
report and pay her £750 compensation. As my view differed from the investigator,  I issued a 
provisional decision. Ive copied my provisional findings here:
Ref: DRN24646692my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
settlement
I think Lloyds can reasonably settle  in cash if Ms W wants it to. As long as it makes such  a 
settlement based  on what it will cost Ms W to do that work. Lloyds could only insist on 
settling in cash at its cost, at this stage, if Ms W had frustrated the repair contract  it entered  
into when it began reinstating her home. Im not convinced shes  done that. Although
I accept that relations between her and the contractor are clearly  broken beyond repair.
Im not sure how Ms W wants  to conclude this claim. As her costs  for work have, in the 
main, been  estimated, Im going  to set out below what work I think Lloyds is responsible 
and it will have to pay for if Ms W chooses  to take cash. If Ms W wants  Lloyds to do the 
work, I think  it will need to do that but by appointing a different contractor.
outstanding repairs
Lloyds contractor considered points raised by Ms Ws surveyor but Lloyds didnt address 
these issues in its final response letter. Lloyds final response offered £534.43 for work it 
accepted needed doing and it wasnt prepared, seemingly, to entertain that anything  further  
was necessary. The work detailed is different to any identified by Ms Ws surveyor and is 
based on what the contractor would charge Lloyds for that work. Im not sure what  the cost 
of this work  would be for Ms W. Lloyds can either have this re-priced on national rates or it 
can pay for Ms Ws surveyor to price the work.
Ive seen no good reason for Lloyds  entirely ignoring the surveyors  report. It is an expert  
opinion that, at least in part, supports Ms Ws view that more  work needs to be done than 
Lloyds has so far accepted. But I cant reasonably say Lloyds  must  just accept its contents. 
Sometimes I might, as a surveyors opinion will often be seen to trump that of a contractor. 
Especially a contractor that was involved  in the repairs that are in question. But I note that 
in this report the surveyor doesnt really  seem to have given consideration throughout to 
whether or not the issues he is recommending be repaired have likely resulted from storm 
damage and/or poor workmanship or not. And I note that at points in his report he is often 
basing his findings, at least in part, on what Ms W told him happened.  So his view isnt 
entirely persuasive or independent.
Therefore, I think its reasonable to use his report as a basis for my findings but for me to 
draw my own conclusions about  what Lloyds must do having  taken into account all the 
circumstances and responses. And Ill only be able to fairly and reasonably say Lloyds is 
liable for carrying out any repair if I find the need for it has resulted from storm damage, 
poor work or from some  agreement having been  reached for that work  to be done. Where I 
find Lloyds likely has liability my award will be based  on the costs set out by the surveyor.
The surveyor makes 28 recommendations with associated costs.
Ms W accepts that points 6, 14, 15 and 19 are for her to resolve. So Ill say no more  about 
these.
Ref: DRN24646693Lloyds contractor accepts  points 1, 4, 8, 10 and 11 made by the surveyor. The total cost for 
these five items is £560. So, Ill make Lloyds pay this sum.
1 accepted
Point 2  making  good of other cracks and joints in kitchen. The surveyor  says that 
regarding existing issues, not related to the storm damage or repairs,  a competent repairer 
would likely  rectify these  too. So he thinks Lloyds should. Lloyds  has no policy  obligation in 
this respect. And the points in focus  here havent  been caused by Lloyds poor work. Im not 
going to make Lloyds  pay this.
Point 3  preparation  of woodwork. The surveyor  finds this work, which  was part of the 
schedule, has been done poorly. Lloyds contractor says this wasnt  on the schedule.  Ive 
seen the schedule. It includes glossing woodwork. Part of competently completing  this type 
of task is preparing  the surface.  Ms W shouldnt be left with poorly  finished  work. Im 
satisfied Lloyds needs to pay this cost  £60.
4 accepted
Point 5  fill gaps  in gable elevation. The surveyor says the gaps  will allow rain in which 
may cause  further  damage,  so should be filled. Lloyds requirement under the policy  is to 
carry out repair of storm damage. The gaps in the gable wall are unlikely to have resulted 
from storm damage  and I note Ms Ws surveyor doesnt suggest they have.  He seems to 
think they might let water in. But he doesnt conclude that the repairs  Lloyds has carried  out 
are likely at risk with the gaps left in place. So Lloyds didnt and doesnt reasonably  need  to 
fix these in order to protect its repairs (ensure  theyre long-lasting). Im not going to make it 
pay for this.
6 accepted
Point 7  make good cracks. The surveyor said Ms W saw cracks appear on the bedroom  
wall that adjoined  the bathroom  when work  was carried  out in the bathroom. On that basis 
he says Lloyds should resolve these  cracks.  Lloyds  contractor  hasnt  accepted this aspect. 
Its important for me that the surveyor hasnt provided an expert opinion on whether  these  
cracks were likely caused by Lloyds  contractors work in the bathroom.  Without  such an 
opinion I cant reasonably find that Lloyds  is responsible for resolving this damage.  Im not 
going to make it pay for this.
8 accepted
Point 9  make good cracks. The surveyor says this relates to an area of extensive
re-plastering by Lloyds so it should resolve the cracking. The contractor denies this. Ive 
seen the scope and it included plastering in this area.  I think  Lloyds reasonably  needs  to 
pay for this item  £80.
10 and 11 accepted
Point 12  repair  flue. The surveyor says the contractor said it sealed  the flue. But he found 
a towel was put in place  to catch  water. Lloyds contractor says it didnt put the towel  there, 
it only sealed the flue from the outside. As the contractor was working on the roof, I think  it 
likely sealed the flue externally. Having  done that thered be no need for anything  internally  
to be done. And Ms Ws surveyor hasnt  tested the external  seal or shown or concluded that 
Ref: DRN24646694it isnt watertight. He doesnt seem to have  checked if the flue was sealed externally and 
rather has assumed that the towel indicates  inadequate work. So I think his finding  in this 
respect is flawed. Im not going to make  Lloyds pay for this.
Point 13  replace rear parapet/valley gutter. The surveyor thinks this is improperly formed,  
allowing debris  to build  up and water to overflow. Whilst this may be true it isnt something 
caused by the storm or Lloyds contractors poor work. So its replacement isnt something
I can fairly require Lloyds to pay for. 
14 and 15 accepted
Point 16  specialist vermin assessment. The surveyor noted wasps nests  and vermin.  He 
said this needed  a specialist to assess on removal and prevention.  That may well be 
necessary but Im not persuaded  its necessary as a result of storm damage or poor works 
by Lloyds contractor.  For example,  Ive found that Lloyds isnt responsible  for the holes in 
the gable end (point  5). These might well be the route by which the wasps and vermin are 
entering. Or in any number of other ways. I cant, therefore, reasonably conclude that 
theyre most  likely entering  through  incomplete or poorly competed  works. If its shown that 
they are then Id likely say Lloyds  should be liable for assessment, removal and related 
repair costs. But not on the basis of a possibility. So Im not going to make  Lloyds pay for 
this.
Point 17  remove and replace insulation and re-floor loft. This is one of Ms Ws biggest 
concerns. She says Lloyds contractor lifted boarding and didnt replace it. She says the loft 
was fully boarded  before  Lloyds contractor  carried out repairs  to her home.  She says there 
are contractors who can confirm this. Shes provided testimony from family members. The 
surveyor has commented on the issue in his report.  Lloyds contractor says it didnt take up 
the flooring.
Ive not seen any evidence from any contractors. If I had I might have to consider how 
persuasive I found their comments. I say this because a contractor visiting to, say, assess  a 
flue, might  not pay too much attention to the floor. And it is known that some loose floor 
boards were  in place  in some areas. So it isnt necessarily the case thered have been no 
safe walk way. And it isnt uncommon  for traders to utilise joists  in lofts for access  for work 
(depending on what that work is). So I cant fairly conclude,  based on invoices for work
Ms W has had done in the loft area,  that this must mean the loft was fully floored.
Ms Ws family  have attested to the fact it was fully boarded. But Im not a judge or in any 
position to test what they say. And I dont  consider  them to be independent  or non-biased 
because they are family. So their testimony isnt something I can reasonably rely upon to 
find in favour  of Ms W.
The surveyor is more akin to an independent  assessor, although he took on this work for 
Ms W, rather than acting  jointly. But he hasnt  carried out any assessment of his own in this 
respect. Rather he seems  to have relied upon  what Ms W has said about  how the loft was 
before. But he also clarified that loose boards were in place and he was unable  to tell 
whether they (or any other boards) had been previously fixed  to the joists.
With regret for any upset this will likely  cause to Ms W, Im not going to make  Lloyds  pay for 
this repair.
Point 18  drain  down  and clean storage tank. The surveyor recommended  this was done 
Ref: DRN24646695but didnt explain  why he felt this was appropriate.  Ms W said its an open tank that provides 
drinking water for the property and Lloyds put a beam on top of it contaminating its 
contents. Lloyds  contractor denies  this and it isnt clear to me if it likely did or didnt. But if 
the tank was always  open that means its always been open to vermin  as well as other  
sources of contamination. And Ive said above it hasnt been shown that Lloyds is 
responsible for any vermin having  access to the loft. And contamination by vermin is far 
more serious than a bit of dirt and debris from timber. So Im not satisfied that the need for 
decontaminating the tank likely stems  from anything  Lloyds  contractor  may have done. Im 
not going to make Lloyds pay for this work.
19 accepted
Point 20  replace leadwork (front elevation) and timbers beneath. The timbers in this area 
are rotten. The surveyor said according to Ms W the contractors  removed lead in this area. 
The surveyor said whilst it isnt clear if the storm might  have caused  the timbers  to rot, they 
likely have suffered with the leadwork having  been  removed.  The contractors deny 
removing lead work. Im satisfied that rot is not damage I would  typically associate with a 
one-off incident  of storm. Rot is damage  which occurs over time and usually  as a result  of 
timbers being  exposed to weather without being  properly  treated or maintained.  And there 
is no proof that the contractors removed lead work. I know  Ms W says it was there before 
and she has neighbours who can attest  to that. But that type of testimony, along with any 
defence the contractor might want to present, is the sort of evidence that needs testing 
under oath.
Essentially it is the type of evidence a court  would be able to fully consider. I cant  say, 
based on the limited  information I have, that Ms W and her neighbours are more likely to be 
right than the contractor.  Im not going  to make Lloyds pay for this repair.
Point 21  repair  stopend (on gutter).  The surveyor said Ms W told him that the contractor 
promised it would fix this. At the point of his visit it was dripping. He said it should be 
repaired. The contractor  said it accepted  no lability for this. Ive seen no evidence  this was 
caused by storm  damage or poor work.  And it is Ms Ws word against  the contractor that an 
agreement was reached for its repair. Im not going  to make Lloyds pay for this.
Point 22  replace and review skylight flashings.  The surveyor said lifting, sorting  the ply 
beneath and re-fitting the flashing was on the schedule. He says the flashing is fitted 
incorrectly, allowing water  ingress  and causing damage. The contractor says this is a
pre-existing issue it isnt responsible for. Ive seen the schedule. It does require flashing to 
be lifted and then re-fitted. Therefore, looking at Lloyds contractors answer,  it either didnt 
do the work scheduled, or if it did it re-fitted  without allowing for rectification of a pre-existing 
problem which was causing damage  and which if left, would likely compromise the repaired 
ply-board underneath. Im satisfied Lloyds fairly needs to pay for this to be rectified   £400.
Point 23  replacement concrete tiles. The surveyor noted the schedule  provided for 
repairing tiles. He said he noted various cracked  and damaged tiles across  the roof. The 
contractors response was the same as across many  other  areas  this doesnt relate to 
storm damage and is a pre-existing issue. I dont find the contractors response in this case  
to be persuasive. It was accepted there  was a storm and that various tiles on the roof were 
damaged and in need  of repair. Ive seen no evidence that the contractor fixed  all of the 
identified storm damaged tiles, or that the remaining damaged tiles likely pre-date the 
storm. And cracked/damaged tiles are something Id typically  associate with storm damage.
Therefore, Im going  to require Lloyds to pay for this repair  £500.
Ref: DRN24646696Point 24  review tile fixing (no allowance for repair yet). The surveyor  said nails were 
missing and this might  allow the tiles to slip. So he felt this should be further assessed. The 
contractor denied liability for this. Im satisfied that missing nails is not damage  typically  
associated with storm damage. And Ive seen  no evidence that makes me think  that the 
nails are missing due to poor work  by the contractor. Im not going to make  Lloyds pay for 
this.
Point 25  repair  flashing  (bathroom vent pipe).  The surveyor says this has been incorrectly 
installed. I note the schedule  didnt  allow for any related  repair to this item/in this area 
(unlike point 22 above).  So Im not persuaded the incorrect  fitment  has resulted from 
Lloyds contractors work. And because the finding is that its been incorrectly fitted,  it isnt 
in need of repair due to storm damage.  Im not going to make  Lloyds pay for this.
Point 26  specialist rot assessment.  The surveyor isnt clear  as to why this is felt to be 
needed. But, in any event, as I said above, rot is not typical  storm damage. And Ive seen 
no evidence that poor work by Lloyds contractor  might have caused rot. Im not going to 
make Lloyds pay for this.
Point 27  realign gutter and make good  felt. The surveyor says the gutter is misaligned 
and the felt is damaged so it isnt directing water  into the gutter. Whilst it seems like these 
are problems Ms W might want to address, I cant see any likely  reason why Lloyds should 
be seen as being responsible for them. Im not going to make Lloyds pay for this.
Point 28  replace detached beam. The surveyor suggests how this beam may have been 
damaged by Lloyds contractor.  And this supposition  is based on an event Ms W reported to 
him. Lloyds  contractor denies liability.  Whilst I understand why Ms W thinks Lloyds should 
replace this beam, I havent seen any persuasive evidence either linking it to storm damage  
or poor work  by Lloyds  contractor. Im not going to make Lloyds pay for this.
Summary  Im satisfied that there  is work outstanding at Ms W property that Lloyds is 
reasonably liable for. Therefore, it will either have to carry out the repairs or pay Ms W so 
she can have the work  done. If Ms W chooses to take cash  Lloyds will have to pay the
£534.43 previously  promised if not paid already,  plus an additional payment to account for 
what the related  work will cost Ms W. It will also have to pay her a total of £1,600 for the 
points it has agreed liability for and which  Ive found  it liable for from the surveyors  report.
As the surveyors report has influenced  my decision,  and assuming they continue to do so 
in my final decision, Id expect Lloyds to reimburse the full cost of this to Ms W, plus 
interest*.
allegations of poor conduct
Ms W said that an employee or employees of Lloyds contractor slept in her bed. Shes 
retained the sheets  to prove this. She says the hob was used to cook meat by an employee 
or employees of the contractor, with meat fat splashed everywhere. She doesnt cook  or eat 
meat. The contractor denies  both allegations.
I have no way to assess  the sheets Ms W kept in evidence. Or, even, if she provided  
pictures of these and/or the hob, of knowing who caused any staining  or mess. I appreciate 
how distressed Ms W feels about the way she perceives the contractor treated her and her 
home. But I have no clear evidence that allows me to reasonably conclude that the 
Ref: DRN24646697contractor most likely acted poorly and caused damage as well as upset. Without such 
evidence I cant reasonably place any blame  at Lloyds door.
Ms W also said the contractor left her house filthy every day and left her car, garage floor 
and contents covered  in dust.  I appreciate it was upsetting and inconvenient for Ms W to 
see her house get dirty. But dust and dirt during messy work like plastering isnt unusual. 
And I wouldnt expect builders to clean  up every day. I cant reasonably  compensate Ms W 
for this distress and inconvenience which has resulted naturally from having  had an insured 
incident that has resulted in necessary but unfortunately messy repairs.
Ms W reported that the contractor broke the garage  lock on more than one occasion. I see 
the contractor has accepted and paid for at least one repair in this respect.  More  care 
should have been taken.  I accept  this was upsetting for Ms W. Ill take this into account 
when considering compensation.
Ms W also complained that she went away for work on the understanding that the bathroom  
would be fully reinstated on her return. When she came home it wasnt  and she had to book 
into a hotel. Arranging this was quite difficult.  Lloyds accepts that the bathroom in particular 
should have been reinstated by this point and that the contractor should have at least  
contacted Ms W to warn  her that it wasnt. It paid the hotel bill. Whilst Ms W was able to 
return home after a short period of staying in the hotel and then working away,  work in the 
bathroom wasnt completed for another four months. And, for a period starting around a 
month before work was finally completed, only the toilet in the bathroom could be used. Ill 
take this into account  when  considering compensation.
compensation
I think this claim  has been handled  badly by Lloyds. Its own timeline shows  periods where 
the claim just stood stagnant. For example, the end of October  2016  when  a snagging list 
was provided by Ms W until mid-January 2017.
On top of frequent and sometimes  long delays the contractors work was often poorly 
completed. And even the list of work  that related to the £534.43 offered by Lloyds is fairly  
extensive.
I appreciate that there are clearly,  as evidence by the surveyors report, problems with 
Ms Ws home  that arent related to the storm or the contractors  work, and that, to an extent, 
these would have  made the claim more complicated. But I see no good  reason  why it took 
until October 2016 for repairs to progress to a point where they were  meant to have been 
completed, and then for it to take a further  four and a half months for a meeting to assess  
the snagging issues to take place. It was then a further seven months before, in 
October 2017, a full year after the snagging list was completed by Ms W, Lloyds issued its 
final response. But I bear in mind that Ms Ws surveyors  report  wasnt  issued until 
August 2017.
Looking at what needed doing,  considering the clear delays that did occur  and bearing  in 
mind other repairs cases I see, but also taking into account the time Ms Ws surveyor took,  
I think theres been about six months  of delay  by Lloyds.
Taking everything into account,  I think £750  compensation fairly  and reasonably  makes up 
for the distress and inconvenience Ms W was caused  by Lloyds failings during this claim, 
including its delay.
Ref: DRN24646698Lloyds said it was mostly in agreement with my provisional findings. But said it couldnt 
agree that it was responsible for roof tiles (point 23, Lloyds to fix or pay £500). Lloyds said 
that cracked tiles arent typically associated with storm damage. It feels this damage is 
more akin to wear and tear. It noted  that it should  probably not have accepted the external  
damage under storm and didnt feel the wind speed prevalent at the time was sufficient to 
equate to storm or to cause damage  to heavy cement tiles, particularly without leaving any 
sign of the tiles having been moved.
Ms W was unhappy with my findings. She said she worked  away through the week, so it 
was when she returned home  at the weekend that she found dust and dirt everywhere. 
Sufficient to amount to a health risk. Ms W said I hadnt taken into account her health  and 
how Lloyds actions had affected her. 
Further, Ms W believes that its standard practice for a contractor to take photos  to 
evidence the condition of every inch of a property before  they start work.  Lloyds  didnt do 
this here,  nor tell her that it wasnt doing  this. If shed known that, or expected  itd treat her 
home so badly, shed  have  taken photos herself.  She shouldnt  be penalised and her 
complaint shouldnt fail on account  of any failure to provide evidence. Ms W reiterated that 
she still has the soiled sheets and can produce witnesses who can testify that she has 
never had a man sleep  in her home.
Finally, Ms W noted that in my provisional award Id said, if this was being settled in cash, 
amongst other things,  Lloyds should pay:
An amount to account for the difference between this cost and what  it will cost Ms W to 
have that work done, having  re-priced the list from the final response letter in line with my 
comments above.
Ms W asked  for clarification as to what this means.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I assessed Ms Ws report  I noted that the surveyor had included some  things  for 
repair that didnt,  to me, have any obvious  or likely link to storm damage.  So I didnt think 
I could reasonably require Lloyds to accept liability for every  repair  he recommended. 
But in considering what was likely caused by storm I was mindful  that Lloyds had accepted  
that a storm had occurred and it had completed a scope of works  which  set out what  it 
accepted needed repairing as a result of that. Including various repairs to roof tiles across  
the roof.  
So there was already  an acceptance from Lloyds that some damage to the roof had been 
caused by a storm. And despite this item being included in its scope  of works Lloyds hasnt 
shown that any repairs to any roof tiles were undertaken. Nor has it shown which various 
tiles it was prepared  to accept as having been  damaged by storm  which  might allow me to 
have determined that the unrepaired ones were likely those that it didnt  accept as having 
been storm damaged.  On balance I think its fair to maintain my award  regarding  the roof 
tiles. Lloyds accepted some  damage  was caused by the storm, it is clear  there  are still 
Ref: DRN24646699damaged tiles in place  and Lloyds hasnt done enough to convince  me it hadnt accepted 
liability for repairing  these  (whether such was in error or not).
Whilst it was only at weekends that Ms W came  home, rather  than daily, Im still of the view 
that it isnt unreasonable to expect dirt and dust to occur/be caused during messy  work like 
plastering. I appreciate  Ms W found  this upsetting but Im not persuaded the dirt/dust 
amounted from or was caused as a result of any failure by Lloyds.
I dont doubt that what  happened during  this claim caused Ms W a lot of upset. Ive taken 
her situation  into account when  considering the available evidence of what happened.  Im 
satisfied that there were  some failings by Lloyds and that these were partly responsible for 
the upset experienced. But Im not persuaded it did anything  wrong  by not taking photos  of 
the pre-repair  condition of Ms Ws home or by not telling her it wasnt taking  such. Thats 
because taking a record like this of the home isnt standard practice. It isnt something  Id 
usually expect an insurer to do. Neither  side is being  penalised here. I havent, for example, 
seen something compelling  within Lloyds file but discounted it because Ms W hasnt  
presented clear evidence  of her own. Rather  Ive looked at the available  evidence  and 
decided what compensation is fairly and reasonably due for the upset Im satisfied Lloyds 
caused. I remain of the view that £750 compensation is fairly and reasonably due in the 
circumstances here.  
I know Ms W believes the contractor acted inappropriately whilst  in her home. But I have  to 
take into account that the contractor has denied such  allegations. Im not persuaded that 
the testimony alone, that Ms W has referred to, would help settle this part of the dispute. 
And I have  no way to compel further  testimony from any party or to cross-examine  them. In 
saying that Im mindful that there is no expert  evidence that shows meat was cooked  or that 
the sheets were slept in by a man. For me to make a finding  against an insurer  I have to be 
satisfied, at least on balance, that it most likely did something wrong. Im not satisfied that is 
most likely the case here. 
In Lloyds final response dated  27 October  2017,  it set out a list of work that it said would 
cost it £534.43  to fix. That was based  on the price  it would be charged to complete that 
work. If Lloyds does the work, the cost of it doesnt  matter. But if the claim is settled in cash  
then it will need to pay Ms W so she can complete that work  and it is unlikely that shed be 
able to do that for the same  price. So, if the matter  is settled in cash, Lloyds will either have 
to re-price that work based on national rates (not what  it would cost it) or pay for Ms Ws 
surveyor to price that work. Lloyds will then have to pay Ms W £534.43, being its cost to 
complete that work, plus any additional sum over that amount which reflects what  it will cost 
Ms W to have  that work  done, as evidenced by Lloyds re-pricing or Ms Ws surveyors 
assessment of the costs.
Id also like to clarify  that when I said this provisionally:
Lloyds contractor accepts points 1, 4, 8, 10 and 11 made by the surveyor.  The total cost 
for these  five items  is £560. So, Ill make Lloyds pay this sum.
the amount of £560 was included within  the £1,600 I said Lloyds should pay if Ms W 
chooses to have the matter settled in cash.  But if she wants  Lloyds to carry out the work, it 
will have to carry out these repairs along  with the rest of the work.
Ref: DRN246466910my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to, at Ms Ws 
choice either:
Carry out the work;  identified by it in its final response letter, accepted by its contractor, 
and that found  by myself in this decision as being  necessary;
Reimburse Ms Ws cost for the surveyors report,  plus interest*; and
Pay Ms W £750 compensation.  
Or, pay Ms W:
£534.43 for work it found necessary in its final response letter;
An amount to account for the difference between this cost and what  it will cost Ms W to 
have that work done, having re-priced  the list from the final response letter in line with 
my comments above;
£1,600 for the work listed  on the surveyors report which  Ive found it fairly and 
reasonably needs  to do (which included the cost for the work its contractor accepted);
An amount equivalent to what Ms W paid for the surveyors  report, plus interest*; and
£750 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the price of the surveyors report from the date Ms W paid for it and 
until settlement is made. If Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest  due to Ms W, it should  tell her how much  its taken off. It should also give Ms W a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2464669