K821x#15complaint  
Mrs W has complained about the advice that she received in 2011 from Brighton Williams & 
Partners (referred to from now on as BWP) to transfer the value of the deferred pension 
benefits that she had accrued in a former  employers (referred  to from now on as employer  
B) occupational  pension scheme  (OPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mrs W has complained also about two further  transfers to the SIPP from employer A and 
employer C. These complaints are being  looked  at separately by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
background
In May 2011  Mrs W then aged 57 met BWP to discuss  her financial circumstances and what  
to do with her pension provision. Mrs W was at the time working in a senior role on a salary  
of about £80,000 p.a. She was investigating whether she was eligible to retire  early on ill-
health grounds from her current  employer.  However, it appears that whilst Mrs W was not in 
good health she was not allowed  to retire early on enhanced terms.
Mrs W owned a property  that was subject to a mortgage. This was let out to tenants and   
Mrs W was living elsewhere with her husband. Mrs W also had a number of other 
outstanding loans and an overdraft. In total the sums amounted to about  £75,000.
Mrs W was aware  that in lieu of these  benefits  she had accrued from earlier  employments  
she had been  offered  transfer values of £167,000  and £240,000. The total transfer sum was 
around £407,000.
Mrs W had therefore approached BWP for advice as to what to do with her retirement 
provision as she wanted to retire.
I note that whilst Mrs W was not in good  health the conditions that she was suffering from 
were not sufficiently life shortening to allow the scheme to allow  her to retire early  on 
enhanced terms.
This complaint considers  only the transfer  of the value of the benefits  from employer Bs 
pension scheme  although  I am aware of and have considered Mrs Ws wider circumstances, 
when dealing with this complaint and her other complaints. The benefits from employer Bs 
pension scheme  were shown as an index linked pension of £11,260 p.a. from age 60 and a 
tax-free lump sum at age 60 of £33,780. The transfer value offered was about £240,000
BWP recommended that Mrs W should transfer  the value of the deferred  benefits with 
employer B to a new SIPP. This would then allow her to access the tax-free lump sum of 
about £60,000 (25% of the transfer  value). This would be significantly greater than the tax- 
free lump  sum available from the OPS. 
Mrs W accepted the recommendation and on 15 July 2011 Mrs W transferred the value of 
the deferred pension benefits  that she had accrued with employer B to her SIPP. 
It was not anticipated that Mrs W would need to access any income from the new drawdown  
arrangement as she was still working.  It was also pointed out that after the transfer  to the 
SIPP Mrs W would be able to take income from the funds  if she needed to.
Ref: DRN25231622In February 2015  BWP were replaced as Mrs Ws advisers and in April 2015 the remaining 
funds in the SIPP were  transferred to another provider.
In August  2016  following  the reduction  in the value  of her SIPP Mrs W complained via her 
representatives to BWP about the advice that she had received to transfer  the value of her 
deferred pension  benefits from her former employers pension  schemes  into the new SIPP.
Mrs W representatives have argued that she would have been much  better  off now if the 
transfers had not taken  place. The representatives  have argued  that the advice given to       
Mrs W was inappropriate and BWP breached the duties that it had with Mrs W to:
Ensure that the investments recommended were suitable  for Mrs W given her 
objectives and the facts  disclosed.
Ensure that she understood the nature of the risks involved with the recommended   
investments, and
Take reasonable steps  to ensure that communications with Mrs W were  clear fair and 
not misleading.
On 21 April 2017 BWP rejected the complaint from Mrs W and argued  that:
Mrs W wanted to raise  the maximum tax-free  cash sum from her pension 
arrangements in order to reduce her level of debts and to reduce her mortgage. 
Mrs W was told that taking  high levels of income from the SIPP would  reduce the 
level of income available in the future
The initial report stated that Mrs W did not need income in the short  term but she 
started taking income from the SIPP almost immediately and that she has taken 
several large one off payments  from this arrangement. She has taken around 
£400,000 from the SIPP over 5 years. As a result the value of the SIPP has fallen 
from £585,000  to around £223,000.
Mrs W has received  significantly more from the SIPP than she would have received 
from the OPS.
The portfolio  selected was meeting the required growth rates.  
It was Mrs Ws difficult financial position  that caused the problems and the advice 
from BWP was appropriate in the circumstances.
It was only Mrs Ws high level of withdrawals from the SIPP  that have caused the 
problems that have arisen.
It noted that the high level of withdrawals continued after it was replaced as Mrs Ws 
financial adviser.
Even if it had told Mrs W not to transfer she would  have  gone  ahead anyway 
irrespective of the advice from BWP.
Any loss that was determined would need  to take into account the high level of 
withdrawals and should allow for significant contributory negligence.
The complaint was investigated by the adjudicator who considered that as the circumstances 
of each transfer are different each transfer should  be considered  separately.  
The adjudicator upheld this complaint and set down  a method of determining redress.
Ref: DRN25231623The business did not agree with the adjudicator and the complaint was then referred to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point to note is that the regulator had issued guidance in its handbook (19.1.6) that 
stated:
When advising  a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests
I have considered in some detail the position that Mrs W was in at the time that she was 
advised to transfer the value of her deferred pension benefits  with employer B into the SIPP. 
I note that at the time of advice Mrs W had been  recorded as having a relatively cautious 
attitude to risk. This would mean that Mrs W was unwilling to accept any significant  degree 
of risk with her pension  benefits. 
I also note that before  the transfer  took place the pension provider should  have carried  out a 
calculation to determine the critical yield. This is the rate of investment return  that would 
have to be achieved  after the transfer to ensure that the personal pension  policy  had the 
same value at retirement as the benefits  that would have been provided  by the OPS. In this 
case the calculation  was not carried out and the Financial  Ombudsman Service  has 
arranged for independent  experts to determine  the critical  yield on the transfer value offered. 
This was determined as 16.0% which meant that the transfer value being offered was low in 
respect of the benefits that were  being  given up. 
At the time pension providers were required  by the regulator to issue  illustrations on 
assumed future growth rates of 5%, 7% and 9%. The required rate of return  of 16.0% just to 
match the benefits being given up would have been  considered very high. Given this very 
high rate of return that would need to be achieved after the transfer, and particularly in view 
of Mrs Ws attitude  to risk, in my opinion the advice from the business should  have  been  do 
not transfer. It would  have  been  expected that on retirement after transferring Mrs W would 
receive benefits of lower  value than she would have received from the OPS.
I do not consider  that the level of debts that Mrs W had were  so large that she would have 
ignored professional  advice not to transfer.  Her mortgage was on a property that she rented 
out and the mortgage  was paid-off in full when  the property was sold. There  was no 
requirement to try to pay off the mortgage  with the tax-free lump  sums from her pension  
arrangements.
In a letter dated 1 June  2011 the business noted  that Mrs Ws attitude  to risk had come out 
as 1 after completing a risk assessment  questionnaire (this was the lowest  rating).  Despite 
this outcome, the business stated as the investments  in the SIPP  would be held for a long 
term it felt that a slightly higher degree  of risk was appropriate over the medium term.       
Ref: DRN25231624Mrs Ws funds  were then invested in a range of cautious funds that, in my opinion, would not 
be expected to produce the high returns required to ensure  that she was better off on 
retirement after transferring out of the OPS. 
For the reasons  given  above if Mrs W had been  told that it was very likely that she would  be 
worse off on retirement after transferring then I consider  that she would not have transferred. 
I consider that if Mrs W had been given that advice  she would have followed it, given her 
cautious attitude to risk and the lack of any pressing need to access the tax-free  cash.. I 
therefore conclude  that this complaint should be upheld.
Whilst Mrs W has withdrawn much more from her drawdown plan that she would have 
received from the OPS  this will be allowed for when determining the level of any redress.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mrs W, as far as possible,  into the position she would now be in but 
for the unsuitable  advice.
Brighton Williams & Partners must  undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ws acceptance of the decision. 
It will be necessary  when  carrying out the required redress calculation  to  allow  appropriately 
for the fact there have  been several transfers  into the SIPP.
Brighton Williams & Partners may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs Ws contribution history  to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award : 
Ref: DRN25231625I require Brighton  Williams & Partners  to pay Mrs W compensation as set out above, up to a 
maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to       
Mrs W within 90 days of the date Brighton Williams & Partners receives  notification  of her 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Brighton Williams & Partners to pay Mrs W 
this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.   
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Brighton Williams & Partners  pays Mrs W the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes Brighton  Williams & Partners to pay Mrs W from the date it receives  
notification of her acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs W accepts my determination,  the money award is binding on Brighton Williams & 
Partners. My recommendation is not binding on Brighton Williams & Partners. 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs W can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to her after the money award has been  paid.  Mrs W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2523162