K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Allianz  Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1992 in connection with a Marks & Spencer account card that 
she applied  for by post. Allianz Insurance plc has taken responsibility for this complaint, so 
for simplicity  Ill just refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
 I think Allianz made Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because she did tick the box on the account  card application form to 
say she wanted the cover. She also signed the same  section and added her date of 
birth. So I think Mrs W wouldve realised she had a choice about  taking the PPI.
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But even  if it had recommended the policy, I dont think it was unsuitable  for 
Mrs W. Even though she says she would have received some employer benefits 
similar to the kind the PPI provided,  the policy would have paid out in addition to 
those benefits. So I think  the policy wouldve been helpful to Mrs W if she couldnt 
work. 
 Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs W would have been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN20998502Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2099850