K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that his home insurance  was automatically renewed by Tesco  Personal 
Finance PLC without  his being informed and that it wont waive a cancellation fee or refund 
any of the premium.
background
Mr H took out home insurance through Tesco in May 2017. Tesco  advised  that the policy 
was set to auto renew and that it sent the renewal  documents and a subsequent reminder to 
Mr H by email.  Mr H said he didnt receive  the documents. He subsequently requested that 
the policy be cancelled  as he couldnt  afford the new premium.  Tesco  confirmed it had sent 
the documents but as Mr H was outside  the 14 day cooling off period when he called to 
cancel it wouldnt refund the cancellation  charge.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator was satisfied that the renewal documents had 
been sent. He also clarified  the reasons for the increase  in premium from Tesco and found 
that it was fair and advised to Mr H in plenty  of time. He confirmed with Tesco  that the email 
notifications had been sent and to the right address, so he didnt  uphold  the complaint.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policy is set to auto-renew we do consider its fair for the insurer  automatically to 
renew the policy if it gives the customer sufficient notice.
Here Tesco has shown  us that it sent the renewal  documents to Mr H on 13 April 2018,  with 
renewal due on 10 May. The documents appear to have been  sent to the correct email 
address. Mr S requested duplicate documents to be sent to him after 10 May and those 
documents were  received at the same email  address. So I think  that the documents were 
sent in good time and there was no reason to suppose they wouldnt have been received, 
Ive also seen that Mr H agreed to auto-renewal  when he took out the policy.
As Mr H didnt  contact Tesco to cancel the policy until August 2018 Tesco agreed to cancel 
the policy but wouldnt waive the cancellation charge nor refund any premiums as this was 
well outside  the 14 day cooling off period.  
I think Tesco acted fairly as it sent the renewal documents in plenty of time and to the correct 
email address. So it fairly can charge  for the time on risk of the policy and charge a 
cancellation fee for cancelling mid-term.
So far as the premium  is concerned, insurers generally are free to charge whatever rate they 
assess the risk demands, so long as the same  charge is fairly made to its customers  in 
similar circumstances. I think from the information supplied  by Tesco that Mr H hasnt been 
unfairly charged and that the increase is reasonable and within Tescos pricing criteria.
Overall I think  Tesco  has acted reasonably in respect  of its dealings with Mr H.
Ref: DRN23962852my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2396285