K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has no record of his savings account.
background
In 1965 Mr C opened a savings account  with Barclays. In 2017 he contacted  them about the 
account, but Barclays couldnt find any record of it. They said theyd done a thorough search 
of all available information, and concluded it must have been closed and the funds 
withdrawn sometime previously. 
Mr C complains that he didnt close the account. He thinks its likely Barclays lost their 
records of it when it was transferred  to another branch in 1986.  And he wants  them to pay 
him back the money that was in it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. They said that 
financial businesses werent expected  to keep records for an indefinite  period of time, so the 
focus of their investigation would be on whether Barclays  had exhausted  all of the 
possibilities when searching for Mr Cs account.  And they were satisfied that they had. So 
they didnt feel they could  ask Barclays to do anything further.
Mr C didnt accept this view. Hes unhappy he didnt receive any correspondence about his 
account after 1986, and that he wasnt made  aware of the banks policies and procedures for 
retaining documents. He still feels Barclays have lost his account. So the case has been  
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr C will be very disappointed,  but 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator did here.  So Im not going  to ask 
Barclays to do anything  further. Ill explain why.
Mr C says he hasnt closed his savings account, and believes it still has funds in it. I 
appreciate he feels  very strongly about this. Hes provided us with a statement from October  
1986 showing the account had a balance of £550.05 at that time. Hes also shown us a letter  
he was sent from Barclays earlier that year telling him that his account was being moved to 
another branch. I understand Mr C also has the original passbook for the account. But banks 
dont always require that this is returned  in order to close an account or withdraw money 
from it. So whilst this evidence shows me the account was still open in 1986, I dont feel its 
sufficient for me to conclude that the account  is still open now.
As our investigator explained, in this situation  wed expect to see the bank  has done all it can 
to try and trace the account for Mr C. And having  looked at the evidence Barclays have 
provided, Im satisfied they have. Theyve shown us that theyve carried  out thorough 
searches of both their active accounts,  and the dormant accounts register. 
If the account was still open Id expect Barclays to have  found it when they made  these 
searches. As theres no evidence its still in existence, I think,  on balance, its more  likely 
than not that the account was closed and the balance  withdrawn sometime  after 1986. I can 
see Mr C has raised  concerns that his account was closed and the money  withdrawn by 
someone other than himself. But I havent seen any evidence that this happened. 
Ref: DRN24563762I appreciate Mr C feels strongly about  this complaint, particularly as he hasnt received any 
correspondence about the account  since 1986  despite being told then that he would  be sent 
a new cheque book  and credit book. Hed assumed that as he hadnt  heard anything to the 
contrary his account  was still open.
Barclays have given  us consent to consider this complaint point here too. But they dont 
have any records going back  this far for me to able to see what correspondence  Mr C was 
sent about this account, or when.  And given the amount of time thats  passed,  I wouldnt 
expect them to. So Im afraid I cant draw  any conclusions  about whether the bank tried to 
send Mr C any further correspondence about  his account, or what  this might have said.   
I understand why its so frustrating for Mr C that hes only recently found out about the banks 
policy around data retention, and I know hes upset they dont  have his original account 
records. But Barclays arent  obliged  to keep records for an indefinite  period. So I cant say 
that theyve done anything wrong here.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2456376