K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that AA Underwriting Insurance  Company Limited  (AA) has unfairly 
declined a claim they made under  their home  insurance for a damaged worktop.
background
AA has used a contractor to handle Mr and Mrs Gs claim  but as its AA that is responsible 
for declining  the claim Ill refer only to it throughout this decision.
Mr and Mrs G had a window repaired in their kitchen. They  later noticed that the granite 
worktop around their sink was cracked.  They  think a workman  either  leant on the worktop  or 
stood on it whilst working on the window. Mr and Mrs G tried to get a surface repair done, 
but were told the worktop needed replacing. They contacted AA to make a claim on their 
policy about three months after first noticing the damage.
AA sent a surveyor out to look at the worktop.  He reported that the depth  of the worktop 
between the sink and the wall and the sink and the front edge  werent  of a recommended 
depth. So AA declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim,  saying damage as a result of poor 
workmanship or design was excluded from cover. When Mr and Mrs G challenged this it 
added that it also thought  the damage had occurred over time  so was general wear and 
tear, which was also excluded from cover.
Mr and Mrs G complained  but AA didnt  change its stance, so they brought  their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator didnt  think AA had been  fair. He recommended  AA meet  Mr and Mrs Gs 
claim, and also pay them  £100 for the way it handled the claim.
AA doesnt accept this, and has sent some worktop fitting guidance to support its argument.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say the worktop in question  is about ten years old and has shown no previous 
signs of damage.  And they say the granite used in the worktop is of a particularly strong type 
 so less likely to suffer damage if the width around sinks is less then AAs surveyor 
suggested was the optimal  width.
AA couldnt produce  any guidance that the surveyor relied upon when saying the width  was 
too narrow. But, since our investigator said it should  meet the claim, its produced some,  
from kitchen installers, which do match the recommendations from the surveyor.  Mr and Mrs 
G say they too could  produce guides from kitchen fitters  but theyd say a lesser width was 
acceptable. I found that a quick web search produced  a guide that said a smaller width was 
fine for the type of sink Mr and Mrs G have.
Ref: DRN26895472So Im not going to put much weight  on either  the guidance provided  by AA or Mr and Mrs G 
(if they were to do that), because it seems to me that the argument can be made either way. 
Im also aware that these  are current guides  and Mr and Mrs Gs kitchen has been 
installed for ten years. I doubt either party could provide the guidance pertinent  to Mr and 
Mrs Gs particular worktop/sink combination, and that would be the only relevant  guidance  I 
could fairly  take into account. 
Crucially, for AA to use an exclusion in the policy to decline  a claim, it needs to show, with 
reasonable evidence, that the exclusion applies. As far as workmanship/design goes Im not 
persuaded its done that.
Turning to the argument about gradual wear and tear, I havent  seen any persuasive report  
that explains why a well installed  granite  worktop  could wear in a fashion that leads to 
sudden cracks. Ive already said AA hasnt shown  me the worktop  was incorrectly installed.  
On balance I think it likely the cracks  that appeared did so because of a sudden and 
accidental force  like someone  leaning or standing  on the sink area.
Im also persuaded  that Mr and Mrs G didnt unnecessarily  delay contacting  AA. They  took 
some time to see if they could get the worktop repaired before making a claim.  Thats  an 
understandable thing  for them to do. So I dont think the delay between  the damage  being 
noticed and the claim  being made  affects  my decision.
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that AA should  meet  Mr and Mrs Gs 
claim, subject to any other terms and conditions in their policy  (like excess amounts, etc). 
And I think the £100 compensation our investigator  recommended is reasonable for the 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs G have had.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order AA Underwriting Insurance  Company 
Limited to meet Mr and Mrs Gs claim  subject to any other terms and conditions in their 
policy, and pay them £100  for the way its handled this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2689547