K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) didnt  act fairly or reasonably when 
dealing with his claim under  a travel insurance policy. He wants his claim paid and for IPA to 
recognise that the wording used at the point of sale is unclear and potentially  misleading.
background
Mr C had a single trip travel insurance  policy with IPA. He bought it online to cover  one week  
in Thailand but the IPA policy didnt cover  the entire period of his trip; two weeks of the trip 
werent covered  by IPA as Mr C already had specialist insurance  for his visit to Nepal.  Mr C 
became unwell while on holiday when visiting Thailand and made  a claim. His claim was 
declined. Mr C felt that there were  pages  of information and key information  was hidden and 
that he wasnt told swiftly enough about  the alleged requirement to cover the whole trip in 
one policy  (which meant he had to pay his medical and other  expenses  on his credit card).
Mr C complained to IPA. It said the definition of the term period  of insurance for single trip 
cover was set out in the policy as being from when the trip started by the policyholder  
leaving his normal place  of residence  in the UK until the trip completed (except for 
cancellation cover).  IPA pointed out that the policy also said that the definition  of trip 
excluded trips which  had already started unless  it was replacing or renewing  an existing 
policy with IPA (which Mr C wasnt). It said that when Mr C clicked  onto the website, he was 
shown a statement  that said cover  can only be offered  if you have not yet departed  on your 
trip, and there were hyperlinks to further explanations. IPA noted  that it had already 
refunded the cost of Mr C getting a medical certificate as his claim shouldnt  have been 
considered.
Mr C complained to us, and said that he had thought when buying the policy that the 
statement referred to by IPA meant that he couldnt buy it while  abroad,  not that the whole 
trip had to be insured. IPA said that the terms and conditions  made  it clear  that the insurance 
had to cover  the whole of the trip for the claim to be valid for consideration.
The investigators view was that IPA acted reasonably in declining the claim,  but shouldve  
told Mr C earlier that he wasnt covered by the policy. The investigator noted that during the 
online purchase Mr C was told that it was being assumed that he was travelling to and from 
the UK. But in reality,  Mr C travelled from one foreign country to another  when he undertook  
the trip covered by the policy, which meant  that it wasnt covered. The investigator said IPA 
shouldve told Mr C much  earlier that he wasnt covered, but didnt think  this caused financial 
loss as Mr C was following medical  advice and couldnt fly home  as planned.  The 
investigator said £100 compensation was fair and reasonable  for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delay.
IPA disagreed. It said that it hadnt  delayed telling Mr C that his claim wasnt  covered as he 
was told this from when  he first made a claim (which was when it said he first complained). 
IPA also said that this issue wasnt part of the complaint Mr C made to it, so shouldnt  be 
considered as part of this complaint (but Mr C could raise a new complaint). Mr C said that 
he did complain about this issue to IPA.
Ref: DRN25938402Mr C also disagreed with the investigators view. He said that he was told about  the 
assumption that he was a permanent resident of the UK, and overall in this trip he was 
travelling to and from the UK  Mr C said he was misled and it wasnt clear  that this meant  
the insured part of the trip had to start and finish in the UK. He pointed  out that he hadnt 
departed on the trip when he bought the insurance so wasnt  alerted to the problem when he 
saw this statement. Mr C said if the position had been made clearer  to him, hed have 
ensured the policy covered the whole  trip.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I note that Mr C wants me to require IPA to change the information given to consumers at 
the point of sale; that isnt something I can do. This service  only deals with individual  
complaints and has no power  to require a financial business to change its general  practice  
(the Financial Conduct Authority has that power).
I also am not going to deal with the issue of when Mr C was told that he wasnt  covered. This 
is because this isnt what Mr C complained to us or IPA about according  to the complaint 
form and the final response letter. What Mr C complained about was that he was given the 
impression his claim would be accepted  as IPA asked him for a medical  certificate and 
talked to him and his family about what to do while he was unwell abroad.  Mr Cs point was 
that he incurred  expenses which he expected IPA to repay. It was this point IPA addressed  
when dealing with his complaint. If Mr C wants the issue  about when he was told that his 
claim would be declined,  its open to him to make a new complaint (and I note that the 
contact notes dont  say Mr Cs claim was declined from the outset, supported by the emails 
sent to him by IPA and the contents of the final response letter).
This means  I have  to deal with the core of this complaint  the decision that the claim isnt 
covered at all, and whether Mr C was treated unfairly or unreasonably when he contacted 
IPA to make the claim.
Is the claim covered?
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy. It defines a trip as a return  
journey which  starts and ends in the UK. Mr Cs point is that his trip did start and end in the 
UK; he just didnt insure the whole trip with IPA. As this is a single trip policy,  I think  theres 
implication that the one policy is meant to insure  the whole trip, but it isnt spelt  out clearly 
within the policy in my view.
For example, IPA has dwelled on the term that says However any trip that had already 
begun when you purchased this insurance will not be covered. Mr C bought  the insurance 
on 9 October 2018 while  he was in the UK and hadnt departed.  So this term has no 
relevance or application  to the facts  of this complaint,  but the contact notes show that IPA 
seemed to believe Mr C was abroad  when he bought the policy. Theres no evidence for this 
belief. On the contrary, the evidence available is that Mr C didnt depart for his trip until 14 
October 2018, and the insured leg with IPA of his trip started 28 October.
Ref: DRN25938403The terms and conditions  dont say clearly that the whole of the trip must be covered by the 
one single trip policy. The rules of legal interpretation say that if something is ambiguous,  it 
should be read in the way that favours  the consumer as they didnt draft the policy. So I dont 
think IPA is correct in saying that the policy excludes Mr Cs claim.
And in any event, if I am wrong  about  the terms and conditions  of the policy, Im able to put it 
to one side and look at whats fair and reasonable. IPA says that theres  statements and 
warnings on the web journey  which  shouldve alerted Mr C that he needed  to insure  the 
whole journey. Ive looked  at the web journey  and I disagree. It wouldve been  easy to 
include wording in the list of assumptions  that made this clear,  but all thats  said (and 
relevant) is that its assumed that the consumer was travelling to and from the UK. Mr C was 
travelling to and from the UK; its just that his trip involved two countries and his needs  were 
that he needed specialist insurance for one country, and not the other. Theres  no warning 
that it was the insured trip that needed  to start and finish  in the UK. And Ive already found 
that the policy itself didnt  make this clear either.
Mr C went to the effort of arranging two insurance policies for his trip, including  one that was 
specialised. I think that its more likely than not that if hed been  told that the whole trip 
needed to be insured  with IPA to have  the cover he needed, hed have done so. It was the 
fact that this wasnt made clear to him thats  led to the situation Mr C now finds himself.
Its also difficult to see what prejudice  IPA has suffered here.  Mr Cs claim is in respect of the 
dates and country he insured with IPA. I cant see any disadvantage  to IPA that Mr C 
entered Thailand via Nepal, as opposed to direct from the UK.
In all the circumstances of this case,  I think IPA hasnt acted fairly or reasonably  in declining  
the claim.  It should  be considered in line with the terms  and conditions  of the policy.  Mr C 
says that he paid his expenses by credit card. If Mr C provides evidence  to IPA of the 
interest hes paid as a result, this should also be refunded in full for any element thats 
covered by the policy. If no such evidence is provided, simple  interest  at 8% a year from the 
date the claim was first submitted to the date of payment should  be paid.
Treatment of Mr C when he first notified IPA about his claim
I note that despite  requests IPA hasnt  provided  the call recording from 2 November 2018. 
And the contact notes  are very short  and not terribly helpful. But given Ive found the claim 
should be accepted and considered, and the costs of the medical certificate  has been 
refunded, I dont think theres  anything for me to consider. Its a fair point that Mr C needed  
treatment and should comply with medical  advice; no additional financial loss has been 
caused by such  advice.
Compensation for trouble  and upset
Ive already explained why I cant look at the issue  of when Mr C was told that his claim was 
declined. But Ive found that IPA has unfairly and unreasonably declined the claim, and this 
has caused Mr C trouble and upset.  Hes had to use his credit card to pay his expenses, and 
the evidence is that he is unhappy and distressed about whats  happened due to the decline 
of his claim.  While money never truly compensates  for trouble  and upset, I think  £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this claim.
Ref: DRN25938404my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr C said that he had nothing to add. IPA disagreed  
with my view. It provided call recordings (to which Ive now listened) and said that Mr C 
hadnt complied  with the terms and conditions of the policy, particularly with reference  to 
cover not being  provided for trips that had already started.
Ive considered carefully what the parties  have said. While IPA hasnt  clearly  set out the 
point it makes when talking about  its position  that the insurance doesnt cover  trips that have 
started (However any trip that had already begun when you purchased this insurance will 
not be covered.), I think its possible that IPA may mean  that if the insurance only covers 
a period after a trip from the UK has been started, it isnt covered. Its another way of saying 
that the whole trip should be insured to be covered. If that is what  IPA means within  this 
term, it isnt clear  its ambiguous. Mr C reasonably thought it might that the insurance  
couldnt be bought if the trip had started. And given  the use of the word when, I think  the 
term really is saying  what Mr C think it meant.
And Ive already explained in my provisional  decision  that the requirement to start and end 
the whole  of the insured  trip (as opposed to the trip itself)  from and to the UK isnt made 
clear. I still dont think the policy should  be read in such a way to exclude  Mr Cs claim for the 
reasons set out in my provisional view. And if Im wrong about that, Ive considered  whats  
fair and reasonable and am of the view as set out in my provisional decision that it isnt fair 
or reasonable to refuse to consider the claim for the reasons  I previously gave. Theres  no 
evidence of any disadvantage being suffered by IPA that Mr C entered  Thailand  via Nepal, 
not the UK.
The calls Ive listened to havent changed my provisional view about the contact with IPA. I 
also remain of the view that £200  compensation for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay Mr C 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and consider his claim under the terms 
and conditions of the policy (paying what is covered with interest). Under  the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2593840