K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that his level term assurance  policy was unsuitable and mis-sold to him by 
Lloyds Bank  Plc.
background
In 2003, Mr G visited a Lloyds branch and took out a level term assurance  policy  providing 
life cover.  It was only in 2018 when the policy expired that he realised it wasnt  what he 
thought. Mr G was of the understanding that the cover he had taken was connected  to a 
Healthcare Options policy  he held. He explained that he only wanted cover  to protect an 
injury hed sustained  and couldnt understand why hed been sold life cover  at the age of 19. 
He felt the policy had been mis-sold  and because of this, he wanted a full refund of the 
premiums hed paid.  
Lloyds reviewed the case and explained  that Mr Gs policy was a Non-Advice Term 
Assurance policy (NATA). These  policies  were only available in branches and on an 
execution only basis. Because of this, Lloyds werent able to provide  any point of sale 
material. They explained  that Mr G had selected  the type of cover  he wanted, and signed the 
application form confirming he hadnt  received any advice when taking it out. 
Lloyds also explained  that Mr Gs policy documents were sent to him shortly after him taking 
the cover, which wouldve explained  everything in detail. These documents  also wouldve 
explained Mr Gs right to cancel the policy.  
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and couldnt  recommend the premiums be refunded. 
He explained  that Mr G hadnt received any guidance  and had selected the level of cover  
himself. He said that the information provided at the time was clear and sufficient for Mr G 
to make an informed choice,  and as he hadnt  seen  any evidence  to show  Lloyds  
recommended  the policy,  he wasnt  able to say theyd  done  anything  wrong.
Mr G didnt  accept  our investigators  opinion,  so the complaint  was passed  to me for 
review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Of course its hard to know  exactly what was said when Mr G went into the branch  as I 
wasnt there and we dont have  any documentation from the point of sale.  So all I can do is 
base my decision on the facts that I do have. 
Mr Gs policy  was sold on a non-advised basis. This means Lloyds wouldnt have offered 
any guidance on whether the cover was suitable  for him. They only would have given him 
enough information to make a decision himself. 
As he didnt  receive  advice for the policy, it was Mr Gs responsibility to read the 
documentation he was given, and to make  sure he was taking the type of cover he wanted.  I 
think the information provided to him made this clear. The document completed and signed 
by Mr G states in a few places that the cover is for a level term assurance 15 year plan. And 
it shows what option Mr G selected. 
Ref: DRN21783952The policy schedule and key features also clearly  set out what  the cover provided  benefit for, 
and for how long. Mr G said he shouldnt have been  given  life cover at the age of 19, but the 
policy document states the earliest age it can be given is if someone is 19 on their next 
birthday. I believe Mr G couldve cancelled  the policy  after receiving these documents if he 
felt the cover  wasnt suitable for him. 
As Mr G wasnt given  any advice or recommendations when taking out the policy,  I cant  say 
Lloyds has done  anything wrong and therefore wont be asking them  to refund the premiums 
paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2178395