K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Ms W complain  they were mis-sold a joint reviewable whole of life policy  by Sun 
Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited. 
background
In my provisional decision of 19 July 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision, I upheld  the complaint and said the business should  calculate the following 
redress:
oThe business should determine  the cost of a competitively priced joint 
decreasing term assurance policy for £36,000  worth  of cover for a term of 16 
years, until the end of the mortgage in 2012.   
oIf theres a loss it should  refund  the difference between the cost of the 
decreasing term assurance policy and the reviewable whole of life policy,  with 
8% simple interest  from the date of settlement to the date of payment. 
oFrom  2012, when the mortgage wouldve ended, the business  should refund 
the premiums  less the cost of life cover and CIC  with 8% simple interest 
from the date of settlement to the date of payment. 
oThe business should deduct  the surrender value of the whole of life policy  
from any award. 
Im mindful of Mr Hs points about  the loss in value of the whole of life policy  and being under  
insured for his mortgage. Whilst this tends  to support why the cost of life cover and CIC 
ought to be deducted from the 2012 refunds, I think the above redress places Mr H and Ms 
W in the position they wouldve been in but for the error.   
 
The business responded and hasnt agreed with my provisional decision.  In summary, it 
said:
The ombudsman had acknowledged that it had two similar cases that were  rejected 
but hasnt explained  why this complaint  was different. 
The business didnt  sell joint decreasing life plans, therefore  it was only able to quote 
for two single life plans.  The redress isnt possible for it to carry out. 
It has tried to obtain historic quotes but companies were unwilling to release this sort 
of sensitive information for commercial reasons. It cant  use the current rates as this 
wouldnt be a true comparison. 
The business didnt  sell separate CIC so this was an affordable way for consumers to 
obtain higher level of life cover, with CIC. 
It doesnt think a decreasing term wouldve  been suitable. Mr H and Ms W were  sent 
surrender forms back in 2012 but didnt cancel the plan. 
Two decreasing term assurance policies would cost £29.34  sourced through  DTA 
assumptions via Mortgage Fundamentals   which is more  than what they currently  
pay.
The cost of two level term assurance  polices  because they wouldve only sold 
single policies  wouldve  been  higher at the outset, at around £26.24 without any 
additional riders.  This is compared  to £25 a month for the plan which  included  CIC 
and waiver of premiums. 
The premium of £25 a month was the minimum premium for this type of policy which  
would suggest  that affordability may have  been  an issue. 
Ref: DRN23906502Since the mortgage end date of 2012, the life and CIC exceeded the premiums which  
were being paid, and it was primarily  this that caused the plan to fail in June 2011 
and June 2016. Therefore theres no refund of premiums to be paid.  
Mr H also responded  and made the following key points:
The current mortgage is only in Mr Hs name. Hes been separated from Ms W since 
1998 and divorced  since 2004. 
He continued  with the policy as the children were at the property and wanted the 
property to revert to them upon his death.  
Since 2012, hes been in a job with a low basic salary. His death in service  payment 
would be around £36,000 with a mortgage  of £80,000. Hes expected  the business to 
cover the balance. He has been  under insured  for seven years.  
He accepts hes had life cover but it has been insufficient for his needs. 
The issue of the Centennial Managed Fund  has not been addressed.  The original 
adviser said the fund could  be worth  £2,000 plus when  the policy ended. But in 2008  
it was worth £506, and in 2018  it was worth  £64.78. 
The business hasnt  really explained what happened and the Stock  Market 
explanation isnt really adequate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and notwithstanding  the points made by the business and Mr H, my 
conclusion remains as set out previously, and for the same  reasons. I uphold this complaint.  
However in light of the further submissions in respect of my proposed  redress methodology, 
in the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr H and Ms W havent suffered  a 
financial loss. Otherwise I believe Ive considered all the points that I consider relevant to my 
decision.
I still think the business quite rightly  upheld this complaint from the outset, but the issue  at 
the heart of this complaint  has always been  redress. 
The proposed redress methodology  in my provisional decision was slightly  different to the 
one employed  by the business, but I thought  it was a fair and reasonable way of calculating  
any losses that Mr H and Ms W might have suffered. And I stand by this. 
However, that isnt to say that the business redress recommendation wasnt  without merit, 
particularly as Ive come to the same conclusion that Mr H and Ms W havent  suffered a 
financial loss. 
At no point  was I suggesting  that the result was going to be different, and I hope I made this 
clear to Mr H and Ms W. Either way I gave no undertaking that any money would be owed to 
them as this was always subject to calculations. 
I understand that two level term assurance policies  might have been suitable  in that they 
were likely to provide mortgage cover along with some  additional  protection  for the duration 
of the mortgage   but even then the two policies were  likely to cost £26.24 and didnt include 
CIC, or waiver of premiums.   
Ref: DRN23906503I appreciate the business has made  a great  deal of effort to follow my redress methodology 
and to try and obtain the data that Id asked for, but unsuccessfully. I understand that given 
the commercially sensitive nature of the information  and the business standalone position  in 
the UK  with no overseeing umbrella  organisation  it simply hasnt been able obtain this 
information.   
Unfortunately situations like this do arise.  However in an effort  to try and resolve this matter,  
I have to make a decision based on the available evidence. 
I understand that two decreasing term assurance policies were likely to cost £29.34. Its 
more likely (than not) that a joint decreasing term assurance policy  if available  was likely 
to be cheaper than paying for two separate  policies. 
But on the face of the available evidence and on balance, Im unable  to safely say that it 
wouldve cost less than £25 a month which is what Mr H and Ms W were paying as the 
minimum premium  for their joint whole of life cover.  Whilst its possible that it might  have  
subject to the different providers  Im simply unable to say that it wouldve in this case. 
Im mindful that the current mortgage is only in Mr Hs name and that he and Ms W were  
separated since 1998  and were  divorced in 2004  therefore, unless  there was a particular 
reason to the contrary, Mr H was unlikely to have needed a joint decreasing  term assurance  
policy with CIC in any case. And it wouldve  been  his responsibility to notify  the insurer  of 
any changes to his circumstances.  
In my provisional decision I said that from 2012, when the mortgage wouldve ended, the 
business should refund the premiums   less the cost of life cover  and CIC  with 8% simple 
interest from the date of settlement  to the date of payment. I again gave no guarantee that 
there would be any redress to pay Mr H and Ms W. Im now satisfied based on the business 
response to my provisional  decision there  is no redress  to be paid in this instance.     
I want to assure Mr H that Ive taken  all of his points into account.  The whole point of the 
business uphold and redress recommendation is to address the points he has raised 
regarding the short fall and inadequacy of the whole of life policy  as a mortgage protection. 
Thankfully theyve not had to make a claim,  and Im unable to compensate Mr H and Ms W 
on the basis of a hypothetical  loss that might  (or might not) have  occurred.  
I also want to assure  Mr H that Im familiar  with his circumstances from the case  papers but 
its not something I wanted to allude to in the event that it might lead to his identification.  
Im mindful of the two similar cases referred to by the business  in which our service was 
content with its approach  and resolution  that the customers in similar  cases didnt suffer  a 
financial loss.  
Whilst that may have  been the case,  and I appreciate the need for consistency, this 
shouldnt be a bar to considering cases in light of their individual merits.  
In this instance, its only in response to my provisional decision and in light of my proposed  
redress that Im now on balance satisfied that Mr H and Ms W havent suffered a financial 
loss. 
Ref: DRN23906504my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint but 
make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23906505COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION  
complaint
Mr H and Ms W complain  they were mis-sold a joint reviewable whole of life policy by Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited. 
background
In 1996, Mr H and Ms W were  sold a reviewable  whole of life policy with Critical Illness Cover  (CIC) in 
respect of a repayment  mortgage that was taken  out for £36,000 in 1987 and due to end in 2012.  
In 2007, they mortgaged for £90,000, Mr H says he used the policy and death  in service benefit as a 
means of cover.  
The business  upheld the complaint. It said that a reviewable whole of life policy wasnt suitable for 
mortgage protection. However, it said compared to two term assurance life policies it didnt  have 
joint policies Mr H and Ms W hadnt suffered a loss and therefore  werent due any redress.  
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:
He agreed  with the business that a reviewable whole of life policy wasnt suitable for a 
repayment mortgage.  
In this instance  Mr H and Ms W shouldve  been sold decreasing term assurance policy that 
matched the term and amount of the outstanding mortgage, for a period  of 16 years  ending in 
2012. 
Mr H and Ms W should be refunded  the difference between  what they paid for the reviewable 
whole of life policy, and what  they were  likely to have paid, for a decreasing  term assurance 
policy. Plus a full refund  of premiums from the date the mortgage wouldve ended, with 8% 
simple interest.  
The business  disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. It said that whilst  it upheld  the complaint 
on the basis that its recommendation was unsuitable for mortgage protection, it found that Mr H and 
Ms W wouldnt have made a loss if each of them  had taken out a decreasing term assurance policy  
with CIC which the adjudicator hadnt taken into account.  
The adjudicator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded  to change  his mind. Whilst 
he thought the business was right to take into account the CIC, he still thought it should pay Mr H and 
Ms W redress based on what they had, with what they shouldve had, which was a joint decreasing  
term assurance policy with CIC. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to uphold  this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what the business  says I dont think the broad  
redress methodology proposed  by the adjudicator  is unreasonable. However, I think  the business 
should be entitled to deduct the cost of life cover and CIC from any refunds paid from 2012.   
Calculating redress can be tricky especially  in circumstances where  the business says theres  no loss. 
But this of course depends  on the how the business has gone about calculating redress. 
Ref: DRN23906506Whilst I think the business proposed redress is not without  merit, in this instance  based on the facts  
of this complaint  I dont think  it is the right way to put things right.
And whilst  I agree with the adjudicators general approach to the refund of premiums, Im satisfied that 
Mr H and Ms W have  had the benefit of the life and CIC, and they should  pay for this. I also think its 
more likely  than not theyd have got cover to protect the re-mortgage. 
I note Mr H and Mr W kept the policy going beyond the date of the end of the mortgage. Whilst  this of 
itself isnt evidence that they necessarily wanted the whole of life policy, and it doesnt  make an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable, they still had the benefit of life cover and the business wouldve  
paid out in the event  of a valid claim. I note Mr H and Ms W over time reduced the level of cover they 
had this was likely  to be as a result of the cost implications. 
Im mindful the business has referred to two previous  decisions in similar circumstances where it says 
that despite the mis-sale, its proposed redress wasnt disputed, because it found there was no loss.  
That notwithstanding I still dont think the redress Im suggesting is unreasonable. Im not in a position  
to analyse or criticise either of those decisions  except to say that ombudsman are not bound  by 
previous decisions. Whilst every effort  is made to maintain consistency,  cases  must also be decided 
on their individual  facts  even the littlest  difference in fact can make a difference  in terms of the 
uphold, redress, and how its calculated.  
Ive looked at what  position Mr H and Ms W wouldve been in but for the mis-sale. Having done so, I 
think its more  likely  (than not) that they wouldve had a joint decreasing term assurance policy  not 
separate policies as suggested by the business  that matched the term and amount of their 
mortgage. 
 
So, I think the business should calculate and pay the following redress:
oThe business should determine the cost of a competitively priced joint decreasing 
term assurance policy for £36,000 worth of cover for a term of 16 years,  until the end 
of the mortgage in 2012.   
oIf theres a loss it should refund the difference between the cost of the decreasing 
term assurance policy and the reviewable whole of life policy, with 8% simple  interest 
from the date of settlement to the date of payment.  
oFrom 2012, when the mortgage wouldve ended,  the business should  refund the 
premiums  less the cost of life cover and CIC  with 8% simple interest from the date 
of settlement to the date of payment. 
oThe business should deduct the surrender value of the whole of life policy from any 
award. 
Im mindful of Mr Hs points about the loss in value of the whole of life policy  and being under insured 
for his mortgage. Whilst this tends to support why the cost of life cover and CIC ought  to be deducted 
from the 2012  refunds, I think the above redress places  Mr H and Ms W in the position they wouldve 
been in but for the error.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold 
this complaint. 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited  should calculate the redress as set out 
above. 
Ref: DRN23906507Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2390650