K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are complaining about  Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd because  its adviser  is 
pursuing them for repayment of commission it had to pay back  to the insurer when they 
cancelled their life and critical illness insurance policies. They  say theyve  now found 
superior cover with another insurer and dont believe they should be penalised for that.
background
In 2016, Mr and Mrs L each took out life and critical illness insurance policies with Friends  
Life (now Aviva) through an adviser of Beals Mortgage & Financial Services, a 
representative of Intrinsic. They  didnt pay Beals  a fee for arranging the cover.  It took 
payment in the form of commission from Friends Life instead.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs L took advice from another adviser and replaced their Friends  Life 
policies with cover from another insurer. Because they cancelled their policies  early,  Friends  
Life reclaimed some of the commission it had previously paid to Beals. Beals then tried to 
recover that money from Mr and Mrs L.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She felt the Friends  Life policies 
were suitable at the time they were sold and that terms of engagement  from 2016 were clear  
that Mr and Mrs L might have to reimburse  Beals for any commission  reclaimed if they 
cancelled early.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and asked  for their complaint to be 
reviewed. In support of their complaint,  theyve  made the following key points:
The Friends Life policies werent suitable  for them. This is shown by the fact they 
were able to find policies with other insurers providing more comprehensive cover.
They changed policies  to benefit from superior cover.  They shouldnt be tied to 
policies providing  inferior cover  or penalised for changing in this way.
Section 7 of the Insurance Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says a 
consumer cant be charged for cancelling a pure protection  product.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Beals has provided copies of the terms of engagement that appear to have been  signed by 
Mr and Mrs L when they took their Friends Life policies in 2016. The terms explain that 
Beals will act as their adviser  to arrange a suitable  life policy. For arranging  their life and 
critical illness cover, Beals didnt  charge  a fee for its advice. It instead received payment in 
the form of commission  from Friends Life. The personalised  quotation dated 28 March 2016  
says the total commission  payable to Beals was £2,603.60. 
Where commission  is paid to an adviser  for arranging insurance, most insurers  have a policy 
of reclaiming  some  of that commission if a policy is cancelled in the early  years.  When  
Ref: DRN28130792Mr and Mrs L cancelled their policies,  Friends Life reclaimed commission totalling £1,071.06. 
In anticipation  of this situation, the terms of engagement  say:
In the event that Beals is due to receive  or receives  a commission  from the provider 
or underwriter of or other intermediary retained  in providing a Life policy(s) effected 
by the Applicant(s), should the Applicant(s)  cancel  the policy  or stop paying  the 
premiums within the first 48 months  from inception of the said policy  and in 
consequence Beals are obliged  to refund the commission paid to it or Beals does or 
will not then receive  the commission  to which it would otherwise have been entitled  
or due, then Beals reserves the right to charge the Applicant(s) a fee representing  
the amount Beals has to repay, and/or (as the case may be) the amount that Beals  
does not receive  that it would otherwise have received by way of commission  for a 
period of up to 48 months after commencement  of the policy and this fee will become 
due immediately that Beals notifies the Applicant(s) that it has been advised  of the
cancellation of the policy(s).
In my view, the terms are sufficiently clear that if Mr and Mrs L cancelled their policies within  
the first four years, they may be asked to repay some of the commission  disclosed in the 
original illustration up to the amount reclaimed by Friends Life. As Ive said above, 
Mr and Mrs L appear to have signed  and agreed  to the terms in March 2016 and Im 
satisfied theyre valid and that Beals  is entitled  to expect them to be honoured.
I realise Mr and Mrs L are not happy  with this situation, but this type of arrangement  has 
been common in the industry.  I think its important to recognise  that Beals provided a 
service when it advised them on their policies and it was entitled to receive  payment for that 
service. By taking payment as commission from Friends Life, Beals  could avoid having to 
charge Mr and Mrs L directly for its services. But if their subsequent actions mean some of 
that commission is reclaimed by the insurer, I dont  think its inherently unreasonable  that it 
should want to recover that from them.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ls observations  about section 7 of ICOBS, but they havent  been 
charged a fee for cancelling their policies.  The money Beals has asked them  to pay is 
effectively its fee for the advice it gave in 2016 that they didnt have to pay at the time 
because it received commission.
I completely agree with Mr and Mrs Ls sentiment that they shouldnt have to pay for 
unsuitable advice.  But I dont share  their view that the policies they were  sold were  
unsuitable. There are differences between the critical illness cover offered by different  
insurers and when cover  is taken  and the applicants dont know  what might happen to 
them in the future - its not necessarily possible to say which  policy is better  than the others. 
But at the time they were sold in 2016, the terms of the Friends Life policies were consistent 
with the required  standards  for critical illness cover  laid out in guidance issued by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI), including the policy definition  of benign brain tumour 
Mr and Mrs L have referred to.
Critical illness cover has evolved over time, with more recent policies  generally  covering 
more illnesses. Changes  in medical science  have also meant the definitions (the 
requirements for a claim to be met) of some illnesses have changed, with some  becoming 
easier to satisfy and some  harder. I understand Mr and Mrs L feel policies  currently  available  
offer more  comprehensive  cover than what they got in 2016.  But Beals could only 
recommend from the policies available at the time and Im satisfied what  was recommended  
was suitable for their needs at the time.
Ref: DRN28130793I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs L and isnt what they 
were hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained,  Im satisfied that the policies sold in 
2016 were suitable and that the documentation  from the time was clear about how Beals 
was being paid and the consequences of cancelling the policies within  the first four years.  I 
understand why Mr and Mrs L felt they wanted to change their cover  recently,  but that 
doesnt mean Beals shouldnt be able to recover the commission it received in lieu of a fee 
for its services that was then reclaimed by the insurer on cancellation.
Contrary to what Mr and Mrs L were  hoping, I dont believe there  are grounds on which I can 
reasonably require Beals to cease its attempts to recover money (up to the amount of 
commission reclaimed when their policies were cancelled) from them. But if it does continue  
to pursue the money, I would  expect  Beals  to do so in a positive and sympathetic manner, 
particularly if Mr and Mrs L are suffering  any form of financial hardship.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813079