K822xcomplaint
Ms C complains that TSB Bank  Plc allowed her account statements to be sent to a family  
members address.
background 
Ms C opened a joint account  with her mother in 2013. She says she found out, following her 
mothers passing away, that her mothers account statements were  being sent to her 
brothers address. Ms C says it would have been impossible for her mother  to have changed 
her address  and attend a TSB branch in person and believes her brother may have coerced 
her mother  into changing  the address. Ms C is concerned  that her brother would have been 
able to have seen her account transactions.
TSB says its records show Ms C attended a branch in 2016 to change the address and 
doesnt accept  making  a mistake. It accepts  it didnt deal with part of Ms Cs complaint as it 
should and has paid a total of £375  compensation.
Ms C brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator thought TSB had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator didnt think it possible to say that TSB had made a mistake  by changing the 
address and didnt  think  there was any evidence of Ms C suffering a loss. The adjudicator 
thought the compensation  paid for the poor level of service was fair and reasonable.
Ms C doesnt accept that view and says her mother didnt live with her brother and questions  
what has taken place.  She also doesnt  accept  that the level of compensation  is sufficient for 
whats happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise Ms C will be disappointed  by my 
decision.
I have looked  at TSBs records and I dont think its possible  to fairly conclude that it made a 
mistake by changing Ms Cs mothers address. I think it unlikely that TSB would have agreed 
to change the address without instructions from Ms Cs mother  and or evidence that 
someone else was acting on her behalf. I appreciate Ms C believes  that her brother  may 
have acted inappropriately  but I dont think TSB would have been aware of that. And I cant  
fairly hold TSB responsible for Ms Cs brothers actions if he was involved in what  took place.
As I dont think TSB has made a mistake  or acted  unfairly about  the address issue then I 
cant fairly order it to pay Ms C the compensation she would like. I have also not seen  any 
evidence that her statements were seen by someone else or that she suffered any loss.
I can see that TSB has paid compensation for the way in which  it dealt with Ms C. I dont  
think that compensation was related to the address complaint and was for separate  
problems. And I dont think Ms C has complained to this service about those separate 
problems. But I make clear that I think the compensation award was fair and reasonable and 
I think fairly reflected  what took place and the impact TSBs handling of the complaint had 
upon Ms C.
Ref: DRN26355792Overall I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or made  a mistake  in respect of the change of 
address. I realise Ms C is unlikely to accept  my decision and I also appreciate that she may 
have unanswered questions  about  how the address was changed and why. But Im satisfied 
this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally  can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2635579