K820x#14complaint
This compliant is about Mr and Mrs Os mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC.  Theyre 
unhappy that Barclays is taking legal action  over their arrears  rather than agree to their 
repayment proposals.
background
Mr and Mrs O have two mortgages  with Barclays, a residential one of their home,  and a 
buy to-let  mortgage  on a second property. Theyve been in arrears on the residential  
mortgage for some time, and in early 2019, were  facing being taken to court  for a 
possession order. That action has been placed  on hold whilst we considered a complaint 
from them that Barclays hadnt given proper consideration to alternative ways  of dealing  with 
the arrears.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had treated  Mr and Mrs O unfairly, so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs O have asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Whilst the case has been awaiting review,  Mr and Mrs O have 
told us that Barclays  had indicated its intention to resume  the legal action. We spoke to 
Barclays and it agreed to a further hold until the complaint was decided.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally put recovery  action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont 
have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. 
It would also create  the potential risk of consumers abusing our service by making  
complaints with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate action 
to recover money owed to them. It should  also be kept in minds that even where  a lender 
has agreed to hold recovery action whilst we deal with a complaint, it can still change  its 
mind. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Ref: DRN25686402Turning to the case itself,  amongst the steps  Mr and Mrs O have  said Barclays should  have 
considered taking to help them are:
adding the arrears to the main balance; i.e. capitalising the arrears; 
extending the term; and
providing a further advance  on the buy-to-let mortgage which would be used to repay the 
arrears.
Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided;  the two things arent the 
same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering  help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations  where it can be seen their situation  is likely to 
improve. 
The dilemma  here is that Mr and Mrs Os difficulty in getting control of the arrears on their 
residential mortgage has been  anything  but temporary. The pressure to do so must be 
immense for Mr and Mrs O; of that I am in no doubt. But my impartiality  means I must also 
have regard for Barclays point of view. 
Capitalisation of arrears is a concession, and an onerous one at that. It permanently 
increases the mortgage balance by the amount of the arrears, and commits the borrower  to 
repaying that higher balance over the mortgage term, with all the extra interest  that goes 
with it. That requires a higher contractual  monthly  payment  than the consumers are already, 
by definition, struggling to pay.  
For that reason,  lenders tend to have strict qualifying criteria;  as an example,  its not 
untypical for borrowers to be required to pay the existing  full contractual  payment in full and 
on time for a minimum of twelve consecutive months. Even if that is achieved, it doesnt 
guarantee capitalisation will be approved; its merely  a pre-condition before lenders will even 
consider it.
A term extension can help in the short-term, because it makes the monthly payment lower 
and theoretically  more affordable. But the trade-off  for that is that the loan is repaid  more 
slowly, and attracts more interest  as a result, meaning the lifetime cost of the mortgage is 
substantially higher. So lenders tend not to agree term extensions  lightly,  and will only do if 
theyre satisfied that the resulting lower payment will itself be affordable.
As to lending more  money on the buy-to-let,  its my understanding that this mortgage is also 
in arrears, so I can understand why Barclays would be reluctant to increase the debt on that.
I do appreciate the sense  of frustration Mr and Mrs O feel, but it seems to me theres an 
underlying difficulty  for them in that theyve not got themselves  to a point where Barclays 
considers any of the afore-mentioned forbearance  options to be feasible options. Ultimately,  
Mr and Mrs O havent  been  able to persuade Barclays that they have a realistic and 
affordable plan for getting on top of their arrears.  
It isnt appropriate  for me to form my own judgement  on what  an affordable and/or viable 
payment plan should be, and impose  it on Barclays (or on Mr and Mrs O for that matter). Its 
not my role to analyse Mr and Mrs Os finances and decide how likely it is that they can 
afford to pay Barclays a particular sum each month to clear  the arrears in a realistic 
timescale. That is, and must always remain, for Barclays commercial judgement to decide.  
Ref: DRN25686403The prospect of losing ones home is a horrible one, and I am not unsympathetic  towards the 
situation Mr and Mrs O find themselves in. But however unwelcome it might  be, losing ones 
home due to mortgage arrears is not an impossibility, and nor is it something that I can say 
is inherently unfair. 
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Barclays in a final decision on 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint,  regardless  of their wider situation. If that eventually  leads to court  
action, that may well be unwelcome  to Mr and Mrs O but in all the circumstances I cant say 
its unfair. 
Mr and Mrs O dont have to accept  my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Os right to take legal action against Barclays  over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it. They 
wouldnt necessarily have  to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event Barclays was to resume  possession  proceedings, Mr and Mrs O can, if they 
wish, ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve presented  here as part of their 
defence. There  would  then be an opportunity for the court to decide  whether, in all those 
circumstances, it would  be fair to give possession of the mortgaged property to Barclays. 
There is always a possibility that the court might  grant a possession order  subject to a 
payment plan (such as Mr and Mrs O say they want)  being agreed  and maintained.
For completeness, and to be clear,  Im not saying Barclays  should or will take legal action.  
Im merely reminding Mr and Mrs O that it can. There are new circumstances in play as a 
result of the unprecedented  effects of the worldwide pandemic, and lenders have been given 
fresh guidance by the regulator  on how to respond  fairly to the current situations their 
borrowers present  them with. 
My decision  here has not considered what is happening now; it has only considered  what 
happened up to February 2019 when Barclays issued its final response referring 
Mr and Mrs O to us. It doesnt preclude  Mr and Mrs O from bringing  another  complaint in 
future about how theyve  been treated more recently
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Barclays Bank UK PLC. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2568640