K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that an advisor  at Pace Financial Management (Pace)  advised him to 
surrender investments he held in with-profits bonds,  and invest in an unregulated property 
bond which transpired to be a scam and has since been wound up by the authorities. A 
representative is making the complaint  on Mr Ps behalf. The representative says the advice 
for Mr P to surrender his with-profits  bonds  to make the unregulated bond investment was 
clearly unsuitable,  and that Pace  is accordingly  responsible for the loss Mr P has suffered. 
background
Mr P made an investment of £25,000 in a with-profits bond  on 27 January 2014. The 
application form for this investment records that Mr P had heard of the bond provider through 
an IFA  Mr M of Pace.  On 15 June 2015  Mr P made another investment in a with-profit  
bond from the same provider, of £85,000.  The application form for this investment also 
records that Mr P had heard of the bond  provider through an IFA  again, Mr M of Pace.
The bond  provider says an introducer fee was paid to Pace in relation to both these 
investments. The surrender of both bonds was instructed on 5 June  2017.  We have been 
provided with copies of both surrender  forms. The only handwriting on the forms which  
appears to belong to Mr P is his signature. Following the bonds surrender, a total of around  
£111,270 was paid to Mr P. 
On 22 June 2017 Mr P signed a cheque for £110,000, for investment in an unregulated 
property bond.  This initial cheque  was rejected, as the payee was incorrect, but a further 
cheque was issued  and the money paid to the provider of the unregulated bond. The 
business that issued the bond was later wound up by the Insolvency  Service, and the 
allegation was made that the bond  was effectively a Ponzi  scheme.  
Mr P suffers  from a mental illness, and asked  a representative to help him make  a complaint 
to Pace. The representative  set the complaint out in detail  to Pace in February 2018. He 
said:
Mr P and his late mother had a long term financial advice relationship with Mr M, and 
trusted him. 
Following the death of his mother,  Mr P required further income. So he had contacted  
Mr M at Pace to ask about this. 
This resulted in someone called Mr T, a former colleague  of Mr M, being  brought into 
the equation. 
There followed meetings between Mr P and Mr M and Mr T, following  which  the with-
profits bonds  were  surrendered and the £110,000  paid to the unregulated bond 
provider. 
No paperwork was completed to record the advice  given,  and Mr T was not regulated  
to provide investment advice. 
Mr M was culpable,  and so Pace should  compensate Mr P. 
Ref: DRN24300502In response, Pace said Mr M had only introduced Mr P to another party  he had not given 
any advice and had no other involvement.  Accordingly, Pace had no responsibility. Mr P and 
his representative  were unhappy  with this response, so referred the complaint to us. 
When referring Mr Ps complaint to us, his representative said:
It must  be remembered  that Mr P was a client of Pace and serviced by its appointed 
representative, Mr M. 
Mr P trusted his advisor. It was Mr M who suggested that his with-profits  bonds  were 
yielding no more than 1% per annum. It was Mr M who suggested an alternative 
investment (the unregulated  bond)  yielding 8% per annum. It was Mr M who provided 
the relevant sales  brochure and who arranged the meeting with Mr T, at which Mr M 
was present. 
It was also Mr M who completed the with-profits bond surrender documents that 
resulted in early  surrender penalties. 
Mr M told Mr P, in relation to the unregulated bonds, if it was him he would  have a 
piece of that".
All advice was given  by Mr M, not Mr T. Mr P would never have invested but for the 
involvement of Mr M. 
Our investigator looked into things and said, in summary: 
Hed been provided with copies of the application forms for the with-profits  bonds 
Mr P established in 2014 and 2015.  Mr M of Pace  was recorded  as Mr Ps advisor  on 
both these documents and was clearly involved in the setting up of the bonds.
Mr P has a history of mental illness and has been described  as a vulnerable person. 
Mr P had previously only invested  in low to medium risk investments. He did not think  
Mr P would have independently  arrived at the conclusion that his with-profits  bonds 
were returning 1% and that his interests  would be better served  by investing in a 
unregulated property bond.  He didnt think that Mr P fitted the profile of someone who 
would have surrendered the with-profits bonds and made a high risk investment of 
his own volition. 
The bond surrender forms were  completed  in handwriting  different  to Mr Ps. So he 
thought it likely that they were completed for him by whoever was driving the 
transaction and Mr P simply signed  them. 
Mr Ps testimony is that he was provided  advice by Mr M to surrender  the with-profits 
bonds in order  to make the investment in the unregulated property bond. As the 
financial advisor that set up these  bonds,  Mr M was aware Mr P would need to 
surrender these in order to fund any other  investment.  So, on the balance  of 
probabilities, he thought it more likely  than not that Mr Ps recollection  of events was 
correct. He was satisfied Mr M advised  Mr P to surrender the with-profits  bonds, and 
gave this advice  in the knowledge the surrendered  sum was to be reinvested in the 
unregulated bond.  
Ref: DRN24300503Advising Mr P to withdraw funds from a specified  investment  is a regulated activity as 
set out in the Regulated Activities Order  (RAO).  Therefore a complaint about this 
advice and anything  ancillary to it falls within our jurisdiction, as set out in the 
regulators handbook.
Mr P was in his sixties  at the time, and would have been  preparing for retirement. He 
was not in a position to take any significant risk with his finances as he wouldnt have 
been able to recover from any losses. The surrender  of the with-profits bonds  also 
incurred penalties. The advice to surrender the bonds to reinvest  in the unregulated  
property bond  was therefore unsuitable.  
He was satisfied  that the act of giving  the surrender advice  was the act of Pace. He 
had seen no evidence  to show that such advice  was not business for which Pace 
accepted responsibility. So he thought it fair to hold Pace responsible  for the loss 
suffered by Mr P, as the advice given by its appointed representative,  Mr M, to 
surrender the bonds in order to make  the investment in the unregulated property 
bond was unsuitable.
Had Mr P not been advised to surrender the with-profits bonds,  the money would 
likely have remained invested.  So compensation should be paid on the basis of Mr P 
having remained in the with-profits bonds. 
Pace did not accept  this view. It said, in summary:  
Mr M was only involved  in an introduction, which is not a regulated activity. Theres  
no written evidence  of him promoting or recommending the unregulated bond 
investment. 
Mr M was only an introducer in relation to the with-profits bonds. He did not 
recommend these to Mr P. Mr M may have helped Mr P complete forms, but that 
does not mean he gave  advice.  There is also no evidence  to show Mr M was 
involved with the surrender of these bonds. 
It has on file a risk profile  completed  by Mr P in 2017 which shows  he had an attitude  
to risk of 7 on a scale of 1 to 10. 
The surrender  forms contain various  different handwriting. Even if Mr M had helped  
Mr P to complete these forms, that doesnt mean  he advised on the surrender of the 
bonds. 
Mr M met with Mr P and Mr T simply to introduce  Mr P to Mr T. He did no more than 
that.
Under the agreement  between  it and Mr M, it was only responsible for things Mr M 
did on behalf of it. If Mr M did give advice in relation to the surrenders or the 
unregulated property bond,  he was not acting on behalf  of it. So it is not responsible. 
Mr M was also under  a contractual  duty to maintain  records  and no records were  
maintained here. 
Ref: DRN24300504It was decided in a recent court  case that a principal is not responsible for its agent 
where the agent is engaged in recognisably independent business  of his own.  
Again, there is no evidence to show Mr M was acting on its behalf here. 
Pace later provided a copy of the risk profile it had referred to. 
Before the complaint was referred to me Mr Ps representative made the following additional 
comments:
Contemporaneous email exchanges between  Pace and the provider  of the with-
profits bonds  show Pace being  described  as Mr Ps advisor, and that Pace  were  
paid around £4,500  in introducer fees in connection with the bonds.  
Mr M selected  the provider, the product, and provided the illustration to Mr P. He also 
completed the application form for one of the bonds. So it is not credible to say 
advice was not given by Mr M.
Mr M was fully aware of Mr Ps mental health issues. 
Mr M was a trusted  advisor and there was no evidence to show that he had not done 
a good job for Mr P. Mr P trusted  Mr M as there was no reason for him not to do so. 
Mr P had never heard of the unregulated bond investment nor Mr T until they were 
introduced to him by Mr M. 
If Mr M had suggested being  a little more speculative then Mr P would  have agreed  
to it, as it is in his nature.
The only significant  monies available to Mr P were locked in the with-profit bonds 
which, incidentally, were  performing  quite well. The only person  outside of Mr Ps 
family who knew of their existence was Mr M. The only way Mr P could re-invest  
elsewhere was by surrendering these bonds with the ensuing early  redemption 
penalties.
The handwriting  on the surrender forms - apart from the bond number, settlement 
amounts (these were completed  by Kingston Unity)  and signature - is that of Mr M. It 
matches that on the initial  bond  application,  which Mr M completed.
my provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision.  A copy of my provisional  findings is attached,  and 
form part of this decision. My provisional  findings, in summary, were:  
I was satisfied Mr M, acting for Pace,  had given  Mr P advice to surrender his with-
profits bonds, in order to make the investment in the unregulated property bond.  
Such advice amounted to a regulated activity. 
So the complaint was one we can look at, against Pace.  
The advice to surrender the with-profits bonds  to make the unregulated property 
bond was unsuitable.  This was essentially advising Mr P to replace a suitable 
investment with an unsuitable one. 
Ref: DRN24300505So Pace should pay Mr P compensation, based on the return  he would have 
received had he remained in the with-profits bonds, less any return  he received from 
the unregulated  property  bond investments. 
Pace did not accept  my view. It said, in summary:
It had not seen any evidence to show Mr P suffered from a mental  illness or was 
vulnerable. 
All the information  that it holds on file demonstrates that Mr P was fully aware  of his 
financial situation, had investment  experience, was unhappy with the performance of 
his bonds, and undertook a fully informed and impartial attitude to risk questionnaire. 
He was looking for higher returns and evidently  knew all the risks present.
Mr P knew exactly what  he was doing,  he knew the risks and chose, without any 
advice from Mr M or anyone acting on behalf  of Pace, to surrender the bonds in order  
to invest in the unregulated property bond  investment.  
I have relied on hearsay evidence without any scrutiny,  from somebody who is 
deemed vulnerable  (again without scrutiny)  to justify my decision. 
If there  is no documentary evidence that regulated advice was provided then on a 
balance of probabilities, no advice was provided.  Its records show  that there is a 
written record  of every other piece of advice that Mr M provided on behalf  of Pace to 
both Mr P and his late mother.
I think that regulated  advice to surrender was provided, purely  because  Mr M 
attended a meeting.  Based on this logic, the scope  of duty and financial advice is 
going to drastically  expand  because  any meeting  is now tantamount to regulated 
financial advice.
Pace Financial did not receive  any payment or commission or any notification from 
Kingston Unity  upon the encashment of the with-profits bonds. Pace did receive  
commission when it actually did carry out regulated work and assisted with setting  up 
the bonds. 
It agrees that Mr M was permitted to give advice on with-profits  bonds  and also to 
surrender them  (providing the client gives permission) but there is no evidence  to 
show Mr M attended meetings and provided advice on behalf  of Pace. It knew 
nothing about  a meeting, any alleged advice to surrender  then invest  in the 
unregulated property bond  investment, and received no commission.
Mr Ps representative, on behalf  of Mr P, accepted my view. He made  the following further 
comments, in summary: 
He had provided a doctors letter which confirms the detail of Mr Ps mental health 
problems, and that he was under the protective  care of his late mother and latterly  his 
sister.
Ref: DRN24300506It is not agreed that Mr P initiated  contact over "perceived poor performance of his 
bonds". The meeting  was arranged to discuss the question  of low interest rates  and 
Mr Ps need to enhance his income  stream.  He was in his sixties  and this followed 
the death of his mother. It was Mr M who advised that the with-profits bonds were  
making growth of 1% per annum and that he had access to the unregulated property 
bond investment  yielding 8% per annum. 
It is worth repeating that Mr M introduced the unregulated property  bond  investment 
to Mr P and provided him with a sales brochure promoting the unregulated property 
bond investment.
To suggest that Mr P was "fully aware of his financial situation, had investment 
experience and took a fully informed decision" is really quite outrageous. 
If Mr M was not acting for Pace  it is not clear who else he was acting for. 
Mr P had relied on and had total trust in Mr M for a period of 20-25 years. 
Mr P was not an experienced and well informed investor. He relied totally on Mr M 
and his late mother in relation to financial matters.
Given that Mr P had suffered varying  degrees of mental health issues  through  the 
entire 20-25 years servicing period under Mr M it is very difficult to believe  Mr M was 
unaware of Mr Ps problems. 
Pace was provided  with details of Mr Ps mental  illness, and the key evidence from our file. It 
did not make  any further comments. 
my findings
Ive first reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whether  this 
complaint is one we can look at. I remain  satisfied that it is. 
To confirm, as stated  in my provisional decision,  DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider  a complaint  under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor  any ancillary activities,  including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.  
I appreciate there is no written record of advice having been given to Mr P to surrender his 
with-profits bonds, in order  to fund the investment in the unregulated property bond. And I 
accept that such  records  are commonplace. But it does not follow,  as Pace suggests, that it 
should be concluded that the absence of such a record means no advice was given. The 
available evidence and the detail of the particular circumstances need  to be considered. 
Im satisfied that Mr P met with Mr M to discuss his investments. Mr Ps recollection  is that 
he met with Mr M. I think it plausible that Mr P did so, given that his circumstances had 
recently changed and Mr M was Mr Ps long-standing financial advisor. Following the death  
of this mother it seems likely Mr P would have wanted to discuss his finances, and it is likely 
he would  have approached his long-standing financial advisor to do that. 
Ref: DRN24300507After the meeting between Mr M and Mr P (and a further possible meeting between Mr M,  
Mr T and Mr P), Mr Ps with-profits  bonds  were surrendered.  It seems  someone (Mr P says 
Mr M) completed the surrender forms for him as the handwriting  on the forms is clearly 
different to Mr Ps. Then, shortly  after the surrender took place, the vast majority of the 
money was paid to the provider of the unregulated bond. 
Given his circumstances  I think it unlikely  Mr M would  have  independently decided  to 
surrender the with-profits bonds, in order to realise  money to invest in the unregulated 
property bond.  I do not think he would have  undertaken this course  of action  without being  
advised to do so by Mr M. Someone  else having  completed the surrender  forms for Mr P 
also suggests he was not acting independently. And it seems likely that someone else was 
Mr M, given  that is Mr Ps recollection and there is no evidence  to show anyone  else was 
involved in the surrender  of the with-profits bonds. Mr P also recalls  being given advice, and 
I think it reasonable to take that evidence  into account. So, overall, I am satisfied Mr M 
advised Mr P to surrender the with-profits bonds. 
I also think it unlikely that Mr P would have  come across the unregulated bond investment 
independently. This was not a product likely to be encountered by the vast majority of retail 
investors  and particularly not someone of Mr Ps circumstances. I think  it likely  that it was 
Mr M who initially introduced the idea of investing  in the bond  to Mr P, and that the surrender 
of the with-profits bonds  was discussed  in that context.  Mr P may also have discussed the 
unregulated property bond  investment with Mr T. But I am satisfied that it was Mr M, not     
Mr T, who advised  the surrender of the with-profits bonds to realise cash  to allow  the 
investment in the unregulated bond  to take place. 
To be clear, I do not say that I think advice  was given simply because a meeting took place.  I 
say advice was given as I think that is what most  likely happened in the circumstances, in 
the light of the available evidence. I do not think it fair and reasonable to conclude  it is likely 
Mr P did not receive any advice from Mr M on the merits of surrendering his with-profits 
bonds to make the unregulated bond investment. I think  it is highly unlikely  Mr P would have 
embarked on such a course of action had he not been advised to by his trusted long-
standing advisor, Mr M. It seems Mr M had always taken  advice  from Mr M about his 
finances. Ive not seen  any evidence  to show he had made independent investment 
decisions previously and, given the mental illness he suffered from, I think it very unlikely he 
ever took such decisions  independently.   
So, I remain  satisfied that advice was given by Mr M to Mr P to surrender his with-profits  
bonds, to raise cash to invest  in the unregulated property bond  investment. Such  advice was 
a regulated activity.  So this is a complaint about regulated activities. 
In my provisional decision I said Mr M appeared to be an employee of Pace but that if he 
was an appointed representative or agent  of Pace  I didnt think that made any difference  to 
Paces responsibility. I invited Pace to make  further comments on the relationship  between  it 
and Mr M. It has not made any such comments, but has maintained Mr M was not acting for 
it. 
Ref: DRN24300508Pace has not confirmed  what  relationship existed between it and Mr M  whether he was an 
employee, appointed representative or agent  of Pace. I remain of the view that, as Mr M 
entered into a contract with Pace as an employee that is the likely capacity in which  he was 
acting  which is consistent with the records on the FCA database. In any event,  it remains 
the case that Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show Mr M was not authorised  by Pace  to 
give advice on the surrender of the with-profits bond  if he was an appointed representative 
or agent. And I note Pace accepts in its reply to my provisional decision that Mr M was 
authorised to give advice on the surrender of the with-profits bonds.  So I am satisfied that if 
Mr M was working or acting for Pace when giving advice on the with-profits  bonds that is 
something Pace is responsible for i.e. that a complaint about  such advice would be a 
complaint about  an act or omission of Pace. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I have seen  no evidence  to show Mr M was engaged  
in recognisably independent  business of his own. Mr P approached Mr M as his long-
standing financial advisor who at the time was working or acting for Pace as a financial 
advisor, and was given  advice  on with-profits bonds which had been  arranged through  Pace.  
The fact Pace did not receive any remuneration for the surrender advice and does not have 
any record of the advice does not mean  Mr M was not acting for it. Ive not seen any 
evidence to show any other party was paid any remuneration  for the surrender advice and, 
as mentioned, in my view the absence of records does not necessarily mean something 
didnt happen.  I think the only capacity in which Mr M could conceivably have been acting 
here is as Mr Ps financial advisor   a capacity he held by virtue of working  or acting for 
Pace. I am satisfied Mr P approached Mr M in that capacity as it seems  he did on each 
previous occasion  he wanted advice on his finances. And Ive seen no evidence to show     
Mr M held himself out as acting in any other capacity on this occasion. 
So I remain  of the view that the complaint is about the regulated  activity  of the advice to 
surrender the with-profits bonds, and that this activity was the act of Pace.  It therefore  
remains my view that this complaint is one we can consider. Ive therefore reconsidered all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that the advice given to Mr P was unsuitable.  It seems  Mr P had a 
significant part of his savings invested  in the with-profits  bonds.  The bonds were  lower risk 
investments which  had the ability  to provide an income. So they were a good  match  to 
Mr Ps circumstances and objectives  they were suitable investments for him. They also 
had only been  held for relatively short period of time  a shorter period that would generally 
be considered  suitable  for such an investment  and had surrender penalties associated  with 
them. I think these reasons, in themselves, were sufficient for Paces advisor  Mr M, acting 
fairly and reasonably, to conclude that it would not be suitable  advice to recommend the 
surrender of the with-profits  bonds. But I also think Mr M knew that the money was to be 
reinvested in the unregulated property bond  investment, and that offered further reason for 
him to conclude it would  not be suitable  advice to recommend the surrender.  The 
unregulated property bond  was an obviously unsuitable investment for Mr P, given his 
circumstances and the intended  investment amount. 
Ref: DRN24300509I note Paces point that Mr P completed a risk attitude questionnaire in 2017, which recorded 
that Mr P had a risk attitude of 7 on scale of 1 to 10. Im not persuaded that such  a risk 
attitude was a fair reflection of Mr Ps circumstances and I think Mr M ought to have known 
that was the case. But, even if it was accepted that Mr P was willing  and able to take this 
level of risk, I do not think that makes the advice suitable. Such an attitude to risk was not 
consistent with the investment of a significant  sum in one unregulated property bond with no 
track record. 
I also note Paces assertion that Mr P knew exactly what he was doing. But I have  not seen 
sufficient evidence to show that is the case.  As mentioned, I think it very unlikely Mr P would  
have acted independently when it seems  he had previously relied on advice from Mr M. And, 
whilst Mr M may not have known the full extent of Mr Ps mental illness, given the degree  of 
illness suffered by Mr P, and the long standing  relationship Mr P and his mother had with 
Mr M, I think Mr M must at the very least have  been  aware that Mr P had mental  health  
problems of some sort or, failing that, he was not someone who was able to make decisions 
without seeking  help. So I do not think its plausible to say Mr M gave Mr P advice on the 
understanding he knew  exactly what he was doing. I think it far more likely  Mr M knew Mr P 
was not capable of making  independent  decisions and was reliant  on his advice. 
All in all, I remain satisfied  that the advice  Mr M gave, acting for Pace, was unsuitable. And I 
remain satisfied that if Mr M had not advised  Mr P to surrender the with-profits  bonds he 
would not have done so. 
fair compensation
For the reasons  given,  I remain satisfied that if Mr M had not advised Mr P to surrender his 
with-profits bonds to fund the unregulated property bond investment he would have  
remained invested in the with-profits bonds. So, to fairly compensate Mr P, Pace  should  ask 
the provider of the with-profits  bonds  for the value those bonds as of the date of this 
decision. This value  should assume  no withdrawals  were taken from the bonds. Pace should 
then pay Mr P that amount, less any return he received from the unregulated property bond 
investment. 
In return for this compensation, Pace can, if it wishes,  ask Mr P to undertake  to pay to it any 
return he might receive in relation to the unregulated  property bond investment in the future 
 for example, any payment  made  by the liquidators  of the business  that issued the bond. 
Alternatively, Pace can ask that the investment be reassigned to it, if that is possible. 
The compensation due (or the amount of the maximum  money award, if applicable)  must be 
paid to Mr P within 28 days of the date Pace  Financial Management receives notification of 
his acceptance  of my final decision. If compensation is not paid within  28 days interest, at 
the rate of 8% simple  per year,  should  be paid on the compensation amount from the date of 
this decision to the date of payment. 
Ref: DRN243005010my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Pace Financial 
Management pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Pace Financial Management should pay 
the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum  of £150,000 (including distress  
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Pace Financial Management pays Mr P the balance  plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN243005011my provisional  findings
Pace says this complaint  is not one we can look at against it. It gives two reasons  for this. It says Mr 
M only made introductions, so did not carry out any regulated activity. And it says Mr M was not acting 
for it in any event, and points  me towards the agreement between it and Mr M. So Ill begin by 
considering all of the available evidence, in order to decide whether  the complaint is one we can look 
at.
The basis of our compulsory jurisdiction  (i.e. our ability to look at things)  is set out in the Dispute  
Resolution (DISP) section of the FCA Handbook. In general terms the DISP rules  lead to a number of 
jurisdiction tests all of which must be satisfied. Those tests, in broad terms, require a complaint to be 
brought against a regulated business, be related  to a regulated activity carried out by that business, 
made by an eligible complainant within  certain time limits and to be within  our territorial jurisdiction. 
The complaint has been brought within  the required time limits, is about something which happened  
within the United Kingdom, and Mr P is an eligible complainant. None of these things are in dispute.  
As mentioned,  what is disputed is whether the complaint relates to a regulated activity, and whether it 
is about  something carried  out by Pace. So I have considered these  points.  
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a 
firm in carrying onregulated  activitiesor  any ancillary activities, including advice,  carried 
on by the firm in connection  with them. 
Here, Mr P complains that he was advised  to surrender  his with-profits bonds  and advised to use the 
money received from that investment to make an investment in an unregulated  property bond. Section  
22 FSMA defines "regulated activities" as follows: 
"(1) An activity  is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity  of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) "Investment" includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) "Specified" means specified in an order  made by the Treasury."
The relevant Order is the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 
(RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Advising on investments is a specified activity under  Part II of the RAO  (Article 53). So is arranging 
deals in investments (Article 25). So I have considered whether, on the balance of probability, advice  
was given  by Mr M to Mr P to surrender  his with-profits bonds and/or make the unregulated property  
bond investment. And whether any arrangements were  made in connection with either of these 
investments. 
As a preliminary point, I do not accept  that the absence of documentary evidence to show advice was 
given does not mean  advice was not given. Advice can be given  verbally without a written record of it 
being made. That is not necessarily good practice, but it happens. And, like the investigator, I think  
that is what happened here. 
Ref: DRN243005012Mr P says he contacted Mr M after his mother passed away, as he was seeking  more  income from his 
investment. Im satisfied  that is a plausible  recollection.  Mr M was Mr Ps long standing financial 
advisor, and Mr P had experienced a change in circumstances which  conceivably can have meant he 
needed more income. So I think Mr P approached  Mr M seeking  advice. 
I also think  it likely that, in such circumstances, the merits of Mr Ps existing investments in the with-
profits bonds would have been discussed. I do not think it matters whether  the original  sale of the 
bonds was advised  as the complaint is not about that original  sale. It is about  what  happened later 
when Mr P sought advice from Mr M. I think the important point is that Mr M would have been aware 
of the details  of the bonds having, at least, introduced  Mr M to them. And that those bonds  
represented a significant part of Mr Ps savings, as I understand it. So I think it unlikely that any 
request for advice of the sort Mr P made would  not have led to a discussion  of the bonds.  
I have not seen any evidence to show Mr P had any awareness of the unregulated property bond 
before contacting Mr M to seek advice. Mr Ps recollection is that Mr M advised  him to make an 
investment in the bond, saying hed have  some  of that. Again, I think  this recollection  is plausible. I 
think it unlikely that someone like Mr P would  have come up with the idea of investing in the 
unregulated property bond  of his own volition,  and I note it appears Mr M had some sort of connection 
with Mr T, who seems  to have had some involvement  with the promotion of the bond. I also think it 
unlikely Mr P would have  made  an investment without a recommendation from his trusted long-
standing advisor, Mr M. So it is likely  that Mr M recommended  the bond  to Mr P, when  Mr P 
approached him for advice. 
I also note that the surrender  forms for both with-profits bonds seem to have been completed in the 
same handwriting, and that handwriting is not Mr Ps. Pace says there is lots of different handwriting 
on the forms, but it looks to me like theyve been completed by one person,  signed by Mr P, and that 
any further writing was added by the bond provider  when  checking  the forms before processing the 
surrender instruction. Mr P says these forms were completed by Mr M for him. Again, I think this is 
plausible  Mr M was his long-standing  advisor, whom he trusted, and he had sought advice from Mr 
M. If the forms were not completed by Mr P they were most likely completed by Mr M.
Taking into account the above, I think advice  was given for Mr P to surrender the with-profits bonds 
and invest the proceeds in the unregulated property bond,  and arrangements made  to surrender the 
with-profits bonds. The complaint therefore relates to regulated activities. So I need to consider  
whether those activities were acts or omissions  of Pace. 
Its not clear what relationship there was between Pace and Mr M. The FCA simply lists Mr M as an 
individual at Pace,  suggesting he was an employee  of Pace. And the copy of a contract  between  Mr 
M and Pace that Pace has provided shows Mr M entering into an agreement with Pace as 
employee. So, in practice, Mr M may simply have been an employee  of Pace, rather  than an agent  
or appointed  representative. If Mr M was Paces employee then it will be responsible for his actions 
here  Mr Ms acts or omissions will be the acts or omissions of Pace. But, even if  Mr M was an agent 
or appointed  representative I dont think that means this is a complaint  we are not able to consider  
against Pace.  
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
Ref: DRN243005013Pace argues that Mr M was not acting for it at all. That is not supported by the available  evidence. Mr 
M was acting for Pace when the investments  in the with-profits  bonds were  made  (as mentioned, 
Pace received payments  from the bond provider for this business)  and Ive seen no evidence  to show 
Mr M was acting as anything other than Paces representative when Mr P later approached Mr M for 
advice. That is the capacity  in which  Mr P engaged with Mr M  as his professional regulated advisor, 
at Pace. Mr Ms complaint  is therefore  one which Pace must answer,  if it relates  to business for which 
it accepted responsibility (in the event Mr M was an agent  or appointed representative), as the acts or 
omissions of Mr M will be the acts or omissions  of Pace. And I think Mr Ps complaint does relate to 
business for which it accepted  responsibility.  
if Mr M was an appointed representative
Under section  39(3) of FSMA:
 the principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Without going  into too much  detail here (because I do not think it necessary) the courts have held that 
a principal is able to accept responsibility for part of an appointed representatives business 
(Anderson v Sense  Network ) but also that provisions in contracts between principals and appointed 
representatives can be inter se i.e. a matter between  the parties  (Ovcharenko  v Investuk) , which  do 
not impact the statutory  protection offered  by s39. In short, a principal may be able to limit what  
business it accepts responsibility for, but any requirements on how its appointed representative  goes 
about that business are a matter between it and the appointed  representative  a failure on the 
appointed representatives part to follow those requirements does not mean  s39 does not apply and 
the principal  is not responsible. 
Mr M was authorised to provide Services (1.1 of the agreement between him and Pace), which were  
defined as follows:
[the provision of investment advice to and the arrangement of deals  in investments for clients and all 
ancillary activities provided that, if such activities constitute Regulated Activities,  the Firm is 
appropriately permitted by the FCA to undertake those activities.]
Pace (the Firm) was permitted by the FCA to give advice on with-profits bonds. And, as mentioned, 
with-profits bonds are defined as investments in the RAO. The evidence also shows Pace was aware 
Mr M was dealing with the provider of these  bonds  and accepted large introduction fees  from the 
bond provider in relation to them.  So they were clearly a product Pace allowed Mr M to deal with. 
Pace might argue that Mr M was not authorised to deal with the unregulated property investment. But 
that doesnt change  things. If it is responsible for the advice to surrender the with-profits bonds,  then it 
is responsible for the investment in the unregulated property  bond too. The advice to surrender the 
with-profits bonds was given to release money to make the unregulated bond investment  it was 
intrinsically linked or coextensive  to the unregulated  bond  investment. As such, it amounts to business 
for which Pace accepted responsibility. That is a position established by the courts  (Martin v Britannia 
Life, TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service).  
if Mr M was an agent 
I think  the key point  here, again, is that the available  evidence shows Mr M was authorised  to provide 
services, which included investment advice. And that the with-profits bonds were  clearly something 
Pace allowed Mr M to deal with. So advice to surrender the with-profits bonds would be within the 
actual authority Pace gave to Mr M. And it will be responsible for the connected investment  in the 
unregulated property bond.  
Ref: DRN243005014Pace has mentioned  the case  of Frederick v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431. It gives an 
example of a person having a connection with a regulated  business  and doing something on their own 
account - engaging in a recognisably  independent business of his own   a property investment 
scheme.   But I am satisfied  here that Mr M was not engaged in recognisably independent  business of 
his own. As mentioned, I think he was acting for Pace. 
The above points are made to illustrate that I dont think it makes  a difference  if Mr M was an 
appointed representative or agent of Pace (as opposed to an employee).  If Pace wants to continue  to 
dispute its responsibility,  it should provide evidence  to demonstrate Mr M is not its employee, 
including details of what it told the FCA about the relationship between Mr M and it, when Mr M was 
recorded on the register as an individual at the business. 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances? 
As I am satisfied this complaint is one I can look at, Ill now consider all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps complains that he was given  unsuitable advice. So the point that needs to be considered  here 
is whether it is fair and reasonable to say the advice  Mr M gave to Mr P was suitable? I do not think it 
is. 
For the reasons  I have  given, I am satisfied that Mr M gave Mr P advice on the merits  of surrendering  
the with-profits bonds  investments he held with a view to reinvesting the money  in the unregulated 
property bonds, which he advised to be a better alternative to the with profits bonds. I think such 
advice was clearly unsuitable. 
Firstly, I do not think it was good advice for Mr P to surrender the with-profits bonds. They were 
investments which were suitable for Mr P, and had surrender penalties associated with them.  I think it 
likely Mr P would have  been  able to take income from the bonds,  if he needed or wanted to. And, 
going beyond that, I think the investment in the unregulated property bond was wholly unsuitable for 
Mr P, and Mr M ought reasonably to have known  this, and hence known the unregulated bond should 
not be recommended as an alternative  to the with-profits bonds. Mr M was aware of Mr Ps 
circumstances. And therefore ought to have known an investment of more  than £100,000 (a 
significant portion of Mr Ps savings, I understand) in an unregulated esoteric  investment carrying a 
high level of risk was clearly unsuitable for Mr P  a man in his sixties  who was reliant  on his savings 
to provide an income. 
Ref: DRN2430050