K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs M say Santander  UK Plc, trading  as Abbey National,  mis-sold  them  the 
PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 1996  and they paid a monthly amount for the cover.
The policy covered them both and would have paid a monthly  benefit  in the event  that either 
of them  made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment. This policy  could 
have paid out for a maximum of 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs M had to choose to 
take it out. Neither Mr and Mrs M nor Santander has been able to confirm  how the policy  
was sold. This means I dont have any notes to show what  discussions may have  taken 
place or any copies of paperwork that Mr and Mrs M may have seen or signed  but this isnt 
surprising considering the length  of time that has passed. I also need to take into account 
that recollections of a sale from over 22 years ago may have been  affected over time.
Ive thought very carefully about this but I havent  seen enough to say that its more likely 
that Santander didnt make  it clear the policy was optional or that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
agree to take it. So, in the absence  of any information persuading me otherwise, I think its 
more likely Santander made Mr and Mrs M aware  that they had a choice about  buying the 
PPI, and they chose  to take it.
Santander doesnt have a record of how this policy was sold but has treated it as though it 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. As this puts a greater responsibility on Santander, 
rather than Mr and Mrs M, Ive also considered  the complaint on the basis  that advice was 
given. This means  Santander had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example they were 
eligible for the cover and dont appear  to have been affected by the main  exclusions  or 
limitations to the policy, such as unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  
condition of which they were already aware.  
Mr and Mrs M have  told us they were entitled to at least 12 months sick pay from their 
employers and that they had savings they could  have  used   so they didnt need the policy.  
Receiving full sick pay for 12 months  is a very unusual and generous employee benefit  
Ref: DRN21531822based on what we know about their professions,  I think  its more likely to have been  six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay. But in any event, this policy  could have 
paid out for up to 24 months which would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer  than,  
their sick pay. And it would have provided cover  for the same length  of time if they were to 
lose their jobs.  By having this policy they could have  protected  their savings for another 
purpose or used them to cover other essential  living expenses. So I still think  the policy 
could have provided them with a useful  benefit.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  its more likely  that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, including what  they have said about 
being able to ask their family for help. Whilst I appreciate that their family would have wanted 
to help them, such support cant be relied upon  as their circumstances can also change, 
meaning they are unable  to provide financial assistance. 
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont  think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result  
of anything that Santander  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2153182