K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that hes seeing unwanted marketing while  using his Lloyds Bank  PLCs  
mobile banking  application (app).
background
On 13 December 2018 Mr V contacted Lloyds to complain  that while using his mobile 
banking app he can see advertising such as account upgrade options and overdraft offers.  
He said the adverts  are inappropriate  because he has no requirement for the products hes 
being shown.  Hes also very unhappy that hes seeing adverts because hes previously 
asked not to be subject to any marketing  material. 
In his complaint,  Mr V said the advertising he can see while  using the mobile banking app is 
causing him distress  as he doesnt want any marketing approaches or wish to see any 
marketing information.  And he asked Lloyds  to either make  an app with no adverts or enable 
him to opt out of viewing  marketing material while  using the app.
After Lloyds investigated Mr Vs complaint it didnt uphold it. It stated that it had provided Mr 
Vs feedback  about the marketing he could see while using his app to its digital team.  But it 
was unlikely this situation would change. It told Mr V that if he didnt want  to see adverts he 
could use the desktop version of the app. And it didnt think that it had made an error here or 
think it needed to offer Mr V any form of compensation.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Mr V brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  
looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr V, didnt think  that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. But Mr V disagreed with our adjudicator  and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr V has experienced a degree  of upset and frustration about seeing unwanted 
marketing while using  his Lloyds mobile  banking  app. I can see how strongly he feels  about 
this and I appreciate  the reasons why he brought his complaint to us. 
Its clear that he doesnt want  to receive  any marketing approaches from Lloyds. And Ive 
seen evidence of complaints hes raised in the past when hes received advertising  materials  
or seen  adverts  about products that Lloyds  offers  its customers. But, Im not going to be able 
to help Mr V in the way he would like. Ill explain why. 
From correspondence  Mr V has sent our adjudicator, I think he considers this service has 
some sort of regulatory  function. So I should make it clear at the outset we are not a 
regulator. The Financial  Ombudsman Service provides informal  dispute resolution.  When  an 
individual consumer  has a complaint  about  a financial business (thats within  our jurisdiction)  
well look into the matter.  And, if were satisfied  the business has done something wrong, 
well require  it to put things right. 
Ref: DRN20887492I dont have the power to tell Lloyds to change the way it works on a day to day basis.  This 
means I cant require Lloyds to make  an app with no adverts or provide one which  enables  
Mr V to opt out of viewing marketing material while using it as hes requested.  
Mr V has told Lloyds  that he doesnt want any marketing approaches and hes declined 
marketing on all platforms.  Ive seen evidence that Lloyds  has acted on his instructions here 
by switching off his marketing preferences. And, when looking at Mr Vs preferences  in 
relation to online banking in particular,  I can see Lloyds opted him out of viewing marketing  
material.
But the marketing  preferences Lloyds lists for a customer  to opt out of dont include mobile  
banking. So, when  a customer  uses an app to access their account, their marketing 
preferences arent taken into consideration. Mr V couldnt be expected to know this of 
course. So in thinking  about whats fair here Ive considered whether Mr V was made aware 
that the app would contain marketing before he started using it.
When Mr V downloaded  and installed Lloyds mobile banking  app he wouldve been made 
aware that the app contains  adverts. I say this because Ive seen  the screenshots  Lloyds  
has provided which demonstrate how the app is advertised before its downloaded  by a 
customer. Directly below  the install button it tells a customer  that the app contains adverts. 
And it makes clear  that these adverts  have been placed by the app developer.
I think this information  is sufficiently clear to warn customers  the app would market products  
to them.  And in choosing to download  the app Im satisfied that Mr V agreed  to any 
advertising the app would show  him while he would be using it. 
I appreciate that Mr V had told Lloyds clearly that he didnt want  to receive  any marketing. 
But this mobile  banking app falls outside  the scope  of the marketing preferences  that 
customers can register with Lloyds. So, what Mr V has told Lloyds about his marketing 
choices wouldnt apply  to the banking app. As the adverts have been placed by the app 
developer I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for the adverts  Mr V can see when he used  
the app. It follows  that Im not persuaded that Lloyds has made  a mistake or done anything  
wrong here.
Mr V has asked  Lloyds to create an online banking app without adverts but Lloyds has said 
this isnt possible. Mr V has said other banks dont show adverts via their apps. So he 
doesnt understand why Lloyds cant offer customers an advert  free app. But its not our role 
to comment on what other  banks offer their customers and the wider  industry issues Mr V 
has raised here.
I understand that a desktop  version of the app is available  for Mr V to use if he wishes.  This 
platform is something Mr V could access via his mobile phone. And Lloyds said he wouldnt 
see the adverts hes able to see on the app if he used the desktop  version  instead.  This is 
because its online banking platform takes a customers marketing preferences into account. I 
think this is a reasonable alternative method of banking that Mr V could use.
I can see from contact notes  Lloyds  has provided  our service with that its tried to explain 
that it cant stop the adverts appearing and that this isnt going to change  in the foreseeable 
future. And its offered  to feedback Mr Vs concerns to its digital department.  I think this is a 
fair and reasonable approach by Lloyds to Mr Vs complaint.
Ref: DRN20887493I understand Mr V will be disappointed by this decision and I recognise that he feels very 
strongly about the issues raised in this complaint.  But taking everything into account, I think  
that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be asking it do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088749