K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs F complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (BoS) revised its mortgage 
recommendation after reassessing Mr K and Mrs Fs financial position. Theyre  unhappy that 
the term of the new mortgage recommended is shorter  and the monthly repayments are 
higher. Mr K and Mrs F say the new mortgage isnt affordable for them and they want BoS to 
reinstate its original recommendation.
background
In 2017, Mr K and Mrs Fs interest-only mortgage  with Birmingham Midshires  (BM) came  to 
an end. BM is part of BoS, but its managed as a separate brand. They  were  told by BM that 
it couldnt offer additional borrowing, but they could apply to re-mortgage  with BoS.
In August  2018,  BoS recommended a part repayment and part interest-only mortgage over a 
term of twelve years.  The monthly  repayments were calculated to be around £720. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr K changed employment. He explained that although he had a higher 
salary, various factors  including having  to buy a new car as the old job included a company 
car - meant that they would actually be around  £400 per month worse off.
In December 2018, BoS reassessed Mr K and Mrs Fs financial circumstances following 
Mr Ks change  of employment. It provided a new recommendation for a part repayment and 
part interest-only mortgage over a reduced term of six years.
Following its review of Mr K and Mrs Fs income  and expenditure, BoS says it felt               
Mr K and Mrs F could afford to move £5,000 of the interest-only borrowing to repayment and 
they could repay the mortgage  over a shorter term. The revised monthly repayments  were 
calculated to be around £1,100.
Mr K and Mrs F were unhappy with the new recommendation because they didnt think  they 
could afford  the increased monthly  repayments.  They complained to BoS and asked it to 
reinstate its original recommendation, but it refused to do this. 
Unhappy with BoSs response, Mr K and Mrs F referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint and initially felt BoSs initial recommendation was more 
suitable for Mr K and Mrs F. However,  due to Mr K becoming unemployed, she didnt feel it 
was reasonable  to ask BoS to reinstate  its initial  recommendation.
Ref: DRN20810442my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Mr K and Mrs F are unhappy that BoS decided to reassess their financial  position several 
months after it had recommended a mortgage  they were happy  with.
I understand they were very relieved to have received  the recommendation after becoming 
increasingly concerned  they wouldnt be able to repay the outstanding balance on their 
interest-only mortgage. 
I understand Mr K changed employment after the initial recommendation was made and his 
yearly salary  increased by around  £2,000.
Whilst I can appreciate Mr K and Mrs Fs concern  and frustration at learning  BoS would be 
reassessing their circumstances, the rules of mortgage regulation (known  as MCOB)  require 
lenders to act responsibly and in the best interest  of its customers.
Given the change  in Mr Ks circumstances,  I think it was reasonable for BoS to reassess 
Mr K and Mrs Fs financial  position  to establish whether its initial recommendation was still 
suitable for them.
Mr K and Mrs F say the new recommendation isnt affordable for them.  I understand theyve 
completed their own income and expenditure assessment and they dont believe theyll be 
able to afford the increased monthly  repayments.
Mr K has also explained  that due to his job change, he no longer had access  to a company 
car and had needed to purchase  one on finance. He doesnt  think BoS has taken the 
associated costs of purchasing  and running a car into account when assessing his 
expenditure.BoS has told us that when  it reviewed Mr K and Mrs Fs income  and expenditure, it 
calculated they had a surplus income of £1,914.  Ive reviewed BoSs affordability calculation, 
and I can see that it has taken into consideration fixed costs and repayments  to creditors,  
including the monthly finance repayments  for Mr Ks car. Although,  I cant see it has included 
other costs  such as insurance and tax etc.
Notwithstanding this, Ive reviewed the calculation carefully and I can see why BoS felt 
Mr K and Mrs F could afford the increased  monthly  repayments, although  I do appreciate 
they would  likely be left with less disposal income than theyd like.
BoS has explained that by increasing  the monthly repayments, Mr K and Mrs F would benefit 
from moving £5,000  of the interest-only  borrowing  to repayment and a reduced term of six 
years. I also understand this would result  in Mr K and Mrs F paying less interest,  which I 
agree would be in their best interests.
BoS has also told us it had considered Mr K and Mrs Fs intention  to downsize when 
Mr K was planning to retire in twelve years time.
Ref: DRN20810443BoS says its initial recommendation  would only reduce the loan to value percentage from 
95% to 74%, based on there being  no changes to the value  of the property.  As such,  it was 
concerned there would be insufficient equity left in the property at the end of the twelve-year 
term for them to downsize  as planned.  Further, both Mr K and Mrs F would be retired and 
have a reduced income, so there  was likely  to be limited options available  to them.
Because Mr K and Mrs F intended  to sell the property at the end of the term to repay the 
outstanding mortgage balance, I can see why BoS felt the amount of equity left in the 
property was an important  consideration.
I understand Mr K and Mrs F had been intending to make overpayments and they felt 
confident theyd achieve this. This was because the initial  recommendation hadnt  factored in 
Mrs Fs part-time income and they intended to use this to overpay  until she retired.  
I also understand Mr K would become  eligible to receive a state  pension  during the term of 
the mortgage and they intended  to use this income  to make overpayments.  
BoS says that whilst it had considered Mr K and Mrs Fs intention to overpay, it couldnt  be 
sure this would  happen.  Further, it couldnt see any evidence  of them making  overpayments 
during the term of their previous mortgage.
I think this is a reasonable concern  for BoS to have had in the circumstances.
Further, BoS says its revised recommendation would reduce the loan to value percentage to 
71% over a shorter term of six years, based on there being  no changes to the value  of the 
property. And at the end of the term, Mr K was intending to work for a further  six years  so 
further options, such as a term extension,  may be available to them.
I also understand that BoS told Mr K and Mrs F that it would be willing  consider reducing  the 
amount of the borrowing  on repayment to reduce the monthly repayments, but 
Mr K and Mrs F remained  adamant  they wanted  BoS to reinstate its original 
recommendation.After carefully considering  all the information available  to me, Im satisfied that BoS has 
acted reasonably and it has considered Mr K and Mrs Fs needs, circumstances and best 
interests when making its revised recommendation. It follows that I dont intend to ask BoS 
to reinstate its original  recommendation.  
I understand that Mr K has unfortunately become unemployed since  referring  the complaint 
to our service. Mr K and Mrs F may wish to contact  BoS directly  to discuss  their current 
circumstances. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I didnt receive any additional comments or information from Mr K and Mrs F or BoS 
following their receipt  of my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20810444After reviewing everything,  I see no reason  to depart from the findings in my provisional  
decision that BoS has acted reasonably and has considered Mr K and Mrs Fs needs, 
circumstances and best interests when making its revised recommendation. 
I wont, therefore, be asking BoS to reinstate  its original recommendation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2021.
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2081044