K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called a Select account. He paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several potential  
benefits in return. 
Mr F thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the Select account  to Mr F, and didnt recommend  that it should give him any 
money back. 
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Fs case. Ive looked  
into everything that Mr F and Lloyds  have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Both Mr F and Lloyds have told us that Mr F opened  a fee-free account in 1991,  and that he 
later changed to the Select account following a recommendation  that Lloyds made to him during  
a meeting at one of its branches. Mr F has told us that this meeting took place towards the end 
of 1997. Lloyds doesnt have any detailed records going back this far, but I have no reason to 
doubt Mr Fs position. So I have considered this case on the basis  that Lloyds advised  Mr F to 
change from a fee-free  account to the Select account during a meeting in 1997.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that he believes Lloyds told him he had to change  to the 
Select account as it was withdrawing the fee-free account. Hes said that Lloyds told him that 
the existing account was being  discontinued and (he) had to move to (the Select 
account). Hes added that he did not want or need the extra  services  (the Select account) 
offered and only took (it) as he was advised  (he) had no other free option  available.
Lloyds was not withdrawing  fee-free  accounts  in 1997. It has continued  to provide them,  as 
have several other banks  in the UK. So if it did tell Mr F that he had to change accounts, I 
would certainly consider  that it had misled  him. However, Lloyds  has denied that it did this, it 
has told us that it left Mr F free to choose  the type of account he wanted.  
Its now more than twenty years since the meeting, and not surprisingly  neither  party  has 
been able to send us definitive evidence from the time to show  exactly what happened.  So I 
cant be certain what Lloyds did or didnt  say to Mr F.
I fully accept that Lloyds  may have encouraged Mr F to change accounts,  but this isnt the 
same as telling  him he had to change or denying him a choice. It seems unlikely to me that 
Lloyds would have  had a credible basis to tell Mr F it was ending his fee-free account, and I 
doubt that it did. I think it probably allowed  him a choice. 
Ref: DRN24368452As Lloyds  advised  Mr F to buy the Select account,  as well as giving him a choice, it had to 
check that the account was right for his needs before it made its recommendation,  and tell 
him about the accounts features fairly and clearly, so he could decide if he wanted  it.
In 1997, the Select account  was usually the cheapest packaged account Lloyds provided 
(although the cost of some others could be lower if customers  had balances  over certain 
thresholds). The potential  benefits included purchase  protection  and extended  warranties on 
purchases made through the account  or with a Lloyds credit  card,  and accidental death  
benefits. Depending on how Mr F used the account,  I understand  that it could also have 
provided him with a cheaper overdraft than his fee-free account.  
With so few records from 1997, I cant tell how useful these benefits were for Mr F. Hes 
mentioned that at that time he may have  been  interested in a loan and Lloyds has sent us 
some bank statements  from a few years later (none are available from the time) which show  
that he overdrew  his account quite  regularly. So it seems to me that the potentially  cheaper 
overdraft may have been of possible use to him. The other benefits may also have been of 
interest and I have not seen anything to make  me think that he couldnt have used them. I 
think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to recommend the Select account to Mr F.
In 1999, Lloyds added car breakdown cover to the Select account as a new benefit,  and both 
Mr F and Lloyds  have told us that he used this benefit on several occasions. However, as it 
was not available when Lloyds sold the account to Mr F, its not directly  relevant to this 
complaint.
I cant tell how much Lloyds told Mr F about the account during the meeting. But as Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend  the account to Mr F, and that it 
gave him a choice,   I dont  think that clearer information would have made a significant 
difference. I dont think Lloyds mis-sold  the Select  account to Mr F.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint about  
Lloyds Bank  PLC. I am not going  to tell it to give him any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2436845