K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim for a water leak 
under his home insurance policy.
background
UKI has told us its the insurer for both Mr Hs home emergency  and buildings insurance 
cover, although the home emergency cover is administered by another  insurer. So in this 
decision Ill just refer to UKI.
On 16 April 2018 Mr H made a claim to UKI under his home emergency cover after 
discovering a leak from a radiator pipe in his kitchen. After being  chased by Mr H, UKI sent a 
contractor to repair the leak on 19 April. They repaired that but couldnt  get the radiators on 
the ground floor to heat up. Mr H said as it was getting late, they agreed to leave it and see 
whether there was air trapped in the system which would  clear by itself after a few days. 
At the end of April Mr H contacted UKI again since the radiators still werent hot. He says he 
was told to sort it out himself with the repair company. Mr H didnt accept that. So UKI sent 
another plumber.  Mr H says the plumber said there was probably a blockage  in the dining 
room radiator but he didnt have time to drain  it.
Mr H says according to the plumber  hed recommended  a chemical power flush costing 
about £500 but UKI had refused to pay for it. He also quoted Mr H about £3,500  to replace 
the boiler and older radiators.
Mr H decided to have  his boiler replaced  by someone else. He said his plumbers found no 
blockage and all theyd  had to do to refill the system  was to switch off the upstairs  radiators. 
Mr H said he was unhappy that hed spent almost  £3,500 on a new boiler  unnecessarily.
Hes also unhappy about the repairs UKI carried out to his kitchen under his building 
insurance cover. He complained to its contractor that the job was taking far too long partly 
because of poor organisation. The contractor objected to the language  used  by Mr H in a 
call. It said it wouldnt be completing  the work as the relationship  between  them  had broken 
down. It said it would  offer a cash settlement  instead. Mr H says the work that had been 
done was sub-standard and they were generally  unprofessional.
In respect of the home  emergency claim UKI accepted that it shouldnt have declined Mr Hs 
request for help with regard to his radiators no longer being warm downstairs following its 
repair. It agreed that the second plumber should  have  done more to investigate why the 
radiators werent heating up. But it said it was right to say it wouldnt pay for the power  flush  
as this wasnt covered  by his policy. It said Mr Hs existing  boiler  was about 20 years  old. So 
it was approaching the end of its life. UKI offered Mr H £200 for the trouble and upset it had 
caused him and £250 as a contribution towards  his new boiler.
With regard to the repairs, UKI apologised for the poor service.  It agreed that the standard  of 
repair work carried out by its contractor  was sub-standard. It promised to get a new 
contractor to re-do the repair works. It also said it should have explained to Mr H more  
clearly at the start of the claim  that it would have  paid for his own plumber to trace and 
access the leak. It sent Mr H a cheque for compensation of £500  (separately to the £450 it 
had paid in respect  of the home emergency failures  which had occurred).
Ref: DRN27924262Mr H brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. He thought the 
compensation offered by UKI was within the range  of what  hed have said it should  pay.
As Mr H didnt  agree, the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the work  on Mr Hs kitchen is now complete (apart from three issues that Mr H preferred 
to sort out himself),  the only issue for me to consider is whether UKI has treated him fairly 
and reasonably in respect of the amount its offered  him as compensation for the trouble and 
upset its caused  him.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, its looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
It appears to me that there are three main issues in this case   poor customer  service, 
delays and poor workmanship by UKIs contractor. Ill look at the main points of each of 
these in turn.
poor customer service
When Mr H first contacted it, UKI should have been clearer about the process.  In particular it 
should have explained that it would have reimbursed Mr Hs costs if hed arranged  for his 
own plumber to stop the leak. I can also understand Mr Hs frustration that initially  UKI was 
very unhelpful when he reported  ongoing  problems with his heating  after its contractors 
repair. 
delays
UKI has caused Mr H unnecessary stress  because hes had to keep  chasing  it to get things 
done throughout his claim.  It shouldnt  have taken several months  to repair  Mr Hs property. 
During that period he had to live with an unfinished kitchen which was very inconvenient. 
poor workmanship
It seems  to be accepted  that UKIs various  contractors could have avoided  leaving Mr H 
without heating downstairs if theyd refilled the heating system properly. The power  flush 
recommended by another plumber turned out to be unnecessary.  Having reviewed  photos  of 
the repair work, I can see several instances  of poor workmanship. I also note that UKI 
accepted that work had been  done poorly  when it got another contractor in to re-do  the work.
I think that UKIs management of the claim, the delays Mr H has experienced and the 
substandard quality  of the workmanship of its contractors has impacted Mr H substantially.  
But it wouldnt be fair for me not to recognise that UKI has acknowledged  it was at fault and 
has offered to pay £700 compensate Mr H (not including the £250 it paid towards his new 
boiler).
Ref: DRN27924263Having taken all the circumstances  into account  I think that total compensation of £700 is fair 
and reasonable.  I appreciate that this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr H but Ive thought  
about this services approach to awards  made  in similar  circumstances  and I dont think  I can 
fairly award  any more.  If this complaint had come before me without any offer of 
compensation having already been  made,  its very unlikely, having  taken all the 
circumstances into account,  that I would have  awarded more  than £700.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792426