K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Miss H borrowed  £330  from Lending Stream in December 2016. The loan was set up to be 
repaid over the course  of six instalments  and her highest repayment set out in the 
agreement was £139.92. Miss H didnt meet all her repayments at the due date-  she set up a 
payment arrangement in February 2017. Lending Stream  didnt receive the sums due at that 
time and in July 2017 it offered to waive the interest  and charges incurred for the loan and 
accept the remaining principal amount outstanding  of £258.72. She eventually cleared her 
outstanding balance in April 2018.
Miss H complained that the loan was unaffordable,  and she took this loan to repay other 
payday loans.  She said she accrued bank charges because of failed direct debits. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. He said in summary that the 
credit information Lending  Stream obtained  at that time did not show  sufficient concern to 
suggest it should not approve the loan. He did not think it would have been proportionate in 
the circumstances to ask for the amount of information to show  that the lending  was 
unsustainable.
Miss H didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said that she wanted an ombudsman to 
look at her financial situation in its entirety  - had Lending Stream made  checks  into her 
financial position it is doubtful they would have provided her loan. Had proportionate  checks  
been carried out Lending Stream would have  seen she was maxed out with all the payday 
lenders she possibly could have borrowed from and she had over committed herself.
As Miss H didnt accept  what  our adjudicator said, the matter  has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision. To be clear in this final decision, I am only looking at whether Lending 
Stream irresponsibly lent to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
Ref: DRN20971472the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Miss H could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
As I explained above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldnt necessarily have  expected 
Lending Stream to carry out a full review of Miss Hs circumstances. Lending  Stream looked 
at Miss Hs income and her expenditure and, in this case, I think the checks  it did were 
proportionate. At the time Miss H applied for her loan, she stated that she had a monthly  
income of £1,535.00 and confirmed she was in full time employment. Lending Stream  
verified her income with third party sources.  Miss H also confirmed that her monthly 
expenditure was around £825.00  for which she gave a breakdown.  In addition, Lending 
Stream said a third-party credit reference  agency confirmed a satisfactory rating for the loan 
obligation. Based on the checks Lending  Stream carried out it believed  this loan was 
affordable for Miss H. 
Ive considered with care what Miss H has told us about her other payday loans which  she 
had running at the same time. But at this point in the lending relationship I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending  Stream to have carried  out further,  more  in-depth 
checks that might have shown Miss H was having problems managing  her money.
And the information  Lending Stream gathered, and saw didnt prompt  it to investigate 
Miss Hs circumstances  further. So, at this early stage I think  it was reasonable for it to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think Lending  Streams assessment for this loan was 
proportionate and the checks  it carried out showed it that Miss H was able to afford the 
Ref: DRN20971473repayments she committed  to. It follows that I think that when Miss H applied for this loan, 
Lending Streams  decision to lend was reasonable. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss H. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I havent  
upheld the complaint. I dont need  to tell Lending Stream  to take any further action in respect 
of it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097147