K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr B says Progressive Building Society  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mr B has said it wasnt  made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  The sale took 
place some time ago and so its difficult to be certain what was said when the PPI 
was sold to Mr B. But I can see that he applied for the PPI separately to the 
mortgage and he says he was told it wasnt compulsory at the time of sale (but it 
might be later). So on balance I think Progressive  made it clear that Mr B didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he 
may not remember this.
Mr B says he was pressured  into buying the PPI by Progressive. And I dont doubt 
his genuine feelings  about what happened  in the meeting.  But other than raising this 
issue, and saying  he was told he may have to buy PPI in in the future, he hasnt 
provided any detail  as to why he felt pressured. Again thats understandable given  
the time thats  passed. But this does  mean  I havent  seen enough  to uphold the 
complaint only on what  hes said.
Progressive says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. And whilst  I note what Mr B 
says I havent seen any details of the advice it mayve given. So it didnt have  to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he 
needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Progressive gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B paid on his PPI  and whether Progressive 
treated him unfairly. 
Progressive has told us that the commission for Mr Bs PPI was less than half of what he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Progressive has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Bs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about  the commission  
so I dont think Progressive treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr B 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN28819512my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2881951