K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the way in which Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled a claim  he made  on his legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr B feels  RSA should compensate him for this. 
background
In January 2019 Mr B made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to fund 
an employment claim. 
Mr B initially  spoke with RSAs panel  firm about the dispute who said theyd review things 
and provide an update. Four days later that panel  firm told RSA they had a conflict of interest  
so couldnt act for Mr B.
Six days after that RSA asked a second panel firm whether they could  act for Mr B. They  
provided his name and address as well as the name and address of his employer.  Four  
days later Mr B asked RSA for an update. He told them that early  conciliation  with his 
employer was due to end five days later. RSA said they were  waiting for the outcome of a 
conflict check with one of their panel  firms.  
A couple of days later the second  panel firm confirmed to RSA they werent conflicted and 
could act for Mr B. As a result RSA sent over Mr Bs papers  to allow  them to assess his 
claim. The following  day, the second  panel firm got in touch  with RSA to say that theyd 
discovered a conflict of interest so couldnt act for Mr B. 
RSA told Mr B they didnt  have any other  panel  firms  to offer him so gave him the freedom  to 
choose his own solicitor. Mr B asked  RSA if theyd fund a direct access  barrister instead. 
RSA agreed to this and subsequently the hourly rates  for that barrister.
Mr B is unhappy with how RSA handled  his claim. He feels  their conduct  caused delays in 
his claim being dealt with. In particular hes unhappy  that RSA:
1.didnt provide the information required by its second panel firm to carry out their conflict 
check
2.didnt take action promptly when they received  an out of office reply from the second 
panel firm
3.didnt inform Mr B he could instruct a direct  access barrister
4.shouldve supplied  information to help him find a suitable solicitor or direct  access 
barrister when it became  clear their panel firms  couldnt act
5.delayed telling him the first panel  firm couldnt act for him
6.delayed providing  this service with the information needed to assess  his complaint
7.didnt ensure that their claims handlers dont give legal advice
8.sent a final response letter to Mr B at the wrong  address  but said they hadnt
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaints. Overall she didnt uphold them but she also 
thought we couldnt consider at points 6 to 8. Mr B doesnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN21116582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Information provided by RSA to the second  panel firm
Having considered everything  both parties  have  said, Im not satisfied that RSA provided 
incorrect or incomplete information to the second  panel firm. Rather it seems the second 
panel firm chose not to use Mr Bs employers postcode when carrying out an initial conflict  
check. So I dont  think RSA did anything wrong.  If Mr B remains unhappy with the way in 
which the conflict check was carried out, he should  raise it with the second panel  firm 
directly. 
Out of office reply  from second panel  firm
When RSA initially got in touch with the second panel firm, they did so by email. The email 
was sent to two contacts.  I understand one of those contacts had left the firm. An out of 
office reply was received for the other which said he was in meetings  with no access  to email  
on that day and if the matter was urgent, contact should be made with another  person.
Mr B feels  that RSA shouldve done something  when the out of office reply was received.  
But I dont agree. Contact had been  made with the second panel firm to enquire about 
whether they would accept instructions on Mr Bs matter. This meant  theyd need to carry out 
a conflict check. There  was nothing in that instruction that required a response that same  
day and the out of office reply they received didnt suggest the recipient would be 
unavailable beyond  the day the email  was received. So although  Mr B was keen to have 
representation in place, I dont think this means that RSA needed to follow up that email 
immediately. It was reasonable for them to allow the second panel firm at least  a day or two 
to reply. And there  was no prejudice to Mr B in RSA not following the email up the same  day; 
he chased them the following day, RSA then contacted the second  panel firm who confirmed 
that they couldnt act the day after that. Theres nothing  in that sequence  of events that 
suggests matters were unnecessarily delayed as a consequence of RSAs  conduct. 
Instruction of a direct  access barrister & information  about alternative representation
Mr B feels  that RSA shouldve provided him with more information and support when giving 
him freedom  to choose his own representative.  But I dont think  their not doing  so caused Mr 
B any particular problems. Thats because Im not looking at what might have happened- 
rather Im considering what did happen in this complaint. And the documents Ive seen make 
clear that Mr B was aware that he could instruct a direct access barrister since he made 
contact with one immediately after RSA told him he could choose his own representation. He 
also discussed the possibility of such an instruction with RSA when they gave him freedom 
of choice, which they agreed  to review once he found someone to act for him in this 
capacity.
Mr B also feels  RSA didnt make clear how much  it would  pay his barrister.  I dont agree. 
When Mr B asked  RSA this question, RSA confirmed their agreement  to the fees being  in 
line with the solicitors fees they said they were prepared to pay. And if Mr B wasnt  clear 
about this, he couldve asked RSA for clarity.  We wouldnt expect an insurer to provide open 
ended information  to cover every  possible  scenario.  In this case,  Mr B chose to instruct  a 
Ref: DRN21116583direct access barrister  which  is less common than the instruction of a firm of solicitors.  So I 
dont think RSA acted  unfairly by not providing  information about what  theyd pay in that 
scenario up front. Rather  they provided information on what theyd pay a firm of solicitors, 
which Mr B then applied  to his barristers  fees.  This wasnt disputed  by RSA so it didnt 
cause Mr B any particular problem.
Delays in communicating  a conflict of interest
After the first panel firm told RSA they couldnt  act for Mr B, it took them  five working  days to 
communicate this to Mr B. I dont  think this is excessive nor is it outside the service 
standards Id expect  to see. 
Mr B chased  both the first panel firm and RSA in that time. But I dont think  his doing so 
means that RSA did anything wrong  by not getting back to him sooner or that hes entitled  to 
compensation for this.
When deciding this complaint generally,  Ive considered whether RSA has acted  fairly  in 
providing the service  they did to Mr B. So whilst I appreciate that some of the suggestions Mr 
B has made about  how RSA shouldve behaved might amount to very good customer  
service, this doesnt mean they did something wrong by conducting themselves as they did. 
Mr Bs complaint points  6-8
As our investigator explained, these arent points we can consider. 
A complaint about delays by businesses  providing  this service with information once a 
complaint has been brought  to us isnt a regulated activity in accordance with our rules.  So 
were not able to consider it. Equally complaints about a firm of solicitors  providing legal 
advice (whether requested or not) isnt something  we can consider. Mr B should  take that up 
with that firm directly, or its regulator  should he remain unhappy. 
Finally, Mr Bs complaint  about RSA sending a final response letter to the wrong address 
isnt something Im addressing in this complaint. Thats  because  it was raised after Mr B 
brought his complaint to us. So it should  be considered separately by RSA and this service if 
Mr B still wishes to pursue  this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  against  Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2111658