K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about her home insurer  U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) in relation to a 
charge it asked her to pay and generally  how it handled her fire claim.
Mrs S complained to us initially  about delays. She later complained  about  further  delays, as 
well as poor claim handling and a charge UKI had asked her to pay. Whilst to date weve  
dealt with these  issues under separate complaint  references, for ease, Ill now deal with 
everything together here in this one decision.
background
There was a fire at Mrs Ss home  in November 2017. UKI accepted a claim and appointed a 
loss adjuster and contractors. Mrs Ss home is listed  and consequently, as the damage  was 
substantial, planning permission was required  for the repairs. The contractor needed  to 
have a scope  of work ready for the planning hearing. The scope prepared contained lots of 
errors. The contractor refused to amend it and planning was granted  but subject to lots of 
conditions because of the poor and incorrect scope.
In around July 2018 UKI accepted that appointing the contractor had been  a mistake  it 
wasnt experienced in dealing with listed properties.  UKI noted that it hadnt been aware the 
property was listed when  cover was arranged  it doesnt usually offer cover for listed 
properties. It agreed to appoint a conservation specialist to progress the claim.
In August  2018  Mrs S made her first complaint to this service. The specialist visited Mrs Ss 
home in September 2018 to prepare  a report on the necessary repairs.
In the meantime, Mrs S had been living in a caravan  in the grounds  of her home. When the 
claim was made, believing repairs would take around 6  9 months shed asked  UKI to 
arrange this accommodation which would allow her to live on site with her dogs and better  
be able to feed and look after her other animals.  UKI spoke  to a caravan dealer  it paid
£40,000 for a 30-foot caravan which the company  agreed to buy back  after a year, at a cost 
of £25,400, depending on its condition at the time of its return. Whilst Mrs S had been  
happy with this arrangement, by the time the conservation specialist was appointed, with no 
repairs having been done to the home, and other concerns existing about the caravan, 
Mrs S asked UKI to provide an alternative place for her to live. It was agreed that a nearby 
property could be rented  and UKI would pay for Mrs S to travel  home  twice  a day to feed 
her animals.
Also, around September 2018, it became apparent bats had started  to roost  in the empty, 
damaged property. Permission had to be sought to remove them. Mrs S was worried  this 
would further delay repairs. However, when  the specialist issued its report on repairs, the 
loss adjuster questioned serval elements of it and, over several  months the report was 
revisited and revised several times.
In December 2018 UKI issued a final response  on Mrs Ss complaint that she made to it 
earlier in 2018  before first contacting this service. UKI accepted  the initial  contractors 
appointment had been  inappropriate and that this had caused delays. It noted there had 
been poor communication and that delays had also occurred regarding  the content  claim. 
UKI noted the change of accommodation  that had been agreed and said it felt the best way 
forward for the building  repair was for it to settle the matter in cash  based on the specialists  
report, which was being reviewed and revised  to ensure it reflected everything necessary to 
Ref: DRN27108512reinstate the property.  UKI said it was paying £1,000 compensation directly into Mrs Ss 
bank account  to compensate for the upset its poor claims  handling  had caused  to date.
Also, in December 2018 UKI had received  an offer from the caravan company in respect  of 
it purchasing the caravan back. The caravan  had been inspected by the company  in
October 2018 (with a report being  compiled  on the damage) and taken  away  by it shortly  
thereafter. The company noted wear and tear damage to the caravan which it felt was 
excessive for a caravan that was only a year old. It said it would only pay UKI £19,995 for 
the caravan. UKI asked it to substantiate and verify its reduced buy-back price.  Into January  
2019 the company said it was struggling to get quotes but it had made its offer,  in the 
absence of these,  based on its experience and knowledge. UKI accepted the offer.
At the end of January  2019, with some  further investigation work having been done  to 
establish the extent of damage at the property, the specialist issued a further report on the 
repairs. Some further amendments were then made at the request of the loss adjuster and 
a meeting took place at Mrs Ss home  to discuss the repairs  and what the report  covered. 
The report  said the cost for scaffolding was £656 per week,  plus VAT. Following these 
discussions UKI decided  to make a settlement  offer to Mrs S.
Prior to making the offer, and because the specialists report was based  on everything 
necessary to reinstate the property, including work  it had already done and charges due to 
it outstanding,  UKI asked  the specialist for invoices to date to establish what  was owed to it.
The specialist presented four invoices the last of which included  work done and charges 
due up to 31 January  2019 (totalling £134,260.74).  UKI wanted to pay these charges direct 
to the specialist, whilst paying the remainder of the reported costs  to Mrs S, so if any further 
charges were then due to the specialist,  they would have to be paid from the settlement 
made to her. UKI chose  to make this offer through  its solicitor. The solicitor wrote a letter  to 
Mrs S dated  29 March 2019. The letter said:
The amount of £874,814.78 is offered by way of net compensation and in addition, I 
confirm that the sum of £134,260.74 has been raised to settle payment of [the specialists] 
outstanding fees direct. This means  that the gross  sum offered is £1,009,075.52.
Mrs S emailed the solicitor that day and asked for confirmation that nothing further was due 
to the specialist, that UKI had paid everything to date. She said that, with that being the 
case, shed accept the offer. The solicitor  told UKIs  loss adjuster and the adjuster  noted the 
wording of the offer letter hadnt  been  clear that the payment  to the specialist  only covered 
costs and charges  up to 31 January  2019. UKI reviewed the situation and felt whilst on-
going scaffolding  costs would clearly be covered by the payment offered to Mrs S, it might  
not be possible for it to now clarify that other  charges incurred by the specialist after
31 January 2019  were  payable by Mrs S out of the settlement offered to her. UKI told Mrs S 
this on 2 April 2019 and on 3 April 2019 Mrs S agreed that scaffolding costs from
31 January 2019  would need to be paid from the settlement shed  accepted. As Mrs S had 
agreed this UKI released the settlement  amount.
On 9 April 2019  the specialist provided its final invoice. It was in the sum of £21,122.14  
(£17,601.78 plus VAT). The invoice said the charges were in respect of:
the balance of our contract for the scaffold  hire, including dismantling together with the 
balance of invoices  from suppliers, subcontractors  and consultants we had
not previously claimed.
Ref: DRN27108513The invoice also said scaffolding would be removed  from the property on 26 April 2019 
(thirteen weeks after 31 January 2019). A spreadsheet was attached which  tallied up all 
costs charged to date and payments  made by UKI. That showed the sum outstanding was 
the amount invoiced. UKI said Mrs S had to pay this. It also reminded her that, at the very 
least, shed agreed  to pay the scaffolding charges. With addition of related fees and 
including VAT, UKI accepted that thirteen-weeks of scaffolding would amount to 
£12,157.52.
Mrs S said she was no longer prepared  to make any payment  for this final invoice  from her 
settlement. She said UKI had delayed so long on making the payment, shed had no real 
use from the scaffolding. So she didnt think she should have to pay for it out of the 
reinstatement settlement.  UKI said if Mrs S didnt pay this sum, it would pay it and deduct  it 
from her contents settlement which was still outstanding.
In May 2019  Mrs S complained to us again. She was unhappy at UKIs  insistence on her 
paying the outstanding  invoice. She said rent hadnt been paid for the alternative 
accommodation either. UKI was also suggesting  that it would remove most  of the furniture it 
had hired to furnish the alternative  accommodation.  It said the limit for cover for alternative 
accommodation was being approached. It noted that the contents  claim hadnt been settled 
but that substantial interim payments against  the claim had been made. So it felt there was 
no need for it to continue  providing expensive hired items as Mrs S should  have started  to 
replace her damaged belongings. A dispute  also arose about council tax and some  items 
Mrs S felt UKIs removal  and recovery contractor  had damaged.
In July 2019 UKI wrote to Mrs S again. It noted she had already complained  to us but set 
out its position on what it saw as the outstanding issues to date.  UKI noted that £74,711.80  
had been paid against the contents  claim so far  including the invoice of £21,122.14  it had 
paid when Mrs S had refused. It also noted  there was a shortfall  in the buy-back price paid 
by the caravan company  against what it had been expecting  when  the arrangement for 
providing the caravan had been made.  It felt Mrs S was responsible for this cost as she had 
damaged the caravan and, thereby, affected  its buy-back value. It said after deducting  all 
the payments  it had already made and £5,500 being  the shortfall in the caravan buy-back 
value, there  was only £25,337.60 left of the £100,000 sum insured for contents. It said it 
would pay this in full and final settlement of the contents claim.
UKI went on to explain that it would  pay for the council  tax due for the alternative 
accommodation through to the end of January 2020 (it was covering the rent to that date 
too, but no further as it felt the house,  following its building settlement paid in April 2019,  
should be habitable by then). In respect  of the hired  furniture, UKI said it would continue to 
hire only a few limited items after the end of August 2019 (UKI later agreed  to keep hiring  
sofas too, all these items remained  on hire until the end of January 2020). In short  UKI felt 
Mrs S should have started replacing her items  with the interim settlements previously paid 
to her but accepted some  larger, bespoke items couldnt reasonably  be replaced until they 
could be placed  in the home.
Regarding a damaged rocking  horse, UKI said it had agreed to restore  this item, but that 
was before it had decided  to settle in cash. Its current cash  settlement overrode that 
agreement and as the contents  sum insured was exhausted, it wouldnt restore  the rocking 
horse. It noted Mrs S had suggested  this and some other items had been damaged by its 
removal and recovery contractor. It said if Mrs S wanted to pursue a repair for these, 
outside of the contents settlement, she should  contact that contractor direct.
Ref: DRN27108514Our investigator considered Mrs Ss complaints. She felt we couldnt  get involved in the 
dispute about the specialists invoice because this was all part of a full and final settlement  
which Mrs S had accepted. She felt UKIs position  regarding hired  furniture and payment of 
the council tax for the alternative accommodation were fair and reasonable. The other 
contents issues werent commented on. Regarding delays and claim handling, our 
investigator felt the £1,000 paid previously  by UKI was fair and reasonable compensation.
Mrs S was unhappy with the findings.  She felt we should be able to look at the dispute  
about who was liable  for the cost of the specialists invoice. Also, amongst other things,  she 
felt UKI should be paying more council tax, particularly as it hadnt  paid anything to date. 
When our investigator asked it, UKI confirmed it had paid additional council  tax due when 
the caravan had been situated at Mrs Ss home and that it had paid £2,535.42  for the rental  
property on 2 September 2019, for tax due until the end of January 2020.  Mrs S felt, given 
the 18 months of suffering shed been  though, UKIs  payment of £1,000  compensation 
wasnt fair and reasonable. 
The complaints were passed to me to consider and I felt we could look at the dispute  about 
the invoice. I also felt I needed  to look at some issues  regarding  contents items. So I issued 
provisional decision to share my findings  with both parties. My findings were:
specialists invoice
I am not concerned with the buildings settlement as a whole. That overall figure was agreed 
in full and final settlement  of the buildings claim. But the full and final nature of the 
settlement doesnt  prevent me from considering who is liable for the disputed £21,122.14, 
because there is clearly some discord  about whether or not any part of this was covered by 
the agreed  settlement. UKI has paid this invoice and withheld settlement of the full amount 
from the contents settlement. So I need to determine whether  it was fair for it to do so.
In principle it was fair for UKI to off-set this disputed amount. I know Mrs S has queried this 
because the policy doesnt contain any right to off-set. But I am satisfied that where an 
insurer thinks it is due money  that its policyholder is refusing to pay, it is reasonable for it to 
withhold other funds  which are fairly due in lieu of receiving payment. Not allowing insurers  
a right to off-set might  mean they lose out on funds fairly due to them, whilst settling other 
contract sums and having to take legal action to secure what they are owed.  That is
unreasonable given the simple alternative  of off-set. Of course,  this right has to be used 
reasonably and if the insurer is wrong,  that actually the policyholder  was right and these 
funds werent due, the insurer  might have to pay compensation and interest  to make up for 
its withheld, delayed  payment.
When UKI made the settlement  offer, it chose to do that via a solicitor. So, the offer was 
considered and put forward by a professional. But UKIs file shows  the offer wasnt put 
forward on the terms it had intended  to set out. Clearly a miscommunication between UKI 
and the solicitor meant the solicitor wasnt  aware that the sum of £134, 260.74 didnt equate  
to all the specialist  costs to the date of the offer, but only to 31 January 2019,  some two 
months prior to the date of the offer. Whilst the offer was, therefore, unclear, between  it 
being made and payment being provided  by UKI, the parties  did reach a meeting of the 
minds about the nature  of the charges due after 31 January 2019, which  would fall for 
payment from the settlement amount. Both agreed scaffolding costs  were due from the sum 
paid to Mrs S. UKI paid the settlement on that basis. Given that agreement and that UKIs 
offer was unclear, I think it withholding anything  more than the scaffolding cost was unfair 
and unreasonable.
Ref: DRN27108515Whilst Mrs S later retracted her agreement to pay the scaffolding  costs, I think that was 
unreasonable. Mrs S says it wasnt fair for any sum for the outstanding scaffolding  costs to 
come from her settlements  because the delay in payment meant she had no use from the 
scaffolding. However,  Mrs S agreed  to pay scaffolding  costs within five days  of the offer 
being made. And it was only one day later that UKI agreed to release the settlement. So 
there was no material delay by UKI at this time that might  reasonably  make me think it 
would be unfair  for me to hold Mrs S to the agreement she had freely  made  on 3 April 2019 
to pay the scaffolding costs from 31 January 2019, from the settlement UKI had paid to her.
What I need to consider then is what is fair payment for the scaffolding costs. After
31 January 2019  the scaffolding remained in place for thirteen  weeks.  UKI has confirmed 
the cost for that period is £12,157.52 (including VAT). Whilst Mrs S should reasonably have  
paid this sum to UKI, it withheld the total invoice amount  of £21,122.14 from the contents 
settlement. It will now have to pay her the difference between this sum and the scaffolding  
cost; £8,964.62, plus interest* from the date UKI paid the final £25,337.60  contents  
settlement sum to Mrs S, until settlement is made.
caravan buy-back
I dont think it was fair for UKI to deduct the short-fall in the buy-back cost from Mrs Ss 
contents settlement.  UKI knew when it entered the agreement with the caravan company 
that the price  it might  achieve  back was never guaranteed. Mrs S and her family  lived in the 
caravan for a year,  so it was always going  to suffer more extensive wear  and tear than that 
of a caravan used  more normally (for weekends and holidays) would do. I also note that 
UKI agreed  the buy-back  value without giving Mrs S a chance to challenge it and whilst  
foregoing evidence it had said it needed to be sure the value was being  set fairly. I also 
note UKI deducted £5,500 from the contents  settlement when  the reduced buy-back figure 
was only £5,405  less than the sum expected (£19,995 against £25,400).  I think  it acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  in deducting this sum. Im satisfied that UKI fairly and reasonably 
needs to pay Mrs S £5,500, plus interest* from the date UKI paid the final £25,337.60 
contents settlement  sum to Mrs S, until settlement is made.
council tax
UKI has no liability under the policy to pay tax for the insured property  a charge Mrs S 
would always be liable  for. UKI has paid the tax related to the two alternative 
accommodations Mrs S resided in during the claim. I see that its noted  that its payment for 
the rental property  comprised a short-fall of around  £7.00 against the total Mrs S was 
charged. I also see its offered to pay this. If it hasnt already, it now should. Im not going to 
make it pay more than this.
I know UKI didnt contact the council when Mrs S believes it should have done, but Im 
satisfied the method it used to calculate the payment due (dividing the cost for the year by 
twelve and multiplying it by ten to determine the charge for the ten-month period owed for 
Mrs Ss residency)  was fair and reasonable. Even  though  it did result in a slight  short-fall 
against the councils calculation (based on a daily rate). Because  it was calculated fairly,  Im 
not going to require UKI to pay interest against  the short-fall  amount.
hired furniture
I appreciate it was distressing for Mrs S to be told that UKI was intending  to collect  most  of 
Ref: DRN27108516the hired furniture.  I think it could  have dealt with this more  sensitively and it could have 
been clearer with Mrs S when making  contents payments to her about what  she needed to 
be doing and what its intentions therefore would be as time went  on in respect the hired  
furniture. But I think its decision to off-hire most of the furniture and leave Mrs S with only a 
few essential and large pieces was a fair and reasonable one. As such  Ive factored in the 
upset caused  by the way the taking back  of the furniture was handled into my 
compensation award set out below,  but not that which  stemmed  from the furniture actually  
being removed.
rocking horse
In October  2018 Mrs S said this was damaged by UKIs removal and recovery  contractor. 
UKI didnt  question this at the time or ask for proof, or direct Mrs S to speak to the 
contractor. Rather UKIs file notes show it was, even at that time thinking of settling the 
contents claim in cash. UKI and its loss adjuster felt that to persuade Mrs S to agree to the 
cash settlement, it needed  to be seen to be being  fair in other respects.  One of the ways it 
felt it could do that would be to agree to restore the rocking horse.  UKIs  files show that on 
19 October 2018 the loss adjuster told Mrs S it would appoint a restoration company to 
handle this. As the claim progressed Mrs S chased this on occasion, but nothing was 
arranged, and the files show that as time passed  UKI became less inclined to carry out this 
work, and indeed forgot that it had, and why it had, offered to do so. In April 2019 
comments on UKIs file show it felt it wasnt reasonable for it to restore the rocking  horse 
because the claim was being settled  in cash with the sum insured exhausted.
UKI when  it gave its final position  on the rocking  horse restoration  said:
At the time [restoration] was agreed by loss adjusters, a decision had not been  reached to 
pay out up to the sum insured limit on the contents  element of the claim. As [restoration] 
has not yet taken place,  and Insurers' are issuing payment up to the sum insured, there  are 
no available remaining funds to undertake  these  services.
From a general claims perspective  what UKI says makes sense. But, in the context  of this 
claim, given  what UKI knew  when  it told Mrs S it would restore  the rocking  horse, and the 
time that passed  since without it clearly telling her its offer had been withdrawn, its neither 
fair nor reasonable.
UKI accepted its contractor had damaged the item, or at least it chose to act as though it 
had done so. Changing its mind  so much later about providing settlement has arguably 
prejudiced Mrs Ss position  as establishing liability after such  a long time is never easy.  Im 
satisfied that its fair to say UKI needs to restore the rocking horse, or pay Mrs S for this to 
be done. To be clear, the horse was damaged in two ways; firstly by smoke  and secondly 
its paint was chipped  by UKIs contractor. It is only the restoration  in respect of the chipped 
paint that Im requiring UKI to now undertake  the restoration  necessary  as a result  of 
smoke damage falls within the scope of the limited contents settlement.
other damaged items
UKI noted that Mrs S had said some  other  items had also been damaged by its removal 
and recovery contractor.  Regarding these items UKI said that any settlement it could make,  
even if it was clear its contractor had caused  the damage, would always  have to come  from 
the sum insured, which had already been exhausted. In any event, UKI felt Mrs S should 
deal with the contractor directly.
Ref: DRN27108517UKI is, in my view,  wrong on both counts.  If its agent causes damage whilst undertaking 
work, especially when  that work is being  undertaken in respect  of a contract to repair,  then 
that damage has to be resolved by UKI outside of any policy limits.  The cost can still be 
recorded against the claim, but the contracted policy limits dont apply. Secondly,  as the 
contractor accused  of causing damage was UKIs agent, UKI is responsible for its actions, 
including any damage it might have caused.  So whilst UKI feels Mrs S should deal with the 
contractor, Mrs S can fairly and reasonably look to UKI for resolution. Im going to require 
UKI to assess the items and, if damage is found  and accepted to have been caused  by its 
contractor, arrange  to restore the item or provide any other  form of fair and reasonable 
settlement appropriate  in the circumstances.
claim handling
UKI has failed Mrs S in its handling  of her claim.  It seems neither party  knew  there was an 
issue with UKI offering  a policy for a listed property, and that UKI (itself) didnt know  the 
property was listed for a number of months.  But UKIs loss adjuster and the initial repair  
contractor knew the property was listed and that the repair contractor wasnt experienced in 
dealing with this type of property. The involvement of this inappropriate contractor,  at this 
point in the claim, set the repairs back by months.  In fact, at the time Mrs S had been told 
she should have  been preparing to move home,  the newly instructed specialist was only 
just starting to prepare its first report on costs. The errors caused by the contractor were 
also frustrating and inconvenient, not least as they impacted the planning  permission.
UKI having instructed a specialist, still then had its loss adjuster check  through  all the work 
and costs set. I can understand that UKI needed to verify the work. But it had appointed a 
specialist for a reason. In my view constant and sometimes unreasonable  requests by the 
loss adjuster for the scope  to be reviewed and revised werent  helpful.  But I note that some 
enquiries made by the adjuster did generate further investigative work  and, as a result, 
firmer costs  for reinstatement were able to be determined.  So the time between the 
specialists first report in September 2018  and its report in January 2019 (which  ultimately  
generated the settlement  in March 2019), wasnt a period of entirely unreasonably delay.
UKI has accepted  it caused delays in the contents claim, but I think  it continued to cause 
delays even beyond  its letter  of December 2018.  I note UKI did make interim payment 
along the way and these  did place Mrs S in funds which could have limited any 
inconvenience caused by its continued  delay to finalise the settlement. Of course  further 
upset was caused when the final settlement was paid less monies UKI was withholding   
some of which Ive found were fairly  and reasonably due to Mrs S.
I can see that notes on UKIs file show that a miscommunication occurred  in May 2019 
regarding rent for the alternative accommodation. UKI had instructed its agent to extend the 
rental period to the end of January 2020,  but someone unfamiliar with the file had been 
unaware of this and called Mrs S in respect  of the rent not having been  paid.  I can see from 
the file all this happened at a time when Mrs S had learnt UKI wanted  to take the furniture 
away and when she had been receiving treatment  for a serious illness. A representative  for 
Mrs S explained to us how, after she had received the call from the letting agent,  she had 
called him in floods  of tears. I dont doubt  this incident caused a lot of upset and frustration 
for Mrs S. The only mitigating factor being, that I see, that UKI responded quickly, 
investigated and provided an explanation within a very short  time of being made aware  of 
the problem.
Ref: DRN27108518Applying a conservative  interpretation to the initial repair estimate  of 6  9 months, Mrs S 
should have been back in her home  by the end of September 2018. Instead,  following its 
decision to settle  in cash and settlement for the building restoration  being made, the parties 
agreed the home should reasonably be habitable again by the end of January  2020. So, 
Mrs S was out of her home  for more than a year longer than she reasonably (conservatively 
speaking) should have been.  Taking  this into account with all of the other upset Im satisfied 
UKI caused Mrs S, I think it should pay her a total of £2,000 compensation. As £1,000 has 
already been paid by UKI, it only need  now pay the remaining  £1,000.
UKI, in the main, accepted my findings.  But its loss adjuster added  some further detail to 
my background and UKI wasnt  persuaded regarding what Id said about the caravan 
buy-back  amount. It said this should be seen as a security  deposit would be for a rental  
property. It said it felt a reasonable compromise would be to split the reduced amount in 
half, with each party being liable  for half of the overall reduction amount.
Mrs S said that the cost for scaffolding  only totaled  £10,233.60 including VAT.  So it wasnt  
fair, Mrs S said, to allow  UKI to deduct/withhold £12,157.52  from the outstanding  settlement 
for contents,  the most  it could fairly  take would be the £10,233.60.  But she reiterated that 
shed had no benefit from the scaffolding  due to the delayed buildings  settlement payment. 
Mrs S felt that a further £1,000 compensation given the further year of delay seemed low.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the extra  detail  set out by the loss adjuster  but it doesnt add anything  I wasnt  
aware of when I made my provisional  decision. My background is a summary of what 
happened  although here that summary has stretched to the better  part of four pages  it 
cant feasibly include everything.
I note UKIs general acceptance of most of my awards,  and I understand that is given, at 
least in some respects, on a pragmatic  basis. I remain of the view that what  I set out 
provisionally was fair and reasonable  in all of the circumstances.
The basic  scaffold amount, plus VAT was less than the £12,157.52 figure  Ive said UKI can 
reasonably withhold  from the contents  settlement. But prior to the offer being made UKI 
added £12,157.52 to its base sum to allow  for scaffolding costs and related charges for 
thirteen weeks to account for the delay in the settlement offer being made. 
When Mrs S queried the offer and what it included, UKI explained this. Mrs S then agreed to 
pay for the scaffolding for the thirteen  weeks from the sum UKI was offering. UKI then said it 
would pay the settlement  sum to Mrs S on the basis of her agreement regarding  these costs. 
I remain of the view that whilst UKIs  offer wasnt clear when initially  made,  both parties did 
reach a meeting of the minds about the fact it included £12,157.52 for costs already incurred 
and that would have to be paid from the total sum.  Therefore, as UKI has since paid the 
invoice which includes this sum separately, whilst Mrs S has had the benefit of this sum, 
I remain of the view that UKI can reasonably  withhold it from the outstanding contents claim 
settlement. 
I note Mrs Ss maintained  objection about the lack of benefit  she received from the 
scaffolding. But I answered that issue within my provisional findings. Im not going to go over 
Ref: DRN27108519it again. As I said provisionally, UKI should  now pay the difference between the figure Ive 
said it can withhold (£12,157.52) and the total sum of the invoice in question  (£21,122.14)  
meaning it must pay £8,964.62.
Turning to the caravan, in different circumstances I might have agreed that its reasonable 
to view the buy-back  value no differently  from a security  deposit  and, therefore, conclude 
Mrs S is fairly liable for the reduced value paid back to UKI on return  of the caravan. 
However, as I pointed out provisionally, UKI clearly had issues  with the report and concerns 
that the reduction hadnt been validated  and it knew  Mrs S shared those concerns. Yet it 
chose to accept  the reduction anyway. Furthermore,  UKI said the caravan company 
concluded the reduction based on the caravan having been delivered as new but its 
condition on return being like that of a five-year old caravan  (what  the report  said was that 
there were issues with the caravan  beyond normal wear and tear of a caravan that is less 
than one year old).  As I said provisionally  the initial buy-back value was likely suggested 
in line with normal expected use, whereas  UKI knew at the outset it was to be lived in 
full-time by a family with dogs. So Im not satisfied the bargain  UKI entered  into with the 
caravan company was based on a clear understanding of what  was expected  to occur.  
Having reviewed the buy-back issue, I remain of the view that its unreasonable to expect 
Mrs S, in this situation, to pick up any short-fall from what UKI thought  it might  be able to 
achieve. For the reasons set out here and as stated provisionally, Im satisfied that UKI 
must fairly and reasonably pay the £5,500  to Mrs S that it, to date, has withheld from her 
contents settlement.  To this figure it must add interest*  from the date the £25,337.60 
contents settlement  sum was paid to Mrs S, until settlement for the £5,500 is made.
Regarding the rocking horse  and other  damaged items, UKI said it would visit to assess the 
damage and ask Mrs S for estimates for restoration.  Mrs S said shed provided estimates. 
That all seems in order to me, it is quite reasonable that UKI would want view the horse  and 
damage, along with any other  items said to have been damaged  by its contractor.
There havent been any other  objections to my other findings or awards in respect of claimed 
for and damaged items.  
Mrs S felt the compensation award  was low. I understand  Mrs Ss view but Im satisfied that 
my award (total £2,000  but UKI has paid £1,000 already)  fairly reflects  the distress and 
inconvenience caused by UKIs failures. Im also satisfied that its in line with other awards  
made by this service  in similar circumstances.
Having considered the responses from both parties, they havent changed my findings as 
provisionally stated.  Those  findings, along  with my findings set out in this section, now form 
part of this, my final decision.
my decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs S £8,964.62, plus interest* from the date the final £25,337.60  of the contents 
settlement sum was paid to Mrs S, until settlement is made.
Pay Mrs S £5,500, plus interest* from the date the final £25,337.60 of the contents  
settlement sum was paid to Mrs S, until settlement is made.
If it hasnt been paid already, pay Mrs S £7.00 being the shortfall in the alternative 
accommodation council tax payment.
Ref: DRN271085110Restore, or pay Mrs S to restore,  the damaged, chipped paintwork  on the rocking  horse.
Assess  other items Mrs S says were  damaged by the removal  and recovery contractor, 
for damage caused  by it and where  such damage is found make  a fair, reasonable and 
appropriate settlement  in that respect.
Pay Mrs S a further £1,000 compensation, making total compensation paid of £2,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs S, it should 
tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2710851