K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains Pinnacle Insurance have  placed  an unfair exclusion on her pet insurance  
policy. 
background
Mrs S Post Office pet insurance  is provided by Pinnacle. Cover  is provided for Mrs S dog 
which Ill call K. 
K had been  receiving treatment from his vet for sometime.  And Mrs S had been submitting 
claims for that treatment.  Because Ks clinical records  showed  that K had tried to bite a vet in 
February 2017, Pinnacle decided to place an exclusion for third party  liability on the 
insurance from the next renewal (October  2018). Mrs S was notified of this in April 2018.
Mrs S complained as she doesnt believe K tried to bite the vet. She also provided  
information from Ks regular vet who said K wasnt an aggressive dog. Pinnacle stood by its 
decision to add an exclusion but said it would be willing to review  this if Mrs S provided a 
report from a suitably  qualified behaviourist.
Mrs S asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator concluded Pinnacle hadnt been 
unfair as it was generally for an insurer to decide  what risks it wanted to insure. And 
although Mrs S said the entry was an error no evidence had been  provided in support of 
that. 
Mrs S has asked  for matter  to be reviewed. In summary, she said:
It wasnt Ks usual vet that attended  him on that occasion. It was a locum vet and the 
entry on Ks records was an error;  she was in the room and K didnt try to bite the 
vet.
Mrs S has made numerous  claims for treatment since February 2017 but it was only 
in April 2018 that Pinnacle sought to exclude  third party liability. She considers it is 
only doing so as it is trying to get rid of her as a customer. 
She was initially sent a renewal in September 2018 which  included  third party liability. 
This was later rectified  and she was sent another renewal  in October  2018  which  
excluded third party liability. She believes she should be afforded the same 
opportunity to have  the error  rectified.  
She considers  her testimony evidence  of the error occurring.  
She would  like confirmation that if she obtains  a report, and it shows that K isnt an 
aggressive dog, that the exclusion will be removed.  
She questions if the removal  of that cover is legal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
As the investigator  has explained, it is for an insurer to decide what  risks it wants  to cover. 
That isnt something  we would generally  interfere with. But what I would consider is whether 
it reached that decision fairly. 
Ref: DRN20026962Ks clinical records show that he tried to bite the vet in February  2017.  I fully appreciate that 
Mrs S doesnt believe that happened. But I cant ignore that Ks attending vet has recorded 
that he did. This is contemporaneous  evidence from the time of the visit, which I consider 
carries more evidential weight than Mrs Ss recollections over a year later,  particularly as it 
was one of many visits. 
I do understand Mrs S disappointment this wasnt brought to her attention sooner, and 
Pinnacle has acknowledged it could have applied the exclusion sooner. Buts it hard to see 
how that has changed her position  she would still have needed to show,  what she needs to 
show now, that the entry was an error. 
And IN considering  whether the entry was an error,  Mrs S hasnt  provided  any persuasive 
evidence to support  her belief, such as an explanation from the attending vet. I have 
considered the information from Ks usual  vet that he isnt an aggressive dog, but his usual 
vet wasnt in that consultation and so doesnt  have  any knowledge  of what happened  during 
that visit. So whilst I understand Mrs S point about  Pinnacle being able to rectify its error 
when sending the renewals, she hasnt provided persuasive evidence that an error has 
actually occurred with Ks records. Had Mrs S been  able to provide persuasive evidence 
then I would expect  Pinnacle to fairly  take account  of that. 
The terms of Mrs Ss policy, in section 4, set out that:
6. In some circumstances, following a claim for Third Party Liability or an incident 
involving your pet which is relevant to that element of cover, it may be necessary to 
exclude your pet from part or all of the Third Party  Liability cover from your  next 
policy review.  If this should happen  we will advise you in writing and adjust your 
premium accordingly. 
Pinnacle has also provided an extract from its underwriting criteria that does show  an 
exclusion is applied in Ks circumstances. In all, Im not persuaded Pinnacle has been unfair 
when making its decision  on cover. I do acknowledge Mrs S feels  Pinnacle  is trying to get 
rid of her but it has added  an exclusion not declined cover  in its entirety. 
Mrs S would also like reassurances that the exclusion  will be withdrawn  if she does get a 
behaviourists report. But its impossible to give Mrs S that certainty; she hasnt had a report  
done, and no-one can known for certain  what the report  will say. All I can say is that if Mrs S 
decides to get the report done, then Pinnacle should  consider it, as it has already offered to 
do. I simply leave it to Mrs S to decide  whether or not she wants to get a report  done.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20026963
Ref: DRN2002696