K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Ms H says Northern  Bank Limited  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make Ms H aware  the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said when Ms H applied  for her card and 
PPI but Northern Bank has provided  a copy of the available paperwork. Ms Hs credit card 
application form isnt very clear but it appears  to have a section for PPI where  a selection 
has been made. Looking at the form I think its most likely the selection that was made was 
to take the policy.  With this in mind I think Northern Bank made  it clear  that Ms H didnt have 
to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Ms H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Ms H has told us she was working  less than 16 hours each week  so she wouldnt have 
been able to claim on the policy.  I have considered what Ms H has said about this but 
conflicting information about her employment  has been provided. Ms Hs credit  card 
application form also has a section for her salary at the time. The salary Ms H provided at 
the time suggests  she was working more  than 16 hours per week.  I havent seen enough to 
be able to say Ms H was working less than 16 hours each  week, so I am unable  to say she 
wouldnt have been able to benefit  from the policy.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Hs circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Ms H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms H about  that. Because  Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Ms H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN25466762Ive thought about everything Ms H has said, but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Ms H any extra  
interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms H the difference  
between what Ms H owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Ms H 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Ms H any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546676