K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr L and Mrs Q say Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading at the time as Woolwich,  mis-sold 
them this PPI.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Barclays throughout  this decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr L and 
Mrs Qs circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations and exclusions 
of cover) arent disputed. So I wont repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint and didnt think  we should uphold  it. 
Mr L and Mrs Qs representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr L and Mrs Qs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mr L and Mrs Qs complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive summarised my reasons  
below.
I think it was clear enough at the time of this sale, in 2009, that Mr L and Mrs Q didnt have 
to take out the PPI if they didnt want to. I say this because  I note they took out their original 
mortgage in 2005 and operated it for several  years  without any PPI. They took out PPI in 
2009 after apparently rearranging their borrowing requirements and its at this point, they 
were sold PPI, probably over the telephone. 
By definition  therefore,  I think  its reasonable for me to say that they must have known PPI 
was something they didnt  need  to have.  Thats  because they had a mortgage for some four 
years without any PPI attached. I also note that Mr L and Mrs Q set up their PPI coverage in 
a way which, in my experience, was somewhat unusual. For example, 83% of the policy  
benefit was apportioned towards Mr L, and 17% was apportioned  towards  Mrs Q. This 
Ref: DRN23942902means Mr Ls coverage was the greater of the two and so if hed needed  to claim for losing 
his job or being  unable  to work, he and Mrs Q would  have received more  money  from the 
policy to help pay their joint mortgage  repayments.
We do sometimes see PPI policies being split like this, but the way this particular policy  was 
set-up was reflective  of their incomes; I note Mr L was the higher earner.
 
Ive also been  provided with evidence  showing Mr L and Mrs Q were given a schedule  
outlining how much the cover was going to cost.  I also think  theyd have  been  given 
something explaining the policy rules  and Barclays sent me a copy  of what  they would have 
been given. 
So I think all these circumstances show that Mr L and Mrs Q knew the PPI cover  was 
optional, and they set it up in a way that reflected  their needs and circumstances of the time. 
I think they consented to the PPI, although I accept they may not remember all this now.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr L and Mrs Q as part of an advised sale. It therefore  
had a duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive considered this issue  with care and 
Im satisfied the evidence  about Mr L and Mrs Qs circumstances of the time, shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example,  Mr L and Mrs Q 
each appear to have  been  eligible for the PPI and neither had any sick pay with their 
respective jobs, or other apparent means to fall back on. So I think the PPI was suitable  and 
it being recommended  to them wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing about  Mr L and Mrs Qs occupation(s) which would have made  it 
difficult for either of them to make a successful claim on the policy in my view.  They  havent 
told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions that could  have affected  their ability  to 
claim and there were no additional restrictions on cover  for mental  health  or back  problems.
Its certainly possible the information Barclays gave  to Mr L and Mrs Q about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been. However, in my view, this doesnt alter my overall  decision.  I 
think they chose  to take the PPI out and it looks like they specifically wanted  this type of 
cover, with Mr L being covered to a greater degree than Mrs Q. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for them as Ive concluded above, nor was it too dissimilar to what  they 
reasonably thought they were buying  from the information they were  given at the point of 
sale. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them   so it seems  like it would have  been  
useful if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr L and Mrs Q would have 
declined the cover, even if Barclays had done  more  or explained things better.
Overall, I consider that Mr L and Mrs Q would have still taken out the PPI. The policy  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and I think the policy could 
have provided  a useful benefit  at a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think  that they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr L and Mrs Qs representative  has raised  a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN23942903But Mr L and Mrs Qs representative has not said clearly how these points apply to the 
specific facts and circumstances  of Mr L and Mrs Qs individual  complaint, just that they 
apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought carefully about all these things and how they might apply in Mr L and Mrs Qs 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L and Mrs Q, but this means Barclays Bank  UK PLC doesnt have 
to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr L and Mrs Qs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Mrs Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2394290