K820x#14The complaint
Miss R says Barclays  Bank Plc - trading at the time as The Woolwich  - (Barclays) mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
The PPI policy was taken  out alongside Miss Rs mortgage in 2001. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss R and Barclays agree the policy was arranged during  a meeting. Barclays had to 
ensure Miss R was made aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI. Miss R says it 
wasnt made clear the policy was optional. 
Barclays has provided a copy of Miss Rs mortgage  documents included a separate 
application for the PPI. The PPI application form asks applicants  to select the level of cover 
they require and involuntary unemployment  only cover has been selected on Miss Rs form. 
There is nothing to indicate the policy was compulsory. So, I think  some form of discussion 
about PPI took place.  
From what  we know about how Barclays sold these policies at the time, it usual made 
applicants aware  they had an option.  Nothing Miss R has said persuades  me that Barclays 
did anything different here. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Barclays made it clear to Miss R that she had a choice  
about the PPI and she  at the time - agreed  to it.
Barclays recommended  the policy to Miss R, so it had to make  sure the policy  was right for 
Miss Rs circumstances  at the time. I think that it was, and I say this because:
Miss R was eligible  for the policy.
She wouldnt have  been caught by any of the things the policy  didnt cover   like 
unusual employment  arrangements.  So, there was nothing to stop her claiming  the 
full benefit of the policy  if she needed  to. 
Miss R says she would have received good sick pay benefits  from her employer so 
didnt need the PPI. But the level of cover  she selected  was for unemployment only,  
so this point doesnt  mean the policy wasnt suitable  for her. Miss R hasnt mentioned 
Ref: DRN26446342what redundancy benefits she would  have received from her employer, but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any she might have received. 
The mortgage the policy covered was in Miss Rs sole name. And it was a significant  
and long-term commitment, which was secured against her home.  Given  the 
consequences of not keeping up her mortgage repayments, I think having the 
security that these could have  been made for 50 weeks if she lost her job would have  
been important  to her.
The policy seems to have been affordable and Miss R couldve cancelled  it at any 
time, without further cost, if her situation  changed or she no longer wanted to pay for 
it. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss R, Barclays shouldve also taken steps to 
give her clear information about  the policy, so she could decide if she wanted it. I dont know  
what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some  things werent  explained as 
clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clear information  would have  changed      
Miss Rs decision. I think she would have still bought if for the same  reasons I think the 
policy was suitable  for her.
Overall, I dont  think Miss R has lost out from anything  Barclays  mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2644634