K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss C says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss Cs credit card application  had a section for extra  features. It offered her the option  
to take or turn down  PPI. The option to take PPI was ticked  and the option to turn it down 
was left blank.  Miss C signed  the application  form to confirm her choices and wouldve 
returned it by post in her own time.  So I think that Capital  One made it clear Miss C didnt 
have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can understand if she might 
not remember doing so after so long.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. It did have to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide  if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And she didnt have 
any other protection or any work benefits beyond  the basic  statutory ones. Miss C may 
have had some savings, but I havent been given anything  which  makes me think  she 
had so much in savings that she didnt need  PPI. And the PPI meant Miss C could 
effectively protect  her savings instead of having  to use them  to pay her credit  card.  So 
the policy would have been  useful  for Miss C in case something went  wrong. And so 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking it out. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN22718462What the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss C any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
That means Capital  One should re-work the credit  card account and pay back to Miss C the 
difference between  what  she owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss C 
8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done that, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2271846