K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs N complain they were given poor advice to re-mortgage by an authorised
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G) in 2007.
Mr and Mrs N are represented  by a solicitor. For simplicity  Ill refer to all submissions as
though made by Mr and Mrs N.
background 
In 2005 L&G sold Mr and Mrs N a mortgage.  In April 2007, Mr and Mrs N went back to L&G
to discuss consolidating  their unsecured  debts.
L&G advised  them  to do this by redeeming their current mortgage  and re-mortgaging by
taking out a new loan, for a higher amount. The new loan was going  to be with
Mr and Mrs Ns existing lender. Mr and Mrs N followed  this advice. And in redeeming their
existing loan they incurred an early repayment  charge (ERC).
Mr and Mrs N later complained to L&G that theyd misadvised them on what was their best
option. They  said that a better option,  given that they were staying with the same lender,
would have been to apply  for a further  advance to cover the amount  they needed to
consolidate their unsecured borrowing.  Rather  than redeeming their existing mortgage and
taking out a whole new loan. In doing that, they could have avoided  paying the ERC.
L&G said their advice  had been  suitable.  They  explained that, at the time, Mr N had changed
jobs and was self-employed. Mr and Mrs N were  looking to pay off their unsecured debts
and repair  their credit file as some  of their creditors were looking to place a charge on their
property. So due to their poor credit history, the re-mortgage had to be with their existing
lender. And although a further  advance had been an option, the resulting higher repayments
wouldnt have been affordable without  extending  the term of their existing mortgage from 18
to 23 years.  And this was something the existing  lender wasnt prepared  to do.
L&G also said that Mr and Mrs N understood that by re-mortgaging  they would incur an
ERC. They had confirmed this in writing  and agreed  that they wished to proceed  with the
re-mortgage.
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy and complained to our service.
And despite the time which has elapsed since Mr and Mrs Ns 2007 re-mortgage,  L&G
consented to this service  looking at their complaint out of time.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and asked  L&G to elaborate  on why they didnt
recommend a further advance. L&G said that consolidating their debts and extending  the
term of their mortgage would have  reduced their monthly outgoings to a sustainable  level.
But that a further advance  wouldnt have  accommodated the term increase. So
Mr and Mrs N couldnt have afforded  to take out a further advance on their existing
mortgage. The investigator said this was a reasonable  explanation and it was clear that
Mr and Mrs N needed to take action to avoid  charges on their property. So she thought
L&Gs advice was suitable and the ERC  couldnt have been avoided.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree so the case has come to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN28834882I made  my provisional decision about the complaint on 2 October  2019.  In it I said:-
I dont think its enough for L&G to say that Mr and Mrs N clearly  knew about  the
consequences with the ERC if they re-mortgaged. As this was an advised mortgage  sale I
have to consider  whether the advice L&G gave Mr and Mrs N was suitable, regardless of
what Mr and Mrs N were happy  to agree to. As part of that I need to bear in mind their
individual needs and circumstances at the time.
Ive first considered whether the advice to consolidate Mr and Mrs Ns unsecured  debts was
suitable. Ive seen the client review  form completed  by L&G at the time of the re-mortgage
outlining Mr and Mrs Ns debts, income and expenditure. Mr and Mrs N had a high number
of unsecured debts,  with different lenders. Despite this, on the face of it, they had a
reasonable amount of disposable income each month. But its clear from the figures that this
was only because they were making a token £1 monthly payment on the majority of their
unsecured debts. I also note the total amount of the unsecured debts were almost  the same
amount as Mr and Mrs Ns annual net income.  So I dont think they had a realistic  prospect
of increasing their token  repayments. Given this, and the threat  of charging orders and
enforcement action, I think Mr and Mrs Ns situation  had become unsustainable  and they
needed to take immediate  action.
The solution  of consolidating their debts reduced  Mr and Mrs Ns disposable income  by
around £250 a month. But, this meant that their unsecured debts were fully settled. And they
were left with a single,  manageable monthly payment without the threat of charging orders
and debt enforcement. So overall  I think the advice L&G gave Mr and Mrs N to consolidate
their unsecured debts  was suitable.
As Ive said above,  I think that Mr and Mrs Ns situation had become unsustainable. So I
dont think they could have waited until the ERC  on their existing mortgage had expired
before taking action.  So there was nothing wrong  with the timing of the debt consolidation
either. But Ive gone  on to consider  whether they were advised on the most suitable avenue
for consolidation.
L&G have said that Mr and Mrs Ns best option was to stay with their existing lender given
their poor credit history.  This is supported by the notes in the mortgage record  of suitability
(MROS), which clearly refers to Mr and Mrs N indicating that they needed a lender that
accepted a poor credit history. And outlines  L&Gs advice, that under the circumstances,
other lenders were  unlikely to offer competitive terms.  Given  that credit history  is a factor
for lenders, I accept  what  L&G says about this and I think  their advice to stay with the same
lender was reasonable under the circumstances.
But what  is less clear  to me is why Mr and Mrs N were advised to take out a new loan with
the same  lender as opposed  to a further advance. The latter would  undeniably have been  a
better option as it would have avoided an ERC.
Ive considered L&Gs comments on this. In their final response letter they say Although
taking a further advance for the additional borrowing would have been an option, I do not
believe this option  was affordable to you. And To make this affordable you needed to
increase the term of the overall  loan to 23 years.
But the MROS contradicts  this by stating that Mr and Mrs N were able to afford the higher
loan amount on their existing mortgage term. In any event, I accept that extending the term
was nevertheless a sensible  aim because it would have meant  lower  monthly repayments.
Ref: DRN28834883That being  said,  theres no evidence to support L&Gs assertion that Mr and Mrs N wouldnt
have been able to get both the further  advance and the term extension without having to
re-mortgage. In fact, Mr and Mrs Ns new loan was for both the higher amount and the
longer mortgage  term of 23 years.  In short, they ended up in the same  situation, in terms of
loan amount and mortgage term, as they would have with a further  advance  and term
extension on their existing  mortgage.
So L&Gs explanation doesnt make sense because  if a combination  of the further advance
and term extension was unachievable with their existing  mortgage, then I think its likely that
the lender wouldnt have  offered the new loan on those same  terms either.  So L&Gs
position isnt something Im prepared to accept given all of the evidence  to the contrary.
For all of these reasons, and based  on the evidence I have, I think  L&G should have
recommended a further advance and term extension to Mr and Mrs N on their existing
mortgage. This would  have avoided them having  to pay the ERC of £4674.  The ERC was
added to Mr and Mrs Ns new mortgage.  So to put things right L&G need to repay
Mr and Mrs N the sum £4674 plus interest  at the rate of Mr and Mrs Ns re-mortgage,
namely 5.89%,  from the date their mortgage completed up until the fixed  rate ended.
And thereafter at the applicable rate up until the date of settlement, subject to
Mr and Mrs N providing L&G with evidence  of what the rate is.
Ive considered whether I should  also award  Mr and Mrs N compensation for any trouble and
upset they have been caused. Im not minded to do that because  it was Mr and Mrs Ns
choice to wait so long before complaining to L&G. Thats no criticism  of them  in any way and
they were fully entitled to make that choice. But I think their trouble and upset over the years
would have been greatly reduced if theyd complained  earlier. So I dont  think it would be fair
to ask L&G to compensate  Mr and Mrs N for that.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Since I made my provisional decision both Mr and Mrs N and L&G have indicated that they 
accept my decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition to both parties indicating they accept my provisional decision, Ive also reviewed 
the case and my findings. Having done  this I see no reason to change  my decision.
Ref: DRN28834884my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Legal & General  Partnership  Services Limited. And 
to put things right I require  them  to pay Mr and Mrs N the sum of £4674 plus interest from 
the date of the re-mortgage up until the date of settlement at the following rates:
i) 5.89% from the date the re-mortgage  completed  up until that rate expired.
ii) thereafter  at the applicable mortgage rate, subject  to Mr and Mrs N providing
    evidence  of that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2883488