K820x#14complaint
Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident  and U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled the 
claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.
background
Mr M and Miss Cs car was insured  by UKI. Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident  
while driving he navigated a sharp bend in a road and collided with another car coming the 
opposite way. Mr M says the other driver was encroaching  into his lane to such  an extent 
that he couldnt avoid a collision. The police attended the accident, and Mr M took post-
accident photos at the scene. He sent these to UKI when he reported  the accident.
Mr M and Miss C have complained that UKI settled the claim on a without prejudice 50/50 
split liability basis. They believe that, because  of where the other car was positioned on the 
road at the time of the accident,  the other  driver is fully liable.
Our adjudicator found UKI had acted reasonably. He said they were  entitled to settle the 
claim as they see fit, whether Mr M or Miss C agreed with this decision or not. He felt UKI 
had considered all the evidence and had made  their decision based on the policy terms. So 
he didnt think they should do anything more.
Mr M and Miss C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  Mr M believes the photos he provided 
show beyond doubt that the other  car was on the wrong side of the road when the accident 
happened, and that there  wasnt  enough room for him to pass. Hes said that, while the 
photos were taken after the accident, the other  cars airbags and immobiliser were deployed 
when the accident happened, so the car was in the same  position on the road after the 
accident happened as it had been at the time of the accident  the other car hadnt been 
moved so the photos accurately show where  it was at the time of the accident.
Mr M also said he took evasive action to avoid a collision, albeit unsuccessfully, which is why 
the damage is to the sides of both cars  his action had avoided a head  on crash and had 
meant the collision  was only a glancing blow. He feels UKI havent  fully considered this, or 
the fact that his photo (taken from a position between the middle and right-hand side of the 
road facing  the other car) is a true reflection of the other cars position. 
Instead he says UKI have  relied on the location  of the damage and a photo taken by the 
other driver (taken from the left-hand  side of the road facing the other  car) which gives a 
false impression of the other cars  position  on the road, to determine there was enough room 
for him to pass safely. This wasnt the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator,  and for broadly the same reasons.
My role is to consider whether UKI handled  the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It isnt 
to decide who was at fault for the accident. Decisions on responsibility are best dealt  with by 
the courts.
Ref: DRN21768782The terms of Mr M and Miss Cs car insurance  policy allowed UKI to conduct the claim and 
gave them full discretion to agree a settlement.  Because of this, UKI didnt need Mr M and/or 
Miss Cs agreement or approval  to agree a 50/50  split liability  (or any other decision) with the 
third-party insurer. But I would expect them to base any decision, on things such  as:
The versions of events provided  by Mr M and the third party.
Evidence provided to support or challenge the version of events.
Legal precedent,  legislation  and the Highway Code.
Mr M provided his version of events to UKI, and they received the other drivers version from 
their insurer.  Both Mr M and the other  driver supplied after-the-accident photos, but there 
werent any independent witnesses to the accident, there was no dashcam footage  from 
either car, and the stretch of road the accident took place on wasnt  covered by CCTV. And 
the other side didnt  accept liability  for causing  the accident.
UKIs case notes show they considered all of this evidence and the circumstances of the 
accident. They also got opinions from an engineer and their litigation department before  
agreeing to split liability.  
Ive seen the photographs  provided  by Mr M and I understand what hes saying about what  
these show. I also understand his point about  why he feels these prove  he wasnt  at fault for 
the accident. But, as Ive said, its not my role to determine liability.  If I dont think UKI have 
fully considered these  photographs I can tell them to look at them  again,  but I cant  tell them 
that the other driver  should be held fully liable for the accident. This is decision for UKI to 
make. And they must be confident they can support such a finding if it goes to court.
But I wont be telling UKI to reconsider their decision. Everything Ive seen shows me they 
considered the photographs and what Mr M said they show.  But UKI didnt just consider this, 
they looked at everything in the whole, and this included taking advice from their litigation 
department. This advice  was that the photos wouldnt be considered conclusive evidence, 
because they were taken  after the accident happened,  and there wasnt  a reasonable 
prospect of success if the matter of liability went to court.
So I cant say UKI acted unreasonably  in making  their decision, a decision the policy allowed 
them to make. So, while I know this will come as a disappointment  to Mr M and Miss C, I 
wont be asking UKI to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Cs complaint about  U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2176878