K820x#14complaint
This complaint has been brought by Ms C, who has Power of Attorney  for her mother, Mrs C. 
Ms T is unhappy about the home reversion plan Mrs C took out with Hodge  Life Assurance 
Company Limited  (referred  to here as Hodge) in 2001. 
background
In August  2000  Mrs C consulted a firm of independent financial advisers which  I will call 
H&W. They gave her advice about  taking out a home reversion plan. Further  advice was 
given by H&W in November 2000,  following which Mrs C applied for a home  reversion with 
Carlyle Life Assurance,  which later became known as Hodge.
The home reversion  was completed on 1 April 2001. It provided for Mrs C to receive a lump  
sum of £10,000 and an annuity. The annuity was £3,056.04 per annum (254.67 per month 
gross), payable by monthly instalments in advance  for five years  certain,  and thereafter for 
the lifetime of Mrs C. (Thus far, under the annuity  Hodge has paid out approximately   
£55,000 to Mrs C at £254.67 per month  gross from 1 April 2001 to date.)
In return for the lump  sum and annuity,  Mrs C transferred legal title to the property  to Hodge, 
and in return was granted  a 90 year lease  at a monthly rent of £1. Upon sale of the property, 
Mrs C (or her estate) will receive 30% of the equity and Hodge the remaining 70%.  
In 2018 Ms C complained to Hodge  about the home  reversion. In summary Ms T says:
Mrs C relied on her financial advisor  and solicitors,  neither of whom fully explained the 
implications of taking  out the home  reversion  plan;
the financial  adviser wasnt independent, but worked for Hodge;
Mrs C was recently  bereaved when she took out the plan in 2001 and so was vulnerable;
it was never made clear to Mrs C that the annuity was not index-linked.
Hodge didnt uphold the complaint, explaining  that it wasnt  responsible for the sale of the 
plan. Hodge also clarified that it didnt sell index-linked annuities. 
Ms C brought the complaint to us, where  it was considered  by an adjudicator. She didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. Ms C asked  for an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at the rules which  applied  to 
this type of product in 2001. Ive also looked  carefully at the original sale documentation.
I will begin by explaining  that home reversion plans were unregulated in 2000/2001;  they 
have only been  regulated  since 6 April 2007.  We can consider complaints about  some home 
reversion plans before  this date if the equity  release  money was used to purchase an 
annuity, which are investment products  and covered by our jurisdiction, if the advice  to take 
out the home reversion plan was in addition to the investment advice.
In Mrs Cs case, the advice to take out the mortgage and annuity was provided by H&W in 
November 2000  and the plan was completed  on 1 April 2001.
Ref: DRN23078972The Financial Ombudsman  Service did not come into existence  until 1 December 2001.  But 
in 2000 and 2001 both Hodge and H&W  were covered by the Personal Investment Authority 
Ombudsman Bureau (PIAOB). The PIAOB  was able to consider investment  complaints, but 
not mortgage complaints. Because there was an annuity purchased with the home reversion 
plan, this complaint  falls within the category of an investment and so is within the scope  of 
the PIAOB terms of reference. 
Despite what Ms C says, I can confirm that H&W was completely independent from Hodge. It was 
a separate regulated business  in its own right. I can find no connection  between  Hodge and H&W. 
The advice to take out the home reversion and annuity was given by H&W. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Hodge  was not responsible for giving any advice about it to 
Mrs C. I note Ms C has acknowledged that her mother relied  on H&W and her own solicitors  
to provide her with advice.
It was the responsibility  of H&W, not Hodge,  to ensure the advice provided to Mrs C was 
suitable for her. This includes assessing  whether or not an index-linked annuity was suitable  
and, if so, recommending one that fit her needs. As far as Hodge is concerned, I can only 
look at whether or not the product it provided is in accordance with the contract. 
Hodge provided the product for which Mrs C applied on the advice of H&W.  I will reiterate 
that Hodge isnt responsible for advising Mrs C to take out the annuity,  or the home  
reversion. The annuity has performed  as set out in the contract. And I think  it is clear from 
the documents provided in 2001 by Hodge  to Mrs C through her solicitors  and H&W how the 
home reversion works in relation to the equity share  of the property and the lease.
Given this, Im satisfied that the home reversion product and annuity which  Mrs C applied 
for, on the advice of H&W, has performed  in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the contract. This means that Im satisfied Hodge has done nothing wrong either in its 
provision or administration of the home  reversion  plan and annuity.
I am sorry  if Ms C feels that Mrs Cs financial adviser and solicitors  let her down  by not giving  
her suitable  advice about the home reversion and annuity. But, for the reasons Ive given 
above, Hodge isnt responsible for this. If Ms C wants  to complain that the advice Mrs C was 
given by H&W in 2000 was unsuitable, shell need  to raise this with H&W.
A search  of the Financial  Conduct Authority register shows that H&W still exists, albeit under 
a different name  from that it was using in 2000/2001. The register is in the public domain on 
the FCA website  and Ms C will be able to trade H&W from it, if she wants to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2307897