K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the delay in Target  Servicing  Limited  processing a letter  of 
consent for a deed of variation. Mr and Mrs W would  like the processing fee refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  a property with a leasehold  interest. They want  to vary the terms and 
needed the consent of the mortgage holders. Mr and Mrs W contacted Target  who 
administered the help to buy loan on 7 March 2018  to get its consent  and found they also 
had to pay a £50 fee which they paid. But by 11 May 2018 their solicitors hadnt  yet received 
the consent form. Mr and Mrs H then tried to contact Target  and made a complaint.
Target replied on 4 July 2018 to say that it had emailed Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor on 17 May 
2016 asking for a copy of the Deed  of Variation but hadnt yet received it. Target 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs W may have had difficulties getting through to it on the 
phone and offered  £25 as compensation.
Our investigator felt that Target was responsible for the initial delay of two months. She 
recommended that Target increase its compensation to £75 but didnt feel that it should  
repay the £50 administration fee. She also felt that although Target  had emailed Mr and Mrs 
Ws solicitor on 17 May 2018 and got no response that it should have chased the information 
required sooner.  Target disagreed saying that it was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs Ws 
solicitor to send the Deed  of Variation and it shouldnt have to pay the extra  £50. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20219792Target agrees  that it should have  responded quicker  when Mrs W sent in by email a 
Solicitors form and an incomplete consent  form on 7 March  2018. Target should then have 
asked for a draft Deed of Variation and a consent letter. That seems a fairly straightforward 
matter and Target says that it should  have  requested it on the same day the information was 
received from Mrs W. Indeed Mrs W was told that if she emailed the documents  in and they 
were uploaded to the account that it could be dealt with quicker, In fact this wasnt  attended  
to until over two months later and only after Mrs W made several efforts to get through  to 
Target and not always  successfully.
Although Target  accepted that it was at fault for the problems Mrs W had in getting  through, 
it didnt offer compensation for the delay  in dealing with the matter between  March and May. 
After May it asked for the Deed of Variation from Mrs Ws solicitor and whilst it might  
reasonably have enquired what was happening to it, I dont believe that it can be found  at 
fault for any delay after May and I agree with Target on that. 
But in March, Target gave Mrs W to understand that her documentation would be promptly 
dealt with and that wasnt the case. I have seen no reasonable explanation for this delay. 
Mr and Mrs W would have been understandably frustrated as a result.  So, I believe it is 
appropriate to increase  Mr and Mrs Ws compensation as suggested by our investigator to 
£75 in total. On that basis I uphold this complaint. As Target  in fact eventually  did what  
Mr and Mrs W asked  it to do, it should retain the administration fee of £50.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Target Servicing  Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs W £75 in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2021979