K822xcomplaint
The directors of M, a community interest company (CIC), complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
made errors in dealing  with Ms application  for a bank account. They say these led to project 
delays and additional costs.
background 
In January 2019, one of the directors of M applied in branch for a bank account for M. 
After the meeting, it emerged that the application  had some errors. Ms directors tried to 
correct these online but the banks  system  wouldnt accept them.  So the bank  told them to 
complete a second application online. On 29 March, HSBC said that its previous advice was 
incorrect and CICs could  only apply  for bank accounts in a branch. 
M complained to HSBC.  Two directors of M returned  to the branch on 2 April and another 
application was made. 
There were further delays before the account  was opened on 25 April 2019. The first debit 
card wasnt  sent out until 10 May 2019 and the second until 13 May. Online banking wasnt  
available until 10 May. The bank also lost the account mandate three times.  
M had been due to receive grant funding on 1 April 2019. This was delayed by the absence  
of a bank account to receive it. The directors say this resulted in M having to delay all its 
plans and purchases, incurring additional costs in rescheduling its plans. It said that as its 
funding was time limited  and couldnt  be extended, delays effectively threatened  Ms whole 
existence. And there was also an impact on its reputation,  as funding providers and 
contractors were concerned by the delays. 
HSBC upheld Ms complaint and apologised for its errors. It initially  paid compensation for 
the inconvenience caused of £200. Later, after M referred its complaint to our service,  the 
bank offered an additional £500.  
Ms directors  consider that the award  should be in excess  of £5000 to reflect the fact that the 
delays almost resulted  in M ceasing to be able to function. They also say it caused extreme 
stress to its chief executive,  who suffers from two chronic medical conditions.  
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May,  partially  upholding the complaint and provisionally 
awarding compensation of £1000 (an additional £300 above  the banks offer).  I made  the 
following points, in summary:
Ref: DRN27882702HSBC had accepted there were several  mistakes made in processing Ms application 
for a business bank  account. It accepted that it gave incorrect information to Ms 
directors on more than one occasion  and caused  delays.  It also accepted that it 
caused stress to the people involved in the process. 
I was satisfied that HSBCs internal notes were incorrect and there was no intention  
that one of the directors would inject personal funds. 
I therefore didnt  think M had failed  to mitigate  the detriment caused by HSBCs 
errors. Id seen no evidence that M had any alternative but to suffer  the delays and 
wait for the bank  account to be opened. 
I hadnt seen  sufficient evidence of a consequential loss to M. I accepted that in 
theory, such a loss might  exist, but that wasnt enough for me to direct HSBC  to pay 
these costs. 
I provisionally concluded that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require the bank to 
pay a consequential  loss claim without any supporting evidence. 
I was satisfied there had been considerable inconvenience to M. I thought  that 
increased compensation of £1000 for this was fair, given the severity of some  of the 
impact. 
HSBC replied to say it would accept my provisional decision. It reiterated that it had found no 
evidence of wrongdoing in its recording of the source of Ms funds. 
The directors of M didnt  agree.  They  asked  for extra time to submit further evidence of the 
consequential loss, to which I agreed. They have now provided extracts from Ms first year 
accounts to support Ms claim for additional  costs of £4,129, made up of: 
£4,050 relating to additional wages associated  with the many  days involved in: 
(a) complying  with HSBCs repeated directions to open the account  on-line; 
(b) attending a second meeting in Cardiff  on 2nd April 2019 at HSBCs  request;
(c) repeated and lengthy  correspondence and communications with HSBC  
throughout the period  from late January through to late May, including after the 
2nd April meeting. 
Telephone costs  and travel costs associated with the 2nd April meeting  (£79).  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have only slightly 
changed my provisional  view. I realise this will be a disappointment to the directors  of M, so 
Id like to explain why.  
HSBC has accepted it was at fault and also accepted the compensation I proposed  in my 
provisional decision. So all that remains for me is to consider Ms new evidence and reach a 
decision on its consequential loss claim.  
M has provided me with several extracts from its unaudited accounts for the period ended 
31 March 2020.  These  show  an entry under short term creditors  in the balance sheet for 
£4,129 for costs in respect of HSBC dispute. The director tells me that these items are also 
included in directors remuneration and administrative costs in the profit and loss account, 
although they arent separately itemised there.  
Ref: DRN27882703Ive thought very carefully about this accounting  item.  But Im not persuaded that the 
inclusion of this entry in the accounts  makes it a valid consequential loss for M. The problem 
is that Im not satisfied  that this entry hasnt  been created just to provide the evidence I 
sought. I think the liability is in effect contingent on me upholding the complaint. Im not 
persuaded that there is any realistic prospect of it being paid unless the claim succeeds.  And 
on that basis, I dont  think  it would be fair to direct HSBC to pay the claim.
One of the directors  has said that M owes this money to the people who had to undertake  all 
the additional work required to overcome HSBCs serial  incompetence and irresponsibility. 
But these  people are the directors themselves. 
I dont doubt that the chief executive  had to work  some extra hours  and would like to be paid 
for them. But for me to fairly award a consequential  loss, I think  it needs  to be a loss to the 
business without  the involvement of this service,  rather  than just a book entry in unaudited 
accounts. 
Although I havent  seen  actual invoices, I do think that M incurred some additional 
consequential travel  and telephone costs due to HSBCs  errors.  They  had to make  a second 
trip of some distance  to the bank, when I think that one visit should have been  sufficient  (and 
they havent claimed any costs for the first visit).  I think £79 is a realistic amount to cover 
these costs. So Im going to direct HSBC to cover  this sum, as well as the inconvenience 
payment. 
Neither side has disagreed with my proposed inconvenience award of £1,000  and I havent 
changed my view on this. I consider that M has suffered significant inconvenience because  if 
HSBCs actions (and inaction), including time spent on the phone and online, as well as the 
trouble caused  by reconfiguring Ms planned project work, to push it all back and condense it 
into less time. There was also reputational impact caused, as the directors needed  to 
reassure suppliers and funding providers that all was going ahead. 
I will repeat  at this point, that the directors are a separate  legal  entity from M. So I can only 
make an award in relation to the impact on M, not the undoubted stress that the directors,  
especially the chief executive, suffered. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay M £1,000 in 
compensation for the trouble caused, less the amount  of compensation already paid. HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should also pay a further  sum of £79 to cover  Ms losses from travel and phone  
costs. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the directors of M 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2788270