K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) refused to take 
payments after his previous complaint was closed resulting in further interest  accruing to his 
account.
background
Mr C opened an account with Very in September 2015.
In a previous complaint, Mr C was unhappy  about the terms of a Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL)  
promotion. This complaint was resolved and adjustments  were  made  to Mr Cs account.
Mr C is unhappy because  following resolution of his complaint Very hasnt accepted 
payment on the account and has continued to charge interest. Mr C says he was told that 
interest would  be frozen from the time he made  his initial complaint in October 2017.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest that 
Very had agreed not to apply interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. He 
also said there was no evidence that Very had refused to accept payments from Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree. He said Very had taken several  weeks to deal with his new complaint and 
that he had accrued interest as a result of the delay. He said he had tried to contact Very to 
discuss his account  and make payments but hadnt  received any calls back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I wont be looking again  at the merits of Mr Cs previous  complaint, Ive looked at the 
final response letter which was sent to Mr C in March 2018. Following this, BNPL interest  of 
£182.79 was refunded  to Mr Cs account and £15 was credited in respect  of a service 
complaint.
I can see that both of these sums were reflected on Mr Cs statement dated 14 April 2018. 
This statement also requested a minimum payment  of £40.71 by 4 May 2018.
On the same  statement theres a warning regarding BNPL  interest which says that estimated 
interest of £120.83 will be charged on BNPL items unless the outstanding cash price of 
£199.99 is paid by 4 May 2018.
Ive also looked  at Mr Cs statement  dated  12 May 2018. I can see that no payments were 
made towards either  the running account  or the BNPL account so interest of £16.13 was 
added to the running account and £109.45  to the BNPL account.  The statement also 
requested a payment of £87.37 by 1 June  2018. 
Looking at the statements I cant see that any payments have been made since March  2018.
Mr C says he was told by Very that interest  would be frozen on his account from October  
2017. Hes unhappy  because interest  has accrued on the account. Ive listened to the 
available call recordings  but I cant find anything to suggest that Mr C was told that interest 
Ref: DRN22286252would be frozen. Only in one call was the subject of interest mentioned and this was in the 
context of Very saying that it would freeze  interest  if it was found to have done  something 
wrong. In the event  Very determined that it hadnt  done anything wrong.
Mr Cs account is an interest bearing  account  and the terms and conditions  make it clear that 
interest will be applied to BNPL  items if the interest opt out cash  payment isnt received. Mr 
C had items  on BNPL which he didnt pay in full within the promotion period so Im unable  to 
say that Very has made an error  in charging interest.
I understand that Mr C feels that Very has been  obstructive about accepting payments  from 
him. I appreciate that Mr C hasnt always been able to get through  when hes called and 
hasnt always been able to discuss his account with the department hes wanted  to. 
However, the fact that his complaint was unresolved doesnt mean that Mr C wasnt obliged 
to make payments  on his account.
Mr C has said he made numerous attempts to pay but was unable to do so. Ive listened to 
the call recordings where Mr C was told that the lines were busy  or closed. Whilst I 
appreciate that this must have  been frustrating, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr 
C to call back another time or pay using another method i.e. online.
Taking all of the circumstances onto account, Im unable to conclude that Very agreed to 
freeze interest or made it difficult for Mr C to make payments  to his account. Therefore I 
wont be asking Very to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228625