K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the service  she received  from Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) in 
relation to her bank  account.
background
Miss B says she spent  more than two hours on a premium rate phone call to BoS to discuss 
her account  and she was on hold for most of that time. She also says the call time was 152 
minutes.
So, Miss B says she wants to be reimbursed  for her call costs  and compensated for the time 
she wasted on the call.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.  The adjudicator said BoS 
had no record of a phone  call with Miss B of the length shed complained  about.  And Miss B 
hadnt been able to provide an itemised phone bill. So, the adjudicator said he couldnt find 
any evidence BoS had made  an error and should reimburse Miss B for phone calls.   
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusions. So, the matter has been referred to me 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see BoS has upheld  previous complaints  Miss B has made about the time shes  spent on 
phone calls and it has paid her compensation. But I see in this case the only records of calls 
it could find during the relevant timeframe  were one call of 33:03  minutes  and another  of 
4:36 minutes, both of which were  recorded as being  on 16 November 2018.
I also see Miss B hasnt been able to give us a phone bill covering the relevant time, 
showing an itemised list of calls and their cost.
I have to make decisions on the balance of probabilities, in other  words,  on what is most 
likely to have happened, based on the available evidence.
Neither Miss B nor BoS has been  able to provide information confirming that a phone  call of 
more than two hours duration took place  between the parties at the relevant time. And, whilst 
I dont doubt that Miss B recollects a call of this duration taking place, I cant  conclude  thats  
what is most likely  to have happened, based on the available  evidence.
So, this means I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold  Miss Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint  against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Ref: DRN28055082Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2805508