K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about a claim she made on her Chubb European Group SE card 
protection policy.
Mrs W says Chubb have  treated her unfairly when declining to cover part of her claim.
background
Mrs W reported a claim to Chubb  regarding the loss of her handbag containing bank cards,
keys and a mobile  phone. She also asked if Chubb  would cover  replacement locks and keys 
for the property she was living  in, which she was renting.
Chubb said the policy didnt cover Mrs W for replacement locks and keys as the property 
wasnt owned by her but theyd consider her claim as a gesture of goodwill if she could 
provide written consent from the owner that they were happy for her to replace the locks. 
Later that day Mrs W called Chubb  back to say the locks to the property had been changed. 
Chubb said theyd  need written consent  from the owner for this before they were  prepared to 
consider paying  her anything.
Mrs W wasnt happy with this. She said the relationship with her landlord was acrimonious 
as theyd had several  disputes in the past. She later provided a letter  from her managing 
agent which authorised her replacing the keys for the communal front door of the building.  
The agent  commented that she didnt  need  consent  to replace the post box as that was 
owned by her. 
Chubb considered this but said the letter  didnt  amount to the property owners  consent  for 
the locks and keys to be changed by Mrs W. Thats because  the landlord  of her property was 
distinct from the managing agent, who managed the building. 
Mrs W remains unhappy with the outcome of her claim. She says shed made  a claim on the 
same policy for replacement locks in the past and it had been  paid. Our investigator 
considered Mrs Ws complaint and concluded  that it shouldnt be upheld.  As this was a 
rented property, Mrs W wasnt  capable of owning the locks  or keys, so she thought it was 
reasonable for Chubb to request the landlords consent for the locks to have been changed. 
Mrs W doesnt agree. Shes  said she told Chubb about the acrimonious relationship with her 
landlord and their continuing  requirement  for her to get consent from the landlord to change 
the locks made her feel threatened,  given their history.  Shes also provided a copy of a 
repair order form from the management  company which she feels supports that the locks are 
owned by her. Because Mrs W doesnt agree, the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mrs Ws 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They say You must notify us in advance  before you 
incur any costs you wish to claim for under this section and We will only cover keys and 
locks owned by you. 
Ref: DRN26495892Chubb have said that Mrs Ws claim isnt covered because she didnt notify them  of any 
costs she wanted  to claim for before she incurred them. Rather  she was advised  to obtain 
the property owners  consent to change the locks and come  back  to them.  Instead Mrs W 
went ahead  and had the locks changed.  Notwithstanding this, Chubb said they would still be 
prepared to consider  the claim if she could provide consent from the owner, who was her 
landlord, to the locks  being changed. 
Its right that the policy requires the locks to be owned by Mrs W, so Chubb  were entitled to 
decline the claim on the basis that the property was rented to Mrs W. Thats  because  the 
locks werent capable of being owned  by her. Theyre a fixture of the property, so would fall 
within the landlords ownership. They  were  also entitled to decline the claim on the basis that 
Mrs W didnt notify them  in advance  of incurring any costs. But instead of doing this Chubb 
said theyd be prepared  to cover the claim  if Mrs W could show her landlord consented to the 
locks being changed. This offer was made as a gesture of goodwill and not because  Chubb  
were obliged to cover  Mrs Ws claim.  That having  been said,  I think the course  of action they 
took was reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see that Chubb also contacted the landlord themselves with a view to confirming their 
agreement to changing the locks  so that they could resolve things, but they werent able to 
make contact, based on the details Mrs W gave  them.
I appreciate Mrs Ws position that a claim for locks  had been paid on the same policy before. 
Chubb say this was because they didnt know the property  was rented at the time. Rather 
they thought Mrs W owned it. In this present claim Mrs W told Chubb  the property was 
rented so they applied the relevant policy terms Ive quoted above accordingly.
I understand the difficulty Mrs W has faced in getting  consent,  given her relationship with the 
property owner. Im sorry to hear that things between them have been so difficult.  But I dont 
think the course of action  Chubb have taken  is unreasonable. They  didnt have to consider  
the claim because the locks and keys arent owned  by Mrs W. Instead they looked at the 
next best alternative which  was to obtain the owners consent to the locks being  replaced by 
Mrs W and they tried to do this directly without  having to involve Mrs W, but they couldnt 
make contact with the owner. And in doing  so they also set aside the requirement for being  
notified of the costs  to be incurred in advance.
Ive considered the repair order form from Mrs Ws management company which  she feels 
supports that the locks are owned  by her. The content of that form doesnt  actually  support  
thats the case. Rather it says:
THE FOLLOWING WORKS ARE THE TENANTS RESPONSIBILITY:
Tenants have a duty to use the premises in a tenant like manner - this includes:
 Locks
All that means  is that the its Mrs Ws responsibility  to use the premises in a tenant  like 
manner including  the use of the locks. And I wouldnt take that document  as indicative of 
ownership in any event.
Ref: DRN26495893my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Chubb European 
Group SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2021.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2649589