K822xcomplaint
Mr L and Mrs S complain that Dean  Finance, trading  as Braehead  Mortgages,  wont return  
money it owes them.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision  a copy of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint.
I invited Mr L and Mrs S and Braehead Mortgages  to let me have any more evidence  or 
arguments they wanted me to consider before finally determining  the complaint.
Through the family member representing  them, Mr L and Mrs S accepted  my provisional 
decision. Despite  reminders, Braehead  Mortgages did not reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disagreed with my provisional decision, so I find no reason  to change the 
conclusions I set out there.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  this complaint.  I order Dean Finance, trading as Braehead 
Mortgages, to pay Mr L and Mrs S £18,500.
If Mr L and Mrs S accept my final decision, Dean Finance, trading as Braehead  Mortgages,  
should make  full payment within four weeks of receipt of their acceptance. If it does not 
make payment within that timeframe, I require it to pay interest on my award at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the end of that four-week  period to the date it makes  payment.
If Mr L and Mrs S accept my final decision, it is binding  on Dean Finance, trading as 
Braehead Mortgages  so it must pay them the amount I order.  If it fails to make payment, 
my decision  can, under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, be enforced  in court.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24596942copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr L and Mrs S complain that Dean Finance, trading  as Braehead Mortgages, wont return  money  it 
owes them.
background
Mr L and Mrs S were buying  their first home. In 2017, they contacted Braehead Mortgages, a 
mortgage intermediary or broker,  for advice. They paid the broker a fee of £999 on 2 June 2017. They 
say they then made  an offer on a house, which was accepted.
Mr L and Mrs S say the broker asked them to send  it £20,000, because it needed this to prove  they 
had the money to go ahead with their planned purchase. Mr L made the following transfers:
-£15,000 on 12 June  2017;
-£4,000 on 27 June 2017.
No mortgage offer arrived, so Mr L and Mrs S couldnt go ahead with the purchase. They then found 
another house, and asked the broker for the money it was holding and which  they needed  for the 
deposit. They  say the broker made excuses and didnt return their money. They  had to borrow money 
from a family  member, on the basis  that the broker would  refund  the family  member directly. 
Mr L and Mrs S were able to complete  the house purchase in late 2017.  But they have been trying to 
get their money back  from the broker ever since. They say some of it has been returned, but the 
broker continues to make excuses and they still havent had most  of it back   so they got in touch with 
us.
Our investigator thought the broker should pay Mr L and Mrs S some compensation, as well as 
returning the money. The parties  all agreed that £2,000 would be fair, but the broker still didnt pay. 
The complaint has been referred to me to make a formal decision, so that Mr L and Mrs S can enforce 
my award in court if necessary.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
This is a very unusual set of circumstances.  There can be no good reason  for the broker to have told 
its clients to send the money for their deposit to it. It is not authorised by the regulator to hold client 
money and should not be doing so.
There is no dispute that events took place as Mr L and Mrs S have described. Ive seen copies of Mr 
Ls bank statements showing the payments he made to the broker,  as set out on the previous page,  
as well as an e-mail  from the broker dated 29 June  2017,  confirming it was holding £19,000 on Mr Ls 
behalf.
Mr L and Mrs S have provided copies  of text messages which appear to be from the broker, promising 
to repay the money.  They  have also provided  a copy of a cheque drawn on the brokers client account 
for £10,000, payable to the family member who lent them their deposit  money, dated 15 December  
2017. That cheque  was not paid, and is stamped not signed in line with mandate.
Besides all of that, the broker has told us it accepts it still owes most of the money in question, and 
has agreed to pay an additional £2,000 compensation. It has nevertheless repeatedly failed to make 
the payment.
Ref: DRN24596943Mr L and Mrs S paid the broker  a total of £19,999. £999 of that appears to have represented  the 
brokers fee. Given  that they received nothing for that money, I see no reason why they shouldnt get 
all of this back. 
Both parties accept  that the broker  has already  refunded  some of the money; both agree that a total 
of £6,650  has been returned. That leaves £13,349 still to be repaid.
I would usually  award simple interest at an annual  rate of 8% on the amount Mr L and Mrs S, or their 
family member, are out of pocket by. If they had been kept out of the full amount  of £19,999  for a 
year, for example,  interest at this rate would amount  to around £1,600.  But it isnt clear when the 
£6,650 was paid back to them, so it isnt possible to be precise about interest.  I therefore propose to 
award one amount to take account of the outstanding money, interest,  and the impact the brokers 
failings have  had on Mr L and Mrs S. 
I consider that the brokers failings in this case have had a substantial  impact on Mr L and Mrs S. 
They couldnt  buy the house they wanted, they and their family have been kept out of their money for 
a significant length of time,  and they have  repeatedly  suffered the disappointment  of not getting  their 
money back when they have been promised it is on its way. They have also explained  that the stress 
of this matter has affected their health, particularly Mrs Ss.
In the light of all of that, and in all the circumstances, I think  a total award of £18,500 is fair and 
reasonable. This represents the money the broker owes them, interest, and compensation  for their 
distress and upset. I can only make an award  to Mr L and Mrs S; it is for them  and their family to sort 
out payment of any money they owe one another once the broker makes payment.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any more evidence or arguments I receive by 26 February  2019  
is to uphold this complaint. I propose to order Dean Finance, trading as Braehead Mortgages, to pay 
Mr L and Mrs S £18,500.
If Mr L and Mrs S accept  my final decision,  Dean Finance, trading as Braehead Mortgages, should 
make full payment  within  four weeks of receipt of their acceptance. If it does not make payment within 
that timeframe,  I propose to require it to pay interest on my award at an annual  rate of 8% simple from 
the end of that four-week period to the date it makes  payment.
If Mr L and Mrs S accept  my final decision,  it is binding  on Dean Finance, trading as Braehead 
Mortgages  so it must pay them the amount I order. If it fails to make payment, my decision can, 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, be enforced in court.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2459694