K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 1999.  The policy was taken out at 
the same  time as Mr S applied for an Egg credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed  
to me. Mr S said he didnt  need PPI and the paperwork didnt show  that hed selected it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
 Mr S applied  on line for PPI. Ive seen a sample of the screen he wouldve 
completed to apply  for PPI. The options  to select or decline PPI were  set out with 
equal prominence.  Canada Square  Operations records  show  that Mr S selected 
the box to take out PPI. I think these records can reasonably  be relied  on. They 
were made before this complaint was contemplated and recorded the data as it 
was entered on each  screen. So, on balance, I think Canada  Square Operations 
made it clear to Mr S the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check 
if it was suitable  for him. But, it did have to give him enough clear and fair information  so 
that he could decide for himself if the PPI was right for him and he wanted  to buy it.
 I agree its possible the information  Canada  Square Operations  gave Mr S about 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Mr S chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover.  He wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions  or limitations  and the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve  made a different  
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think he would 
still have  taken out the policy.
Mr S said he wouldve got sick pay from work.  He couldnt  remember if he 
wouldve got up to six months worth  or up to 12 months worth at full pay. The 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits  for up to 12 months per 
successful claim,  allowing him to use his work  benefits to meet his other 
household expenses if he wasnt working.  It wouldve  also covered him for up to 
12 months per successful claim if he was made involuntarily unemployed. 
He said he also had mortgage PPI cover. But, this policy  protected  his credit  
card repayments, so I cant see that he had duplicate  cover.  
Ref: DRN23146802Mr S also said he wouldve got two times his salary if he died whilst still working 
for his employer. But, again  I cant  see that this provided him with the same 
cover as his PPI policy did. 
I cant see having these  other resources clearly  made the policy  inappropriate for him. And 
it was for Mr S to decide whether the policy was right for him, in his circumstances, as 
Canada Square  Operations didnt give him any advice about taking out the cover.  
It follows I dont  think Mr S has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
I dont uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2314680