K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains Insure  the Box Limited  (ITB) forced the cancellation of his motor insurance  
policy.
background
Mr E had a motor insurance  policy with ITB; this was renewed  in September 2018  and was 
due to expire in September 2019. On 2 April 2019, Mr E called ITB as he said hed sold his 
car to a friend 10 days before.  Mr E said he wanted the policy  to continue  as even though he 
wasnt the owner of the car he was going  to continue to drive it for his friend.
In the call Mr E was told as he was no longer  the owner or registered  keeper he couldnt  be 
covered by the policy. During the call Mr E was told he had 3 options:
to cancel the policy  which would mean hed lose his no claims bonus  for the current  
policy year;
to change ownership back  but would need to send the necessary documents; or
he could suspend the policy  this meant he continued to pay his insurance but a car 
wouldnt be covered  by the policy.  This would mean his no claims bonus would 
continue to accrue for the policy year. And once he had another car this could be 
added to it.
Mr E said ITB was pushing  him on the call to cancel  the policy when he wanted  to suspend 
it. He said the agent  had been argumentative and rude, and had promised to call him back  
about his policy but hadnt.
ITB said it had asked  Mr E to provide information, and had given  him time to respond.  When  
he didnt its underwriters cancelled his policy.
Mr E said he hadnt responded as hed been  away from home so didnt get the letter,  and 
was busy with exams. He also said ITB asked for documents he no longer had as he wasnt 
the owner of the car. And that hed wanted  to suspend his policy but ITB hadnt called him 
back.
ITB said it found no issues with the way Mr E had been dealt with in the call. And Mr E had 
said hed call ITB the day after the call and hadnt.
Mr E referred his complaint to us, as having  an enforced  cancellation noted against  him 
affected the premiums  hed need  to pay for motor insurance cover.
Our investigator said ITB had been reasonable in the time it had given Mr E to decide  which  
option he wanted. But said Mr E should be compensated  £50 for poor customer service as 
hed been told hed get a call back which didnt happen.
Both ITB and Mr E disagreed with our investigator. ITB said an apology  was sufficient as it 
was Mr E who hadnt called back as he said he would. Mr E said he couldnt provide the 
documents ITB wanted as he was no longer the owner and the enforced  cancellation of the 
policy would cause him financial hardship. They both want  an ombudsman  to make a 
decision.
I sent a provisional  decision  in September  2019  which said:
Ref: DRN26226682Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently thinking not 
to uphold this complaint.  And I dont think its fair for ITB to pay Mr E for poor service.  Ill 
explain why.
The cancellation of a policy can have a significant  impact on a policyholder  as policy  
cancellations are taken into account when  being offered insurance and calculating  future  
premiums. So I need  to determine whether ITB has been fair and reasonable in what it has 
done.
Mr E said he sold his car about 10 days before  he called ITB to tell it of this change. In the 
terms and conditions of his policy it says:
Cover will not be granted to any car which: has a registered keeper and legal owner 
other than the policyholder (or their spouse,  partner, parent or guardian)
And this is what Mr E was told when  he called on 2 April 2019. Ive listened  to the call and 
there is some confusion as to what has happened  and what  Mr E wanted to do. At one point, 
after being  told cover  could be done  for a partner, Mr E changed  his account and said hed 
sold his car not to a friend but to his partner . But Im not persuaded that this was correct as 
later in the call Mr E again referred  to the person hed sold the car to as his friend.
I do think ITB tried to understand  Mr Es needs  and did give him a number of options  to 
consider: cancellation, reversing  the change of ownership or suspension.  During the call
Mr E discussed all of the options, first saying he wanted to cancel, then that hed get his 
friend to change ownership  or get his own insurance cover and then asking for the cover to 
be suspended.  As Mr E changed his mind  and couldnt decide  he said he wanted the policy 
to be kept as it was. And that hed call back the next day.
At the end of the call there was agreement that the cover would be allowed to continue  for a 
week. And that ITB would  call him back at the end of that week to find out what  the situation 
was. I think it was also made clear to Mr E that if nothing had happened he would have to 
cancel his policy or change the registered  keeper. But if he wanted to suspend  his policy  he 
had to call ITB back to do it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Es policy do allow ITB to cancel his policy with at least 
seven days notice.
I can see that ITB sent a letter dated  5 April 2019  to Mr Es home  address. This letter  was 
headed Urgent  Attention Required. The letter said Mr E needed to provide information  in 
the form of the registration documents of the car to be covered by the policy.  And gave him 
until 14 April 2019 to do this, or his policy  would  be cancelled  on 15 April 2019. The wording  
for this part of the letter was in a bold font which I think made  this stand  out and clear as to 
what would  happen  if the documents werent sent.
It also made Mr E aware that if his policy was cancelled by ITB that it wouldnt be prepared 
to arrange any future  insurance for him. And that he would need  to tell any future  insurance  
provider that ITB had enforced the cancellation  of his policy.
Ref: DRN26226683On the same  day an email was sent to Mr E which contained the same information  as the 
letter. And a text message was sent to his mobile  phone. Again clearly  headed  Urgent 
immediate attention.  ITBs  records show the text message was delivered.
As Mr E didnt get back  in touch, ITB sent notification to him on 15 April 2019, by email, that 
it had cancelled his motor insurance  policy. It was only after Mr E got this email that he got in 
touch with ITB. Mr E said he couldnt  provide the information asked for as he was no longer 
the owner of the car.
But as outlined above I think the options available to Mr E were clearly explained to him in 
the call on 2 April 2019. And that he did consider all of his options; this included  changing  
ownership of the car back to himself.  So, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for ITB to ask for 
proof of registration of the car.
Mr E also said hed call back the next day if he decided to suspend the policy. But he didnt 
call back the next day, so his policy wasnt suspended. And I think it was also made clear 
that the situation couldnt continue as it was, so doing nothing wasnt an option for him.
I know Mr E was told he would get a call back and our investigator awarded £50 for poor 
service as he didnt get this call. But ITB tried several channels  of communication  with him 
during that week.  And I think it was made clear to Mr E, in the letter, email and text message 
that he needed to do something straight away and the implications to him if he didnt.
So, I dont think its fair to award Mr E £50 as I think ITB tried several ways to contact him 
before the end of the week.  And I think it gave him a reasonable amount of time to prevent 
the enforced cancellation from happening.
I can understand Mr Es frustration as the impact  of an enforced  cancellation means  his 
future premiums will be higher, but I cant hold ITB responsible for this. And I dont think ITB 
were unreasonable in cancelling  his policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
I havent had any further comments sent to me to consider by either Mr E or ITB
Ref: DRN26226684my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2622668