K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out in 1996 
when Mr S applied  for a Visa and MasterCard.  Mr S says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr S says that it wasnt made clear at any point  that the PPI was optional   and if hes 
known that it was he wouldnt have taken it out. Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr Ss 
dual card application  and I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional product 
and has been  selected with a tick. Mr S has then gone on to sign the application for both 
types of card, agreeing  to the information  on the application. So I think  Lloyds made  it 
clear that Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take out the policies  
although I can understand why he cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the policies - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ive also considered the commission that Mr S paid for his PPI  and whether Lloyds treated 
him unfairly.  But this only applies  to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or 
on agreements that were still running on 6 April 2008. 
From the information Ive seen Mr Ss Visa credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates,  so I 
dont think Lloyds has to refund  any of the commission  Mr S paid for the policy associated 
with this card. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI policy  it sold Mr S alongside his 
MasterCard because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN27900782To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes have  said about having  
good sick pay benefits from his employer, so he wouldnt have needed the cover.  But the 
PPI couldve paid out on top of Mr Ss sick pay  and for longer than he wouldve received 
full pay. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2790078