K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC wrongly recommended  that she invest in an 
excessively risky ISA-linked product contrary to her needs and circumstances.
background
Barclays said it had not given Mrs W any advice  and was therefore  not responsible for her 
decision to invest in the product. It said that the branch staff concerned were only able to 
offer its product range  and answer  any factual  queries about them. It said the documentation 
demonstrated this including  the fact that Mrs W had signed to say she was purchasing this 
ISA without advice.
An investigator at this service didnt  feel there  was sufficient evidence  to say that Barclays 
had given any advice,  and therefore  the complaint could not be upheld.
Mrs Ws representative did not agree, pointing out that she had no investment experience or 
knowledge and arguing that it was highly implausible that she would have chosen this 
product and this particular  fund with no understanding of its implications. Mrs W also insisted 
that the meeting lasted half an hour and she believed she was being given personal advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the reasons set out in their recent view.
Its important to state  in this case in particular  that my role is to decide  if there  is 
sufficient persuasive evidence to safely say that a business did something wrong (such as 
made an unsuitable recommendation).
Here, I simply dont  believe there  is sufficient evidence to fairly or reasonably reach  such a 
conclusion. 
I acknowledge that Barclays may have offered  advice  deliberately  or otherwise  and the 
fact that Mrs W signed to say she was taking this investment out without advice is not 
definitive proof that this statement accurately reflected what took place.  She may not, at the 
time, have  been  aware of the distinction  between simply receiving information about a 
product and being steered  towards choosing it, and felt she was being recommended this 
specific fund etc.
Further, while the staff member did not carry out a formal needs  assessment including a 
Fact Find, it is possible that they went beyond what is strictly  defined  as an execution-only 
sale. In which case whether they were qualified or charged with offering investment advice at 
the time is irrelevant.
But, on balance, I just dont think there  is sufficient evidence to come to such  a conclusion.  
Mrs Ws circumstances do suggest she may not have fully understood the risks of this 
product but unless  the evidence also clearly  indicates she was advised to take it out then 
Barclays is not responsible for its suitability.
Ref: DRN20341102I have considered all of Mrs Ws representatives arguments but I dont think  they tip the 
balance into safely concluding that this was an advised  sale.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2034110