K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr S complain  AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly  refused  their buildings  
insurance claim. 
background
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their AXA home insurance policy. Contractors 
were building an extension to their home. During the works a retaining wall collapsed.  
Mr and Mrs S wanted AXA to cover their losses. But it used a faulty  workmanship exclusion 
in their policy to refuse the claim.  
Mr and Mrs S say its not fair for AXA to apply that exclusion. They  are unhappy with the 
customer service  its provided. They say it should  cover the cost of putting right the damage,  
and other  costs they have incurred, including for alternative accommodation. They also want  
to be compensated  for unnecessary trouble and upset AXAs caused them.
Our investigator felt it was fair and reasonable for AXA to apply the exclusion. She didnt 
recommend it pay the claim  or any compensation. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that, so the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Mr and Mrs S have  an all-risks policy. So AXA has to cover loss or damage to their home - 
unless it can reasonably rely on an exclusion  or condition in the policy to refuse the claim.  
Its relied on a faulty workmanship  exclusion.  This says faulty workmanship, defective 
design or the use of defective  materials isnt covered. Having considered the relevant 
information, including the expert reports and Mr and Mrs S comments, I think  its fair and 
reasonable for AXA to do so. So Im not making it pay the claim.  
AXAs engineer  says the main cause of the retaining wall collapsing was excavations.  These 
were made as part of the preparation works for the extension. The engineer says the 
excavations appeared to have significantly reduced the walls ability  to accommodate  stress. 
He felt a collapse  was probably inevitable.  He questioned the method  or working,  temporary 
support design  and workmanship  that were carried out. 
Mr and Mrs S provided their own report from an engineer. He also says the cause was the 
excavations. He included the removal of a projecting  foundation as another factor.  He said 
the structural engineer,  for the building  works,  had failed to consider the risk of the works 
undermining the retaining wall foundations. He said because of this he had failed  to provide 
measures to mitigate the risk.
So both engineers felt the workmanship had been  at fault.  I cant say whose fault it was. It 
seems it could have been  the contractors for not following the structural  engineers support 
design. Or it may have  been due to the engineer providing an inadequate support design. 
But that doesnt make a difference  - as its reasonable to consider either as faulty 
workmanship.   
Ref: DRN23030102Mr and Mrs S say the exclusion is unclear and ambiguous so cant be fairly  applied. They 
say this for a few different  reasons.  I havent responded directly in this decision to every  
point they have made. But Ive considered everything they have said. Having done so, I dont  
agree the exclusion  is unclear or ambiguous. So its reasonable  for AXA to apply it. 
One of the reasons given  by Mr and Mrs S is that the exclusion is only intended  to apply to 
work carried out by the policyholders  and not by any contractors or other third parties. 
Theres nothing that makes me think it was intended to have such a narrow application. It 
doesnt, for example, include you (the policyholders) like a number of other exclusions in 
the policy.
 
The term faulty workmanship is used in other exclusions in the policy.  But I dont agree that 
makes the relevant exclusion ambiguous  or unclear. The exclusion, including  faulty 
workmanship, isnt defined by the policy. Mr and Mrs S have explained  why they think that 
makes it ambiguous. But I dont agree a lack of definition makes it unreasonable  for AXA to 
apply it to this claim. An ordinary  or everyday meaning can be used. Either  the contractors 
or structural engineers  work was faulty   it wasnt done to the required level of skill.   
Mr and Mrs S say they should  have been told about  the exclusion when they informed AXA 
the building  work was to take place.  But I dont agree it needed to do that. The exclusion is a 
general one that always  applied to the policy. It wasnt a special term or endorsement added  
because of the building works. It, or something  similar, is common  in buildings  insurance 
policies. 
So AXAs decision  that the cause of the loss was faulty workmanship is reasonable. And its 
decision to rely on the exclusion to refuse the claim was fair. 
 
After the wall collapsed  Mr and Mrs S had to move to different accommodation for a period. 
They say AXA should cover the costs  under the alternative accommodation part of their 
cover. But the policy terms  only cover  those costs if they had to leave the property as a 
result of loss or damage insured under the policy. Its fair of AXA to exclude  the loss, so it 
isnt insured under the policy. So Im not making  AXA cover the accommodation costs. 
     
AXA were  very quick to deny liability according  to Mr and Mrs S. They feel it didnt attempt to 
obtain the actual facts  of what happened. It seems AXA told them it was refusing the claim 
about a month after the claim was made. That was after its engineer had inspected the site 
and provided his report. AXA then made  a decision  that was fair and reasonable. So I dont 
think it did anything wrong by making its decision  when it did. 
Mr S says AXA treated  him unfairly  by not explaining clearly why it was refusing his claim. 
But I can see that this was explained to him in emails, over the phone  and in AXAs  final 
response letter. He says AXA didnt respond to his questions about  the claim.  I dont know if 
it responded to every  question asked. But looking at AXAs  contact notes I can see it 
provided a reasonable response to his phone calls and emails. So I cant say it treated him 
unfairly in that regard.
Mr and Mrs S have  referred to the insurance regulators requirements  for firms  to treat 
customers fairly. I havent referred  to those principals directly throughout this decision.  But I 
have taken them into consideration when  deciding on this complaint.  
I recognise this has been a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs S. The wall collapsing has 
caused them  a significant amount of trouble and upset. But I can only make  AXA 
Ref: DRN23030103compensate them for any unnecessary,  and additional, trouble and upset it caused. It hasnt, 
in my view,  caused enough of that for me to say it should compensate Mr and Mrs S.         
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making AXA Insurance  UK Plc pay Mr and Mrs S claim 
or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2303010