K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments  in 2001. The policy  
was in Mr Js sole name.  It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover and they 
paid a monthly amount for it. Nationwide cant confirm  how the policy  was sold,  but Mr and 
Mrs J recall it was during a meeting in a Nationwide branch and Ive reviewed the sale on 
that basis.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr and Mrs Js complaint  should  be upheld.  Nationwide  didnt 
agree so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities   in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in the light of the evidence.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to provide  Mr and Mrs J with information about the policy  that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so they could make  an informed decision about whether or not to buy it.
I cant know what was said in the meeting or exactly when it took place, as there are no 
records of it. So I dont  know what Mr J knew about  his employment situation  at that time, or 
what if anything he told Nationwide about  it. But based on what Ive read and been  told, I 
dont think the information Nationwide gave  Mr and Mrs J about the unemployment 
exclusions and limitations was as clear  as it should  have been.  I say this because  the PPI 
section of the sample mortgage application form Nationwide that has submitted, and that it 
says Mr and Mrs J would have completed,  didnt mention the relevant  limitations  of the 
policy. Whilst it asked for a signature to confirm Nationwide  had provided enough information  
on the type and level of cover it didnt refer to the policy exclusions at all. 
Nationwide argues these were  made  clear in the leaflet Mr and Mrs J would have been 
given, but this was amongst lots of other  information and I cant  see they were highlighted or 
made prominent in any way. And I cant know when they were given the leaflet,  if in fact they 
were. It also says the exclusions were contained within the policy document, but this was 
only sent to them after the sale so would  not make up for any failings  at the time of the sale. 
Plus, again,  the exclusions were set out amongst a lot of other dense information. So I dont 
think that Nationwide has shown that it presented the exclusions to Mr and Mrs J in a clear  
and fair way.
Nationwide argues that as it didnt recommend the cover the onus was on Mr and Mrs J to 
make sure they understood the exclusions,  particularly as it feels its likely Mr J didnt raise 
Ref: DRN26176062his employment  situation. But I dont agree. It had an obligation to make sure Mr and Mrs J 
were given all the information  they needed in a clear and fair manner so they could make an 
informed decision.  And for the reasons set out above I dont think  its shown it did this. 
This mattered to Mr and Mrs J because Mr J was on notice of redundancy at the time the 
policy started. So he wouldnt have been  able to make a related claim as the policy  that 
Nationwide has told us they took out excluded any period of unemployment during the first 
year of cover if the unemployment is known to be impending at the date cover commences. 
He also wouldnt have  been covered in the way he most likely  expected  for his next job as 
the policy also excluded  any period  of unemployment during the first year of  cover  if it is not 
immediately preceded by at least  six months  continuous employment.  
Nationwide suggests  Mr and Mrs J knew they couldnt claim for the impending redundancy, 
and to support  this says it has no record of an attempted claim. It argues that when Mr J 
applied for the cover  he did so having  made it his business to find out how the cover would 
be affected by him being out of work.  Ive thought  carefully about everything Nationwide  has 
said. But I cant find any evidence to support its assertion  and to the contrary Mr and 
Mrs J told us the PPI was to be used  in the event  of a loss of employment, or any long-term 
illness  they had a young family  and wanted  to ensure the mortgage would get paid.  
But even if I had found supporting evidence, I just need to decide whether its likely 
Nationwide met its obligation  to provide enough  information at the right time  not whether 
Mr J had himself  investigated the unemployment terms and conditions. As Ive said above I 
dont think it did.  I dont  think  it was clear to Mr and Mrs J when they took out the PPI how 
limited the unemployment cover  would be for Mr J, in his particular circumstances. On 
balance, had Mr and Mrs J been  better  informed I think its likely they wouldnt have taken  
that policy out.
It follows that I think Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of the problems with this sale.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. I understand the policy has already been  cancelled, so Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  If applicable, it can also 
deduct any commission already  refunded.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide
must give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Nationwide Building Society must pay 
them compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Ref: DRN26176063Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2617606