K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls unhappy with the valuation Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has made of his van 
in a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ls van was stolen  from a car park. Admiral  said it would pay £9,337.20 for it less the 
policy excess. Mr L is unhappy with this and says it doesnt represent  the vans true value. 
He says he bought it five months before it was stolen for £11,140. It was in immaculate 
condition and had a full service history. Although recognising vehicles do depreciate in value 
he doesnt agree it would be worth  £1,806 less after just five months.
Admiral said in its final response that the purpose  of the policy  was to indemnify Mr L and 
put him back  in the same  position he wouldve been in before the theft. It had done that. Its 
valuation was based on the trade guide  prices  and was fair.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
In relation to vehicle  valuation, Mr Ls policy says it will pay the cost of replacing the 
vehicle with one of a similar  make, model, year, mileage and condition  based on 
market prices at the time of the loss. So, the measure  of Mr Ls loss is the market 
value of the van when it was stolen  not when it was bought.
We dont provide an exact valuation of a vehicle. We consider if Admirals  offer is 
reasonable. And we base this on the valuations shown in the main motor  trade  
guides which are based on the value of second hand vehicles.
Hes obtained three separate valuations from the guides  for a similar vehicle in good 
condition and is satisfied that Admirals offer is in line with them and is actually  at the 
top end in terms of value.
Admiral has acted  fairly and he will not be asking it to do any more.
Mr L doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary  he doesnt think  
this is fair as hes been left with a large  sum to pay off a finance  agreement.  His tools  were 
also stolen and his livelihood is gone.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy says Admiral  will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his van at 
the time of the theft. That sum isnt necessarily  the same amount that he bought the van for 
or the cost to him of actually replacing  it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Ref: DRN22295952Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
Admirals offer. 
In this case Admirals valuation of £9,337.20 is the higher of the two valuations it obtained. 
And its in line with the valuations the adjudicator obtained from three guides. These all take 
into account the vans good  condition  and mileage.
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr Ls frustration and sympathise with 
the situation he found himself in, I dont think I can reasonably require Admiral to increase its 
valuation or pay any more as hed like.
Overall I think  Admirals  acted fairly  and reasonably  and in line with the policys  terms and 
conditions. And I dont see any compelling  reason  to change the proposed  outcome  in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2229595