K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied  with finance from 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and to 
require Startline to arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mrs W or (if the cost of 
repairing the car was disproportionate) to allow Mrs W to reject the car.
I invited Mrs W and Startline to let me have  any further evidence or arguments they wanted 
to make before I finally determined the matter.
Mrs W said she agreed with my provisional decision. 
Startline said it had nothing new to add but asked me to take into account the fact that 
Mrs W had allowed a third party to dismantle the car. It also said that the supplying  dealer 
hadnt been given the opportunity to inspect the car and were not prepared to carry out any 
work on the car as a result.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of what  Startline has said but these are points which have been made 
before and which Ive already addressed in my provisional decision. I havent  seen any new 
information which has persuaded  me to change  my view. So I see no reason to reach 
different conclusions from the ones I set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  this complaint.  Startline  Motor Finance Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at a garage of Mrs Ws choice and at no cost to 
Mrs W.
Alternatively, if the cost of repairs is uneconomical, Startline must allow Mrs W to 
reject the car with nothing further to pay
In either  case,  return any payments made by Mrs W since  September  2018 and 
waive any payments she hasnt paid since September 2018
Remove any adverse  credit information applied from September 2018
Pay compensation of £200
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Ref: DRN25572502Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557250