K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS),  trading as Audi Finance, was misrepresented  to him.
background
Mr B took receipt of a new car in March 2015.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. He says he was told by the dealership that if he part exchanged  the 
vehicle at the end of the agreement he would not have to pay for excess mileage. So he took 
out an agreement  with a 5,000  mile annual limit even though  he was expecting  to complete a 
higher mileage and had done so in the past. He subsequently tried to part exchange but was 
told that there was negative equity as the mileage hed completed  had reduced the cars 
value. He therefore complained to VWFS as he thought the finance had been mis-sold to 
him.
VWFS didnt  uphold his complaint so he referred it to this service and our adjudicator 
provided an opinion.
He noted that Mr B had explained there was a guaranteed future  value of a little over 
£21,000 on the agreement but he didnt think the agreement referred to a guaranteed future 
value. He thought the figure  on the agreement was the one Mr B would have to pay if he 
wanted to take ownership of the car when the agreement terminated. He understood that 
Mr B had a finance agreement for his previous vehicle with a higher mileage limit but he 
wasnt persuaded this meant VWFS had done  anything wrong. He explained an agreement  
with a higher mileage  limit would have necessitated a higher  monthly  payment. So he didnt 
think VWFS needed to take any further  action.
But Mr B disagreed with the adjudicator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN29934192The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the finance  agreement should not have 
been misrepresented  to Mr B. So if Mr B was told something  that led him to enter into an 
agreement that he would  not otherwise have entered into. Id think VWFS were responsible 
and Id ask them to take some further  action.
Im not persuaded thats been the case here however. 
Whilst I understand Mr Bs assertion that he was told the excess mileage charge would not 
come into play if he part exchanged the car. I note that the dealership  havent  corroborated  
that. Mr B isnt disputing  that he agreed to a lower mileage limit: hes saying that he thought 
by doing so he would have to pay lower monthly instalments on his agreement  but wouldnt 
be penalised  for exceeding  the mileage limit.
I think the only instance in which the mileage allowance would be irrelevant is if Mr B chose 
to take ownership  of the car at the end of the finance arrangement and to make the final  
payment. That may have been what the dealership were referring to but I have no way of 
knowing.
In other  scenarios  the mileage allowance is relevant  as it forms one of the foundations upon 
which the amount  to be financed is calculated. A car with higher mileage at the end of the 
contract is worth less, so there will have been  more depreciation and the amount to be 
financed will need to be higher.
Im not persuaded theres sufficient information  here to suggest  Mr B was told hed not have 
to consider the excess mileage if he part exchanged  the car and I dont  think  the finance 
agreement suggests  thats the case either.  I think the agreement is clear enough for Mr B to 
have been able to make an informed decision about  what would happen when he handed 
the car back. So Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2993419