K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook  Bank  Limited  unfairly refused his claim brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).  He wants a refund  of the payments 
made under a regulated  finance agreement in respect of an insulation  product.
background
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a claims company Ill call H. For ease of reading 
Ill mostly refer to H when  explaining the details and information which have been supplied  
on behalf of Mr W.
H told us that Mr W was cold canvassed by a sales person  from a company Ill refer to as 
L. It said he was sold a spray foam insulation product which  he neither needed nor 
requested. H states the product was misrepresented. H further complains that Mr W was 
coerced into signing  the credit  agreement to pay for the product and that no affordability 
assessment was undertaken. And that the product was installed within the cooling off 
period.
Shawbrook said that thered been no misrepresentation. And no promises had been made 
by L within its documentation about the product. And it pointed  out that Mr W had informed L 
in a phone  call that he was happy with the product. It said an affordability  check had been 
carried out and Mr W had passed that check. It said it was unable to agree that the product 
was mis-sold or misrepresented.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
insufficient evidence  to show any misrepresentation had occurred. Nor that any promises  of 
savings (on heating  costs)  were  made.  And he hadnt seen any information to show Mr W 
was struggling financially  and unable to make  repayments.
On behalf of Mr W, H didnt accept this outcome. And it said the evidence  it had presented  
had been largely ignored. As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the course of this complaint H has made submissions on behalf of Mr W in relation to 
several matters about which it finds fault with the conduct of both L and Shawbrook. Ill try to 
deal with each  of these issues. But if I dont make  separate reference to an individual point 
its not I havent taken  it on board its that I dont consider it necessary to refer to it separately  
in order to reach my decision.
There are several specific items  of complaint, but little in the way of what I consider to be 
plausible information  to support the allegations  has been provided.  I want to make it clear 
that this service is not able (or indeed required) to conduct an investigation in the same  
manner as, for example, the police might. Were  an informal resolution service  not a 
consumer rights organisation. And where  a party makes a complaint its reasonable to 
expect it to supply  relevant  information  in support of it.
Ref: DRN29395232Reference has also been made to the law and how H feels it should  be applied  to these 
circumstances. I dont  apply the law - directly  - but I do take it into account. Relevant law 
here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015  as well as the CCA.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer into entering  into 
an agreement and suffering a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. And a breach of 
contract might also occur if the items  supplied  werent as described.
Its worth  making clear  that Im not determining Shawbrooks liability under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve  the complaint but I 
dont have to reach  the same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a 
claim through them for breach  of contract  or misrepresentation.
For obvious reasons  I wasnt present during verbal  negotiations about the product. And so 
Ive to rely on a combination of the documentary information, telephone recordings,  and 
testimony the parties have provided.
Where information is incomplete, unclear, or facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Going back to the beginning, Ill look at the circumstances which led to the regulated finance 
agreement being  signed by Mr W. Ive been told that he was cold canvassed and later 
visited at home by Ls sales person. I infer from this that Mr W must have agreed to the later 
visit at his home address. Whilst its been suggested  the product was not needed and/or not 
requested its implausible to suggest  he didnt display some interest. Otherwise there 
wouldve been nothing  to prevent Mr W from declining further contact.  
Its been suggested that Mr W was subjected to coercion prior to taking out the agreement.  
Theres no independent information available to support this contention. And other  than what 
Mr W has told H Ive seen nothing to show this was the case. Its not unusual for some  
consumers to express feelings that a sales person had been highly persuasive. But thats  a 
far cry from coercion and no credible information  to show  Mr W was particularly vulnerable 
or couldnt exercise freedom of choice has been presented. I find theres insufficient 
information to support  the allegation. And on a balance of probabilities  I find Mr W entered 
the regulated  agreement  out of his own choice.
Dealing with allegations  of misrepresentation of the product. Ive seen the sales literature 
and Ive been given information  regarding comments made  by some Trading Standards 
Officers. Our investigator correctly stated that we look at each case  on its individual merits. 
And so reference  to whats previously been  said in other circumstances about this and 
similar products  is not helpful or indeed relevant to this complaint. Because  a product may 
not have been suitable in some instances where it was sold doesnt mean its unsuitable  in 
all circumstances.  And Ive seen no information which  persuades me that the product was 
misrepresented. Ive not been supplied with any independent report to show  the product 
wasnt suitable for Mr W nor that it wasnt properly  installed. Additionally, no utility bills have 
been supplied  to show if, or by how much, Mr Ws heating costs have altered.
Ref: DRN29395233Ill turn now to other areas  of complaint.  Shawbrook  has provided information  to show an 
affordability check was carried out. It seems  Mr W supplied details of his income and current  
credit commitments.  And that this was sufficient to satisfy Shawbrook he could  pay the 
instalments of just over £40 per month. Contrary to what  H has submitted, the way this 
service assesses affordability is a two stage process. It involves determining if adequate 
checks were made prior to the granting of the loan. And also the question of whether the 
loan was actually  affordable. I find the checks here were  adequate and proportionate. Ive 
not been supplied with any documentary  information (such as bank statements)  to show 
Mr W hasnt been able to afford repayments.  Again theres insufficient  plausible information 
to show the loan was unaffordable.
Installation work commenced within the 14 day cooling off period. Its a reasonable inference 
that - as the works were  within  Mr Ws property - he must have given permission for these to 
have started. Details of the cooling off period were contained within the standard  pre-
contract material. And its open to a consumer to request services  are provided within that 
time. This didnt prevent  Mr W from cancelling the contract - it simply meant he wouldve 
been liable  to pay for the proportion of works  carried out prior to cancellation. But this didnt 
arise and Mr W didnt  seek to terminate the agreement within the cooling off period. Indeed 
sometime after the installation he expressed his satisfaction at the product in a telephone 
call with L. 
I dont afford  this latter point any meaningful weight. Consumers are often  asked to take part 
in a satisfaction survey. And its often tempting to give a perfunctory  indication of satisfaction  
simply to bring the survey call to an end. I also noted that during  the call there appeared to 
be an inducement  offered  to give the highest  rating.  This also dissuades me from me 
attaching any significance to the call.
Ls product literature  contains a British Board  Agrement (BBA) logo which H has claimed it 
(L) was not entitled to use. L was an approved  BBA installer for pitched roof insulation in 
2018. H has not supplied information which contradicts this. Nor has it showed that Mr W 
was influenced  in any way by this aspect.
For completeness Ive also considered various comments made by H as to the suitability of L 
to hold FCA approval to act as a credit broker. As well as comments it made about 
individuals previously  associated with L. This service is not the industry regulator and so its 
not for me to comment on which companies are (or are not) FCA approved. Nor is it 
appropriate to comment upon individuals who are not party to this complaint.
In summary,  I find Shawbrook has dealt with the complaint fairly. Its decision that there was 
insufficient information to show that any misrepresentation or breach of contract occurred 
was based on reasonable grounds. It conducted  affordability checks that were adequate and 
proportionate to the credit being offered. And no information to show  the loan was in fact 
unaffordable has been  supplied. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN29395234Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939523