K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have  declined  their travel  
insurance claim.  
background 
Mr and Mrs S have  travel insurance through  a packaged bank account.  Their  policy  is 
underwritten by IPA, and any reference to IPA within this decision will include their 
representatives and/or agents too.
Mr and Mrs S were  due to go on holiday, but the day before travelling learned that Mr Ss 
late mother in law had been  admitted  into hospital  and would require 24 hour care upon her 
discharge. Mr and Mrs S cancelled their holiday to provide that care.  But when they 
submitted a cancellation claim under  their travel insurance policy,  IPA declined it.
IPA said the information thatd been provided  suggested that Mr Ss late mother in law had 
been taken into hospital on several occasions  prior to the holiday being booked  something 
which meant their claim might not be valid. IPA said theyd asked Mr and Mrs S to 
substantiate the events surrounding the hospital admission which had to the cancellation,  by 
providing a medical  certificate. But that Mr and Mrs S had failed to provide one despite 
repeated requests. So IPA declined their claim. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with IPAs  position and said IPA had told them a medical certificate  
wouldnt be needed. IPA said they should have been clearer about the need for a medical  
certificate and agreed to pay £75 compensation to recognise that. But they said the decision 
to decline the claim  stood, and a medical certificate  would  need to be provided if 
Mr and Mrs S wanted IPA to review  their decision. So, Mr and Mrs S brought  their concerns 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think that IPA had sufficiently  addressed all of Mr and Mrs S concerns 
when they approached us; because IPA had failed  to reply to one of Mr and Mrs Ss 
requests and had delayed  raising their complaint. So IPA increased  their compensation by 
another £75 which  our investigator thought was fair. Our investigator thought IPAs decision 
to decline Mr and Mrs S claim  and review it upon a medical certificate being provided was 
fair too. And, although  Mr and Mrs S had concerns about IPA referring to incorrect terms and 
conditions, our investigator was satisfied  that the right terms and conditions had been used 
in this case. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  firm opinions  about  whats happened in this case, but my findings  will 
only focus on the matters  I consider central  to this complaint.  That means I wont address 
every single point  or argument thats  been  raised,  and I trust that Mr and Mrs S wont  take 
that as a matter  of discourtesy.
Ref: DRN22324812Mr and Mrs S have  said the terms and conditions they hold for their policy  are different to the 
ones IPA have  relied  on. Mr and Mrs S have provided a copy of the terms they hold, and I 
can see that their document contains terms and conditions for mobile phone, as well as 
travel, insurance. IPA have said theyre unsure  as to where Mr and Mrs Ss document came 
from. And have suggested  it could  have been  something provided by their packaged  bank 
account provider   perhaps as a summary  of the benefits the bank account provided. 
The packaged bank  account provider has also said theyre unsure as to where 
Mr and Mrs Ss document came  from. And have  said the terms and conditions they hold for 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy are the same  as the ones  IPA have  relied on. Theyve also said that, 
as and when they are produced, updated  terms are sent on to their packaged bank account 
customers accordingly. 
Mr and Mrs S are frustrated by that, and I know theyre concerned  that the account provider 
might not have sent the relevant terms for their policy.  But the complaint Im deciding here is 
against IPA, not their packaged bank account  provider.  So, its not appropriate of me to 
make any findings about  something related to their account provider because of that. 
However, both IPA and the account provider  have said the terms being relied on by IPA are 
the relevant terms  in this case.  And looking at the terms IPA have used Im satisfied theyre 
relevant to Mr and Mrs Ss policy too. 
In considering Mr and Mrs Ss claim, IPA were  required to handle it promptly and fairly.  And 
they must  not have acted unreasonably  in deciding to reject it. Travel insurance  policies 
often allow  policy holders to make  cancellation  claims  stemming  from the ill health of 
someone not insured on the policy. And the terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ss policy 
set out that cover is available  for cancellation  claims resulting from:
Unforeseen  illness, injury  or death  of you, a close relative, a close  business  associate or 
any person with whom  you are travelling or staying during your trip. 
However, their policy also sets out that:
Cancellation or curtailment charges,  are not covered for incidents arising directly or 
indirectly from any pre-existing  medical condition known to you prior to booking a trip 
affecting any close relative, close business associate, travelling companion who is not 
insured under this policy, or any person with whom you have arranged to reside  temporarily 
while on your trip if:
a terminal diagnosis  had been received prior to booking any trip,
they were on a waiting  list for or had knowledge  of the need  for, surgery, in-patient  
treatment or investigation at any hospital  or clinic  at the time of booking any trip, or
during the 90 days immediately prior to booking any trip they had required surgery,  in-
patient treatment  or hospital consultations.
IPA declined this claim  on the basis that Mr Ss late mother in law had been taken into 
hospital on several occasions prior to the holiday being booked. And despite repeated 
requests a medical certificate to substantiate the circumstances  of the admission leading to 
the cancellation hadnt been provided.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S disagree with the need  
for that document,  but it isnt unreasonable for an insurer to request certain  documents to 
assess the validity of a claim.
Ref: DRN22324813Mr and Mrs Ss policy sets out what policy holders are required to do in the event theyre 
asked to provide  supporting information:
You or your legal representatives  must  supply at your own expense all information, 
evidence, details of household insurance, medical certificates,  original invoices, receipts, 
reports and assistance  that may be needed. We may refuse to reimburse you for any 
expenses for which you cannot provide receipts  or bills. Please keep copies of all documents 
sent to us. 
IPA explained  why they wanted the medical certificate. And I dont think it was unreasonable 
of them  to decline this claim  because one wasnt provided and agree to review it if was. 
Having said that, I accept that IPA gave conflicting  information  about whether a medical 
certificate would  be required.  
Making an insurance claim is, by its very nature, likely to be the cause of some trouble and 
upset. And I accept that being given conflicting  information during that time may well 
exacerbate the impact  that claim is having  on an individual. Here, I agree that IPAs  
miscommunication around the medical certificate  in this case exacerbated that impact for 
Mr and Mrs S. But IPA have already acknowledged  they should  have  been  clearer about the 
need for a medical certificate. And they have, as I understand it, paid £75 compensation to 
recognise that. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S remain unhappy with having  to provide a medical certificate but, as 
I set out above,  their policy  requires them to do so if requested.  And so in all the 
circumstances I think the £75 already paid by IPA fairly reflects  the impact  its conflicting 
information had on Mr and Mrs S.
IPA failed to provide Mr and Mrs S with some  information when they were asked to do so too 
though. And they took three weeks to raise  a complaint for Mr and Mrs S when they were  
asked to do so too. Mr and Mrs S now have the information that was requested   which  was 
a copy of the terms and conditions  of their policy. But I can see that not having  a copy  of that 
document at the point their claim  was being  considered, and subsequently declined, was 
likely to have been both frustrating and inconvenient for them.  Similarly, I can see that 
having to wait for a complaint to be raised on their behalf three weeks after making it was 
likely to have added  to their frustrations too. 
IPA have already  offered to pay an additional  £75 to reflect  the trouble and upset that those 
delays caused,  taking IPAs total compensation offering to £150. Ive already set out why I 
think IPA acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Im not persuaded that IPAs delays 
impacted the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ss claim because of that. But I do think IPA caused 
additional frustration  for Mr and Mrs S, and I think the additional £75 already offered by them 
fairly reflects the impact  of that.
my final decision
Inter Partner Assistance  SA have offered to pay an additional £75 to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience  caused, taking their total amount of compensation to £150. I think  that 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN22324814So my final decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should  pay an additional  £75 to take 
their total amount to £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2232481