K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr P bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  It protected  his 
monthly credit card repayments if he couldnt  work as a result  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr P mainly  says that he had sufficient means not to need  PPI. He also said that if the costs 
and benefits had been explained, and hed known it was optional,  then he wouldve declined 
the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
I dont know what,  if anything,  was discussed  when Mr P took out his credit card. But on the 
application form Mr P completed to get his credit  card theres a tick in the box to have PPI 
added to the account. So I think he wouldve seen that it was up to him to say if having PPI 
was something he wanted.  And if he hadnt wanted to have PPI with his credit  card,  Mr P 
couldve left the PPI box blank.
Mr P signed  the completed application confirming  that the information shown on the form 
was correct.
So, on balance, I think that Bank  of Scotland made  Mr P aware  that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland said that in fairness to Mr P it would look at his complaint as if it had 
advised him personally to have the PPI. This means it not only had to give him important 
policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable  steps  to make sure the cover  
it recommended was suitable  for Mr P. 
Mr P told us he was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay, followed by 6 months half sick pay. 
But the policy wouldve  paid a monthly amount in addition to this sick pay, for up to 
12 months if he couldnt work, giving Mr P a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
Ref: DRN28304882I dont know if Mr P wouldve  always  had savings he could rely on. Ive also taken into 
account that Mr P told us that he took out this credit card in order to take advantage  of a 0% 
balance transfer  deal so he could refinance other  debt.  This suggests to me that Mr P might 
not have had as much in savings as he thought  or that he preferred to keep any savings 
intact to provide financial security or spend on other things. Having PPI wouldve allowed 
him to pay his credit card bills without  needing to use his savings.  
Although Mr P also mentioned having some  shares, having PPI meant he wasnt  at risk of 
being forced to sell any shares   perhaps  at a time not of his choosing when he mightnt 
have been able to achieve  the price he hoped  for. 
So I think the PPI couldve been  useful and it was suitable for Mr P. 
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The policy didnt cover  some things. But it doesnt  look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr P. So, I dont think having  more information about the policy  exclusions  
and limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Ps decision  to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr P when he bought  the policy. But from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for him when he took 
the policy out. Mr P paid for the PPI each month so he couldve cancelled  the policy  at any 
time without  losing out financially if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr P still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2830488