K821x#15complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the time that it has taken Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon), to 
complete the transfer of her holdings to another provider. 
She is being assisted  by her husband,  Mr H. 
background
Aegon accepts  that there have been some  delays, and has offered £150 compensation for 
trouble and upset.  But it says the delays havent  caused Mrs H a financial loss and therefore 
no more compensation  is due. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In short, 
he said:
Mrs H sent her transfer request to Aegon on 24 May 2018. The same  day Aegon  
wrote to the new provider to say it couldnt issue the payment by cheque and would 
need its bank  details. 
Aegon received the bank details on 14 June and acknowledge that it delayed the 
transfer by two days at this stage. It took until 20 June  for Mrs Hs holdings to be 
disinvested.
The transfer was completed on 28 June but should have been completed by 23 June 
and Aegon  is responsible for 5 day delay. 
Mrs H wasnt  transferring  in-specie and always intended to reinvest  her funds in 
different stocks with the new provider. Therefore its likely the delays would have 
caused her some  loss. 
Hes asked Aegon to calculate the following:
oCalculate (A)  which is the value  of Mrs Hs investment on 23 June.
oIdentify how many units (A) wouldve purchased in Mrs Hs new investment 
had they been purchased following the transfer completing on 23 June (B). 
oCompare (B) with the actual number of units purchased (C).
oIf (B) is greater than (C), pay Mrs H the difference  (D).
oIf the value of (D) is smaller  than what has been paid then no further redress 
is due.  
oPay £150 compensation for trouble and upset, less any sum already paid 
towards this. 
Aegon having initially accepted the investigators conclusion has changed its mind and has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN29506342The issue  at the heart  of this complaint is whether  or not the proposed redress  by the 
investigator is fair. On the face of the evidence,  and on balance,  despite what  Aegon  says 
Im satisfied that the methodology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And an 
appropriate way to calculate any financial loss Mrs H may have  suffered.  
I also think the £150 compensation offered for distress  and inconvenience  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I direct  Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) to pay redress as calculated below:
oCalculate (A)  which is the value  of Mrs Hs investment on 23 June.
oIdentify how many units (A) wouldve purchased in Mrs Hs new investment 
had they been purchased following the transfer completing on 23 June (B). 
oCompare (B) with the actual number of units purchased (C).
oIf (B) is greater than (C), pay Mrs H the difference  (D).
oIf the value of (D) is smaller  than what has been paid then no further redress 
is due.  
oPay £150 compensation for trouble and upset, less any sum already paid 
towards this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2950634