K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about advice she received from an appointed representative of 
Sesame Limited, an independent financial adviser,  in relation to her mortgage. She says that 
the adviser told her she would receive  £1,000 cashback but she didnt  receive it.
background
In February 2019,  I sent both parties  my provisional  decision  in this case, an extract of which  
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I dont repeat the background here.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Sesame 
accepted my provisional decision  but Miss B didnt. She said:
She disagreed  that a TV advert made  her think she was eligible for cashback. 
The adviser told her shed receive  £1,000  cashback and she phoned the lender to 
check that the offer was available when  she completed her mortgage.  
Its very convenient that theres  no recording of the conversation,  which  means its 
her work against the advisers word. 
She was very disappointed with my provisional conclusions. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B and I appreciate that she maintains that the adviser told her 
that shed received £1,000 cashback.  As Miss B says, its her word  against the advisers 
word. None of the other evidence supports Miss Bs recollection. On balance,  I dont think  I 
can safely conclude that the adviser  misled Miss B in the way she suggests. 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So, I 
dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27959422extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss B complains about advice she received from an appointed representative  of Sesame 
Limited, an independent financial adviser,  in relation to her mortgage. She says that the 
adviser told her she would receive  £1,000  cashback  but she didnt receive  it.
background
In May 2018, an adviser gave Miss B mortgage  advice in relation to her purchase of a new 
home. The adviser recommended a repayment mortgage with a fixed rate of 1.6% until 30
September 2020. I understand that the mortgage  was completed in June 2018.
In July 2018, Miss B complained first to the lender and then to the adviser that she 
hadnt received  the £1,000 cashback she was expecting.
Miss B says that the adviser said he was recording their meeting on his phone. She says 
that he told her that shed receive  £1,000  cashback.  She says that she remembers  the 
adviser filling out a fact find and when he got to the question about cashback,  he said that 
the lender was giving  £1,000 cashback anyway. Miss B said she wasnt asked to check 
the fact find and didnt get a copy to sign. She says that she didnt review the offer letter 
from the lender.  Miss B says that as the adviser  had told her shed get £1,000 cashback, 
she thought the lender would send it to her after completion; she didnt expect to see 
reference to it in the paperwork.
Our adjudicator said that Miss Bs complaint  was about the suitability of the mortgage.  He 
said that it wouldnt be fair to base his view solely on the unsigned fact find, which didnt 
show that cashback was important to Miss B. The adjudicator  said that the choice of 
mortgage appears to be based on interest  rate rather  than the overall cost. He thought  that 
the adviser should have carried out further  research. He didnt think that the adviser had 
recommended the most suitable mortgage product.
To put things right, the adjudicator said that Sesame should refund to Miss B the difference  
between her current mortgage product and the product at 1.89%  which  offered cashback, 
taking into account  the difference in monthly payments until the end of the fixed rate, all 
associated fees and the cashback element. He said that it should  also pay Miss B 
compensation of £100.
Sesame didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said:
Miss B was only concerned with the cashback  and didnt complain 
that the recommendation wasnt suitable.
The adviser completed a fact find, which didnt record a preference for cashback.
The suitability letter set out the advisers understanding  and invited Miss B to 
query anything that wasnt correct.
Miss B was aware that the recommended mortgage didnt include cashback.
It relies on the documentation  from the point of sale,  which  doesnt suggest  the 
adviser told Miss B that shed get cashback.
The adjudicator  relies on Miss Bs recollection  of a meeting some time ago.
Miss B may have confused the product fee and cashback.
Ref: DRN27959423The adviser sourced  the most  competitive interest rate in relation to affordability 
and budgetary requirements.
The monthly payments  were  affordable.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on what  I think is 
most likely to be the case. I take into account  the evidence  thats  available to me and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
Miss B says that the adviser told her that shed receive £1,000 cashback. The adviser  
denies that he told her that. So, Im faced  with a direct conflict  about  what the adviser told 
Miss B.
The recording of the meeting between Miss B and the adviser isnt available.  Ive looked 
at the paperwork  and theres  no mention  of the promise of cashback. Id expect  to see 
reference to cashback  where an adviser  recommends a product with that feature.
When Miss B first complained to the lender, it took a note of what it called  Demand In
Customers (sic) Words  and recorded  as follows:
I saw your advert on TV offering £1000 cash back on home movers mortgages,  and 
have just taken  out my mortgage with you and this hasnt happened (sic).
I can quite understand Miss Bs enquiry on seeing  the advert but I dont think it supports her 
recollection that the adviser told her shed receive  cashback. It suggests that she saw the 
advert and, having  recently completed a mortgage  with the lender, wondered  why she 
hadnt received  cashback.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont think I can safely conclude that the adviser told Miss B that
shed receive £1,000  cashback.
The investigator is right to say that we can look at suitability. In essence, Miss B says that 
she didnt get what she wanted and expected; thats  about suitability. The adviser was 
under a duty to recommend the least expensive mortgage, taking into account those pricing 
elements identified by the customer as being most important to her.
The fact find completed by the adviser recorded  that cashback wasnt one of Miss Bs 
preferences. The suitability letter said that Miss B felt that cashback wasnt  important  and 
pointed out that the recommended product didnt provide cashback. The mortgage 
illustration didnt mention  cashback; neither did the mortgage application or the mortgage  
offer.
Ref: DRN27959424Miss B says she wasnt asked to check and sign the fact find but I dont think  that alters the 
outcome here. There was no reference  to cashback in any of the documentation, either 
from the adviser or the lender. I note that Miss B says she knew  that the cashback wasnt 
mentioned in the mortgage offer. She says that she didnt give it a second thought as shed 
been told shed  receive it. But if Miss B were  expecting cashback  which  was quite  a 
substantial sum  Id expect her to query  with either the adviser or the lender the absence of 
any mention of it before she proceeded with the mortgage.
Considering everything, I dont think cashback was important to Miss B when she 
took advice about the mortgage. I think the adviser made a suitable  recommendation.
my provisional decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B but for the reasons Ive set out above, my provisional decision 
is that I dont intend to uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN2795942