K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  about the installation of a boiler  and central  heating  system, which  she
says wasnt carried out with proper care and skill. The work was financed by a loan from
Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, so Miss K says Hitachi is liable in the same way as the company
which carried out the work (and which Ill call B).
background
On 6 August  2019 I set out my provisional assessment of Miss Ks complaint. The text of my 
provisional decision is set out on pages 4 to 9 of this decision, and forms part of it. 
In my provisional decision I invited further submissions, so that I could consider them before 
issuing this final decision. 
B said, in summary:
Miss K was told that removal of her existing warm air unit would cause some damage 
and that she would need  to arrange  decorating after the work (not that those things 
might happen). 
She was told that pipes might need boxing  in. 
Miss K understood  that it would be necessary to have, for example, carpenters and 
decorators to complete the project.  That was her responsibility and that was clear in the 
documentation she signed.
Miss K was fully informed about  the pipe routes before the installation  and said that she 
wanted them boxed  in after the work  was complete. If Miss K has changed her mind 
about the pipe routing, it isnt the responsibility of B to fund that cost.
Miss K signed  a satisfaction  note at the end of the work. 
B pointed to previous cases in which the ombudsman had, it said,  taken the view that 
signing a satisfaction note was conclusive.  
A third party carried out electrical  work after B had completed its work.  That was then 
found to need  correcting.  Any electrical  faults  found  were not the work of B.
Miss Ks evidence  about the nature of her inspection of the work is contradictory.  
This service should make contact with the area operations manager for Gas Safe.  
Removal  of the warm air unit meant that a small amount of daylight became visible.  
Miss K understood that a ridge  tile might have to be re-fitted or replaced. Miss Ks 
evidence on this is inconsistent.
The boiler manufacturer and Gas Safe both confirmed that the flue had been fitted 
correctly. Had there  been any risk of water ingress, Gas Safe would not have certified it 
as safe, as there  was a risk of water falling on the boiler.
Ref: DRN23011702B accepted that there were three minor  outstanding issues  covering the pipework in 
front of the boiler;  lagging of pipes in the loft; and increasing the size of the condense 
pipe  which  could be put right very quickly and at very little cost. The award  suggested 
in my provisional  decision is more than the entire  contract was originally worth. 
Miss K had little further to add in response to my provisional decision.  She did however say 
that she had arranged for remedial work  to start,  and provided some  photographs of that 
ongoing work. That work had revealed a further piece of pipework that had been glued rather 
than soldered and which could have resulted in leakage in the future. She also said that she 
needed to replace flooring  where a pipe routed behind a fitted wardrobe had leaked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I havent  
changed my overall  conclusions from those in my provisional decision. And I believe that the 
points that B in particular made  in response  to it are issues that I had already considered 
very carefully. 
I do however accept that Miss K was told that the work would cause damage and that 
redecoration and that boxing  of pipework might  be necessary. I dont accept though  that this 
meant Miss K knew or accepted that her roof would be left damaged or that virtually all the 
pipes would be run along the floors of her home  such that she would need in effect  to fit 
additional skirting  five or six centimetres in front of the existing  boards.  She has said she 
didnt agree to that. 
I dont accept either that signing a form to say that the work had been completed to a 
satisfactory standard means that Miss K could not later, and after further reflection, complain 
about it. Bs obligation  was to carry out the work to a satisfactory standard,  not to carry it out 
to a standard sufficient to obtain  a satisfaction  note from Miss K. The fact that she signed  
that note is not irrelevant,  of course,  but neither it is conclusive. And, if she hadnt signed it, I 
would still have had to consider whether in fact the work was satisfactory. 
The fact that two separate businesses have taken  the view that the only way to bring the 
work up to a satisfactory  standard is to re-route  the pipework is, in my view,  significant. 
Unlike the problems  with the roof or the electrical  work needed,  theres no question at all 
about who was responsible for it. And its the largest part of the work that Miss K is unhappy  
about.       
I note Bs argument that other contractors were responsible for damage to the roof and 
electrical issues. But I explained in my provisional decision why I thought it more likely  than 
not that B was responsible and why that meant  Hitachi Finance should compensate Miss K.  
For her part, Miss K has identified  some  new issues which have come to light very recently 
and has expanded on some existing problems.  I dont believe though that they are a reason 
to increase my proposed  award.  
However, as I indicated in my provisional decision, my proposed award  was intended  to be 
one that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, not a precise calculation of what is 
needed to put matters  right. I havent seen anything in the further submissions in this case  to 
cause me to change my view that a payment of £4,650 is appropriate here.  
Ref: DRN23011703my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Miss Ks complaint, Hitachi Capital (UK) plc 
should pay her £4,650.  Payment should be made within 28 days of Miss Ks acceptance of 
my final decision, after which  interest  will accrue on that sum at the rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN23011704text of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss K complains  about the installation of a boiler  and central heating system, which she
says wasnt  carried out with proper care and skill. The work was financed  by a loan from
Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, so Miss K says Hitachi is liable in the same way as the company
which carried out the work (and which  Ill call B).
background
In July 2018  B installed a combination boiler  and central heating system at Miss Ks home.
The quotation and contract note recorded that the boiler was to be installed in a frame in the
loft space and that the existing warm  air heating unit was to be removed. It also noted  that
the boiler came with a 10-year warranty and:
the removal of the existing  unit might  cause  some  damage;
pipes might need boxing; and
decoration might be needed after the job.
The installation of the boiler also required new pipework within the loft space, the fitting of
radiators and associated pipework throughout Miss Ks house, electrical  work and the
installation of a flue. When the work  was completed, B says that Miss K signed  a customer
satisfaction note, having inspected the work that had been  done. However, she contacted  B
a couple of weeks  later to say that there was a leak from the roof, which she attributed to the
fitting of the flue. B attended  her home but concluded that the leak was coming from an
additional radiator that had been installed  after the main boiler work  was completed.
Nevertheless, it paid some  modest  compensation to Miss K.
Miss K later made a complaint to Gas Safe Register, which describes itself as the official gas
registration body of gas businesses  and engineers in the UK, operated on behalf of regional
health and safety authorities. On 29 August Gas Safe inspected the work that had been
done and produced  a report which it sent to B. That report identified five issues. They were:
1. Gas pipework was installed immediately  in front of the boiler, where it should have been  
protected.
2. A bracket  needed to be fitted to the flue so that it was fully supported.
3. Gas pipework was touching an electrical  wire and was not separated by insulating  material.
4. Internal pipes in unheated  areas (such as a loft) should be treated as if they were external  pipes, 
so a larger diameter  condensing pipe should  have  been installed.
5. Water  pipes had not been insulated.
None of these issues was identified by the inspector as being unsafe  or, to use Gas Safes
terminology, Immediately  Dangerous or At Risk. Instead, the first four were classed as
Not to Current  Standards  meaning  work does not necessarily meet  current  standards but
is not unsafe.  The fifth issue was categorised as a Building Regulations Non-Compliance
matter.
B says it offered  to address  the remaining issues, but Miss K would  not arrange a further
visit. She remained  unhappy, and said that the installation had left her with a leaking roof
because the flue hadnt been fitted  properly, there were broken roof tiles and ripped felt in
the loft, gas pipes had not been properly  fitted  and wiring had not been carried out properly.
B said that any roof damage and electrical work was not its responsibility. Miss K had
arranged for further work after the boiler installation, and so even if there were problems,  it
was not clear who might have caused them.
Ref: DRN23011705Miss K said she was not prepared to let B carry out rectification works, as she was so
unhappy with the work it had already done. In November 2018 she arranged for a further
inspection from Gas Safe. That report identified  the following issues:
 Gas pipework near the boiler  was touching an electricity cable.
 Gas pipes were installed on the floor directly in front of the boiler.
 Gas meter  security  screws had not been installed.
 Gas pipes in the attic area had been joined with a jointing compound, instead of being  soldered.
 There  was excessive movement in the chimney assembly, which had not been properly 
supported.
 The condensate pipe had not been fitted  with enough clips to hold it in place.  It was not the 
correct size, had not been insulated  and did not have the correct fall to allow it to operate  under  
gravity.
 Heating pipes within the loft space had not been  insulated.
The inspector classified the flue movement issue as At Risk. Other  issues were  either  Not
to Current Standards or Not Compliant with Building Regulations.
It doesnt  appear that Gas Safe inspected anything not directly  related to gas fittings (the
boiler itself, the gas meter and Miss Ks cooker). But Mrs K is unhappy too with the
installation of heating pipes in the main part of the house. Photographs show that water
pipes have generally been run along the floors, close  to the walls. She says they should
have been installed  with clips above the skirting  boards. And one pipe, which  then started to
leak, was run through a fitted wardrobe. Miss K says she paid £65 to have the leak repaired.
Miss K also had a roofing firm to look at the problems  she says she identified with the roof.
That firm said:
 The flue pipe was too long and was loose, and that affected the efficiency of the flashing around 
it.
 Tiles  had been cut and lead flashing fitted  incorrectly.
 A tile above the flue had been broken and repaired with silicone.
 Roof  felt had been cut poorly.
The roofing firm quoted £430 (plus tiles) to carry out the necessary repairs.
Miss K also provided evidence that she had the electrical  work rectified, so that the cabling
was hard-wired and didnt run along the floor of the loft space.
In addition, Miss K obtained quotes from two different  suppliers to have rectification  works
carried out. Both suppliers  considered that the entire system  needed re-piping. That would
involve re-routing  not only the pipes in the loft-space,  but also those  carrying water to the
radiators  so that they would run along the top of skirting boards  rather  than on the floor in
front of them. The cost of that work  was estimated at between  £3,000 and £4,600.
Miss K and B were unable to resolve  matters  between them, and so she referred the matter
to us  as a complaint against Hitachi, which financed the work.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ks complaint.  He concluded  that the boiler was
not of satisfactory quality and that Hitachi should arrange for it to be repaired at no cost to
Miss K. Hitachi (through  lawyers acting for B) didnt  agree and asked that the matter be
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN23011706Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first of all that the investigator  concluded that the boiler itself was not of satisfactory
quality. However,  I dont  understand Miss K to have any issue with the boiler itself. Rather,
her complaint is about the quality of the installation  of the boiler and the central  heating  and
hot water systems.
Miss Ks primary complaint  is with B, the firm that did the work at her house.  But the supply
and installation of the boiler and central heating system was financed  with a loan from
Hitachi, arranged by B; and B was paid directly by Hitachi, not by Miss K. In such
circumstances, if Miss K has a claim for breach of contract against B, she has, under  section
75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974, a like claim against Hitachi. I dont  understand Hitachi
to dispute that, and so my findings will to a large  extent discuss Miss Ks dealings with B.
B agreed with Miss K that it would supply and install a combination boiler and central heating
system. That work would have included:
 connecting the boiler to the mains  gas supply;
 connecting it to the water supply;
 connecting it to the electricity supply;
 fitting  a condensing pipe to drain  away condensed vapours;
 fitting  a flue to take away gases  from the boiler and through the roof;
 fitting  radiators;
 laying  pipes from the boiler to take hot water to the radiators; and
 removing existing equipment.
Im required  to reach my decision on the basis  of what I consider to be fair and reasonable  in
all the circumstances,  having regard  (amongst other things) to any relevant  law. Relevant
law here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Section  9 of the Act says that a contract  to
supply goods is to be treated as including  a term that the quality  of the goods is satisfactory.
Where installation  of goods forms  part of the contract  and the goods are incorrectly installed
by the trader, section 15 says that goods do not conform to the contract. And section 49
says that a contract to supply a service is to be treated as including  a term that the service
will be performed with reasonable care and skill.
Miss Ks argument here is, in essence,  that the boiler  and central  heating  were not installed
with reasonable care and that B has therefore  breached its contract with her. To put things
right, she wants to be put in the position she would have been in had the system  been
correctly installed.
I have therefore looked at all the evidence available to decide whether or not the system was
correctly installed. That evidence has included  photographs, reports from Gas Safe and the
comments of other traders, including heating engineers,  a roofer and an electrician.
Gas Safe
Ill discuss first of all the comments of Gas Safe.  Ive summarised in the background  above
what was in its two reports. Its important to note that Gas Safe was concerned primarily  with
the safety of the gas installation. Its report didnt  therefore comment on, for example, the
routing of water pipes within Miss Ks house, damage to roof tiles or electrical wiring (which
the report  expressly noted  was not gas work). Those aspects were however part of the
overall installation work, and Ill comment on them  below. But, for the avoidance of doubt,
Ref: DRN23011707the fact that Gas Safe didnt comment on them does not mean  that they were  satisfactory.
Most of the issues that Gas Safe identified  were  relatively  minor  in the sense that they did
not give rise to any immediate danger. But Bs responsibility wasnt just to install  a system
that didnt present an immediate  danger to Miss K and others; it was to carry  out work with
reasonable care and skill. In my view, work  that does not mean  current standards in a
heavily regulated  industry and work  that does not comply  with building regulations  falls some
way short of that requirement. I think that the Gas Safe reports were  clear  evidence  that
even the limited  work that they covered had in many respects not been carried out to a
satisfactory standard.
I should  mention that the second report commented on the gas meter and Miss Ks cooker.
Any problems with those  pieces of equipment were not, however, the responsibility of B.
electrical work
Gas Safe identified that the electrical cable  connecting the boiler  to the mains had been
fitted too close to a gas pipe, but that that was an electrical, not a gas issue.  But of course
both the cable  and the pipe had been fitted  by B. Miss Ks electrician confirmed  that the
cable had not been fitted correctly, and Im satisfied  that this part of the work  was not carried
out to a satisfactory standard.
roof repairs
Again, Ive set out in the background what Miss Ks roofing contractor  said about  roof
damage. In my view, his comments  are entirely consistent with the flue having been  fitted
inexpertly, with the result that the roof was damaged in the process. B suggested that
subsequent work on the roof (which  Miss K arranged in an effort  to resolve the immediate
problem of what  she believed was a leak) caused the damage. I accept thats  a possibility,
but I see no reason why Miss K would have employed  a roofing contractor if there wasnt
already a problem. Gas Safes comments about the flue suggest B didnt fit it properly, and it
seems to me more likely than not that this was the cause of the damage to the roof.
pipework
Miss K has provided a large number  of photographs of pipework, both in her loft space and
in the rest of her house.  Both heating engineers who have provided estimates for the cost of
remedial work  have  included the cost of re-routing that pipework.
Its clear from Miss Ks photographs that her loft, whilst  not a living space, was a clear  and
usable storage space  which  had been fitted  with loft boarding. But pipes to and from the
boiler have  been laid across  the middle of the space,  on top of the loft boarding. I think  Miss
K was entitled  to expect that (with the exception of the space where  the boiler  itself was
fitted) her loft space would be largely  unaltered. That would have  meant routing pipes under
the loft boards or, if that wasnt possible, around the sides of the loft.
Miss K is also unhappy  about  the placement of heating pipes in her house. Her photographs
show pipes which run along  the floor in front of the skirting boards. They would be usually  be
hidden under the floor or, if thats not possible, fitted to the wall above the skirting.  I note that
the original  quote said that pipes might need to be boxed in, but I dont think that meant that
B could place  them  on the floor and expect Miss K simply to cover them  up.
I note that both heating engineers have quoted for complete re-piping; having seen
photographs of the way B fitted  the pipes, both in the loft and elsewhere, I dont think  thats
unreasonable.
other matters
Ref: DRN23011708B said that Miss K inspected the work  when it was done and acknowledged that it had been
completed to a satisfactory standard.  Its unlikely  however that she was able to carry out
anything more than a fairly  cursory  inspection.  I think its clear too that many of the problems
with the installation didnt  come to light until experts pointed them  out. In any event, I dont
believe it would be fair if any such acknowledgment  were to prevent Miss K from arguing as
she now does that the work was not carried out to a satisfactory standard.
B offered initially to organise repairs  itself. I can however understand that Miss K was
unwilling to agree  to that. Theres  no reason to think that any remedial work  would have
been done to a better  standard than the initial  work, and I dont believe Miss Ks positon was
unreasonable.
putting things right
The usual remedy for breach of contract  is to put the parties in the position  in which they
would have been had the contract been performed  correctly. So, in deciding what would be a
fair and reasonable outcome, I must have regard to that general principle. Had Miss Ks
contract with B been  performed  properly, she would have a hot water  and central  heating
system, installed in line with relevant safety,  building  and other  regulations and to current
standards. Her roof would not be damaged by the installation and she would have suffered
no leaks. She would however still have a loan with Hitachi  on the terms she agreed 
because that is, in effect, the price she paid for the boiler and the installation.
In my view,  therefore, a fair remedy  would  be to require Hitachi to make a payment to Miss K
that is sufficient  for her to have remedial  works  carried  out to bring  the installation  up to a
satisfactory standard. She can then decide if she wants to use that money to pay for that
work or to repay her Hitachi  loan, or for something else. If she doesnt repay  the loan, it will
continue as intended when she took it out.
So, what sum represents  the cost of putting things right? As Ive indicated,  Miss K has either
paid for or obtained quotes for various elements of the work needed. Some  might overlap  
for example,  securing the flue and some  of the roof repairs.  And the quotes  for the major
part of the work have  a limited timeframe, so might be out of date. There are also some
elements of work which Miss K says need doing but for which she has not provided an
estimate  for example, the replacement  of laminate flooring and decoration following leaks.
I note too that B has paid around  £500 in an attempt to resolve matters. Ive taken those
matters into account.  But I stress that the figure Ive decided on is one that I consider to be
fair and reasonable, rather than an exact calculation.
In my view,  a fair remedy  taking into account all the factors Ive mentioned  would be to
require Hitachi to pay Miss K a total of £4,650. That takes into account the actual or likely
costs of remedial work identified by Gas Safe,  re-piping  the system, electrical work already
carried out, leak repairs  already carried out, roofing repairs  and decoration.
This service can include in any money award compensation for distress or inconvenience. It
is, I think, very clear that Miss K has suffered  both here. But I have to have in mind that the
relevant part of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 makes Hitachi liable only for claims for breach
of contract against B. And any distress or inconvenience that Miss K has suffered hasnt
really been as a result  of Hitachis actions. I dont therefore propose to include such  a
payment in my award.
my provisional  decision
For these  reasons my decision is  provisionally  that Hitachi Capital (UK) plc should, in full
and final settlement  of Miss Ks complaint,  pay her £4,650.
Ref: DRN2301170