K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the way Rooftop  Mortgages  Limited have administered  his mortgage 
account.
background
Mr K has an interest only mortgage  with Rooftop. This mortgage was originally taken out 
with a different  lender, but Rooftop took over the mortgage in 2016.
Mr K has raised several complaints about how both Rooftop and the previous lender  have  
administered his mortgage in the past. Our service has already dealt with these complaints 
under separate complaint references.
Under this complaint, our service has specifically considered the following complaint points:
Mr K is unhappy with how his arrears  are recorded. He complains that Rooftop have 
automatically capitalised  his arrears, which is against the regulators guidance; 
Mr K makes  his mortgage payments on the 28th of each month but these arent  
added to the account until the beginning of the following month;
Mr K was sent a letter in December 2018  by Rooftop about a payment that wasnt 
received. This caused him to worry that legal  action  might  be taken.
Rooftop acknowledged the letter sent to Mr K in December 2018 was done so in error, and 
paid Mr K £25 to apologise for this.
Rooftop explained that Mr Ks mortgage was credited with the payments  when he paid them,  
even if theyre not received by Rooftop straight  away. They also explained that they hadnt 
automatically capitalised  Mr Ks arrears, and had been recording his arrears  correctly.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed that 
Rooftop hadnt capitalised his arrears.  He said he was sure that his arrears had been 
capitalised. Hes said this is because his monthly payments went up when the interest  rate 
on his mortgage  went down. The investigator  explained to Mr K that he had only considered 
what the business had done  from December 2016 onwards, as this is the time period that 
Rooftop were responsible  for the mortgage  account.  So he hadnt considered what  had 
happened before  then.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to make a decision, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr K has had several concerns over the years about  how his mortgage has 
been administered  by all parties involved. However, when deciding whether I think  Rooftop 
have treated Mr K fairly in regards  to his mortgage, Ive only considered the specific 
complaint points above, as Mr Ks previous complaints have  already  been dealt with and 
decided by our service.
Ref: DRN21358812Mr Ks arrears  and automatic capitalisation 
Its clear from Mr Ks submissions to us how strongly he feels about this issue.  Hes referred 
to the guidance issued  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and he feels hes entitled 
to redress in line with that set out in the guidance.
Mr K is right in that the FCAs guidance says that lenders should not automatically capitalise 
borrowers arrears. When this happens,  the mortgage arrears balance is included  in the 
contractual monthly payment  amount,  but also still recorded as a separate arrears balance.  
Where lenders have  done this, the FCA said they need to review the account, and has 
issued guidance  about what lenders should do to put things right. Mr K feels  that Rooftop 
should offer him redress in light of this guidance.
Rooftop have  owned Mr Ks mortgage  since December 2016. So in this decision  I can only 
look at how Rooftop  have administered Mr Ks account in light of his concerns since that 
date.
Rooftop have  said they havent  automatically capitalised Mr Ks arrears. But Ive looked  at 
Mr Ks account history and statements to see whether I agree this is the case. Mr K has two 
accounts with Rooftop  one for the main mortgage,  and another  for a further  advance  that 
was taken out later. Looking at both accounts,  I can see the contractual monthly  payments 
have increased  twice during the time that Rooftop  have owned  the mortgage   once in 
January 2018  and again in October  2018. Both of these increases followed an increase in 
the interest rate that Mr K was paying on his mortgage. I havent  seen  any instances where 
Mr Ks monthly payment has gone  up when the interest rate has gone  down.  
Mr K has been paying more than the contractual monthly payment each month, as he does  
still have an arrears balance that needs to be cleared before the end of the mortgage term. 
But this additional  amount  isnt being  included in the contractual  amount that Rooftop are 
asking for. Mr K is paying  more than the contractual amount. So Mr K isnt paying  towards  
the arrears twice as he believes  he may be  as the arrears balance  hasnt been included in 
the contractual amount.
Considering the way Rooftop have administered Mr Ks mortgage since they took it over in 
December 2016,  Ive not seen anything to suggest theyve capitalised Mr Ks arrears  on his 
account. As a result, Im not persuaded Rooftop need to do anything  further  to compensate  
Mr K for this. 
Mr K is also unhappy about  how his arrears  are being recorded. I havent  seen anything to 
show that his arrears are being recorded incorrectly, and Mr K hasnt provided any more 
information or detail  about what in particular he thinks is incorrect.  His account is in arrears, 
although Mr K is in an arrangement to ensure these are repaid, and this is what  Rooftop 
have recorded.  Based on what  Ive seen, Im not satisfied Rooftop are recording Mr Ks 
arrears balance incorrectly.
Other complaint points
Mr K complained that his mortgage payments were  being applied  to his account later than 
when he paid them. He said he pays on the 28th of the month but the payments werent 
added to the account until the following month. Ive considered Mr Ks statements and 
transaction history  for both accounts. Having done  so I can see that Mr K makes payments  
Ref: DRN21358813to each account on different days. Our service has considered  a complaint about the fact 
Mr K has to make two separate payments before, so I wont  comment  on that again here.
Mr K has provided evidence of two particular payments he made  in October  and 
November 2018,  and I can see on the statements that both of these were  applied to his 
mortgage account on the same day that he made them. I havent seen anything  to suggest 
any other payments  were applied to the account  later than they were  made,  so Im not 
persuaded that Rooftop have been applying Mr Ks payments  to the account later than hes 
paid them. 
Mr Ks contractual monthly payment due date on both accounts is the 1st of the month. In the 
time leading  up to this complaint, Rooftop had not recorded Mr Ks payments as being  late, 
or applied  any charges  to his account for late payments. There was one letter  sent in 
December 2018  about a missed payment, but Rooftop explained that was a mistake  and 
have paid £25 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Ive seen a copy  of this letter, and it does  say that an expected  payment had not been made. 
The letter asked Mr K to call them to discuss this. It doesnt mention any threat of legal 
action. The situation  was clarified swiftly after this letter was sent,  and Rooftop  have  
apologised for this and paid some  compensation. Whilst  Im satisfied Rooftop  should not 
have sent this letter to Mr K, considering  all the circumstances Im satisfied theyve done 
enough to put things  right.
I appreciate Mr K is generally  very unhappy  with how Rooftop  have been administering his 
mortgage since they took it over.  But based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
theyve been administering  the mortgage  incorrectly. 
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2135881