K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund cash  withdrawals and debit card 
payments that she says she didnt make or authorise.
background
Miss A told Barclays that she didnt  recognise  a number of payments and cash withdrawals 
all made using her card.  She said that someone had taken her card.  Barclays  investigated 
but has declined  to refund the money.  It says that it thinks Miss A authorised or made the 
payments and withdrawals because  her personal identification number  (PIN) was used for 
them.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She thought it was most likely 
that Miss A had carried  out the transactions herself. And she thought Barclays was entitled  
to decide for itself whether or not to continue do business with Miss A. It had given the 
correct notice to close  her account.
Miss A disagreed so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A has disputed six transactions, which were  made in November 2018 and February 
2019 in two different cities in the UK. The regulations relevant to these are the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017. In short, the regulations  say that Barclays can hold Miss A liable 
for the disputed items if the evidence suggests that she most likely made or authorised them 
herself. So my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think Miss A 
authorised these payments. But for me to be satisfied that these payments were authorised, 
I first need to determine how they were authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im satisfied from 
the evidence Barclays has provided  that whoever made the transactions had both the 
genuine card and PIN. I say this because Barclays has shown that all the disputed 
transactions were  made and authenticated using Miss As genuine card and the correct PIN 
was entered for five of the transactions (the other one was a contactless payment, which 
didnt require the PIN to be entered).
So Ive then thought about  whether  Barclays has enough evidence to suggest  its more likely 
than not that Miss A carried out or consented  to the disputed transactions.
November 2018
Miss A has disputed a contactless payment for £19 and two cash withdrawals made from 
machines for £300 each between 13 and 15 November  2018. Miss A reported her card lost 
on 15 November 2018 after she had logged into her mobile banking  and saw the transaction 
for £19. She was living in shared accommodation at the time and thinks someone may have 
taken the card from her room. And she told Barclays that her PIN hadnt been  divulged. 
Ref: DRN29057812I can see that Miss A last used her actual  card (rather than making  a payment by using her 
mobile device) on 8 November 2018  for a contactless payment. So Im satisfied that her PIN 
wasnt compromised  then.  She also called Barclays on 15 November about the contactless 
payment but she didnt  report  the two cash withdrawals until the next day. I think it is more  
likely than not that cash withdrawals would have  shown  on her account  when she logged  in 
on 15 November so theres no clear reason why Miss A didnt report these two transactions  
at the same  time.
Miss A has since told us that she kept her card in her purse and that she also had a note of 
her PIN in her purse. She tended to use her mobile device to make  payments so didnt take 
her card out with her all the time. I think its important  that Miss A didnt tell Barclays this 
when she reported  the card as lost. Miss A also says that her purse wasnt stolen and she 
wasnt able to say at what point her card might have been taken. I think if an unknown 
person took Miss As card then they would  have taken her purse  at the same time.
Miss As card was first used to make  a contactless  payment just 10 minutes  before the cash  
withdrawal. The genuine card and PIN were used to take out £300 in cash. It was then used 
the next day to take another £300. Miss A also made a payment by mobile within  15 minutes  
of the cash withdrawal, and this showed that she was in the same area at the time. 
No balance enquiries were made before either  of the cash withdrawals, which suggests that 
whoever made them expected there to be sufficient money in the account. Once Miss A had 
told Barclays that she had lost her card and it had been blocked there were  no further 
attempts to use it. If an unauthorised person was in possession  of Miss As card then I think 
they would  have continued  to use it until it was declined.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Miss A 
authorised or made these transactions. I say this because: 
She was in the same area when they were  made
I dont think an unknown third party found  or took the card and used it, having first 
observed Miss A entering her PIN
There were  no balance  enquiries made before  the cash withdrawals
The PIN was entered correctly each time without mistake
The card was used  five days after the last genuine transaction.  I dont think  an unknown 
third party  would  risk waiting that long to use the card
There was no attempt  to use the card again  after it had been reported lost or stolen. 
I know Miss A has suggested that the card could have been  taken from her room and has 
since suggested that her PIN could also have been compromised as well. But Miss As 
account of what  happened hasnt been  consistent and taking everything into account  I dont  
think it unreasonable for Barclays  to hold her liable  for these transactions.
February 2019
Miss A has disputed another three transactions that took place from 5 to 9 February 2019. 
All three were made using  Miss As genuine  card and the correct PIN. Miss A told us that 
she no longer had a written record of her PIN but kept a note of it on her mobile device. She 
suggested that her card had been  taken  again  and, as she hadnt changed her PIN after the 
previous disputed attempt, this is how the unknown third party  was able to use the card.
Im not persuaded by Miss As argument. I say this because:
Ref: DRN29057813Having had her card taken once  before  I would  have expected her to take her to take 
greater care of it
I wouldnt expect an unknown third party to remember Miss As PIN from three  months 
earlier, as Miss A suggests
The PIN was entered correctly each time without mistake
Miss A last used  her card and entered  her PIN three days  before the disputed 
transaction in a different  city from where she says the card was taken. Theres  no 
explanation as to how the third party could have observed her entering  her PIN then 
taken it and waited  three  days  to use it
The cash  withdrawals were made in the same city and area where Miss A last used the 
card herself
There were  no balance  enquiries made before  the cash withdrawals
The cash  withdrawals were made two days apart. If an unknown third party  managed to 
take Miss As card, without her noticing, then I would have  expected them to try to use 
the card as soon  as possible, rather than risk Miss A noticing that it had gone 
There was no attempt  to use the card again  after it had been reported lost or stolen. 
When Miss A disputed the three  transactions with Barclays she also told it that she didnt 
recognise two other payments made at the same time. One of these payments was made 
using her mobile device  and the other online so Miss A has now accepted  that they were 
genuine.
So from all Ive seen, I find, on balance, that Miss A carried out the disputed  transactions. It 
follows that Barclays is entitled to hold her liable for them.
other issues
Miss A suggests that Barclays should have  told her to change her PIN, after the first time 
she reported it lost or stolen. Barclays did cancel Miss As card. I think I might  have expected 
Barclays to send Miss A a new PIN given  the disputed transactions.  But as it has already 
refunded £300  as a gesture of goodwill and I consider Miss A carried  out the transactions 
herself I cant fairly ask Barclays  to do anything further. 
Following its investigation  Barclays told Miss A it had decided to close  her account. Banks 
are entitled  to decide for themselves whether or not to do business  and if so on what terms. 
This is the legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement, with which I cannot properly 
interfere  though it is required to treat Miss A fairly. Im satisfied that Barclays  gave Miss A 
62 days notice to close the account. I consider this was in accordance with the account 
terms and conditions so Im not persuaded that the banks  actions  were  unfair.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2905781