K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain  about Covea Insurance plcs handling of a claim made under their 
home insurance policy.
background
Mrs and Mr P have  a home  insurance  policy with Covea which covers buildings and 
contents, amongst  other things.
In May 2017, Mrs and Mr P submitted a claim to Covea after an escape of water  caused 
substantial damage  to their home.
In late 2017, Mrs and Mr P and their family  moved  out of the home to allow the necessary 
repairs to be completed.  They were  out of their home until October 2018.
Mrs and Mr P werent happy  with Coveas handling  of the claim.  They  felt thered been 
unnecessary delays with the contents claim and with the building  repairs.
They were  also unhappy that Covea wouldnt cover  some  repairs  to plasterwork and to their 
boiler. And they werent  happy with the alternative  accommodation Covea provided while 
they were out of their home.
Mrs and Mr P made a number of complaints to Covea which werent  upheld.  So they 
complained to us.
Our investigator looked into it. She didnt think Covea had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when they declined the parts of the claim relating to the boiler  or the plasterwork.
However, she thought  there were avoidable  delays in Coveas handling of the claim. She 
said Covea should  pay Mrs and Mr P £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by this.
She also felt that because  the alternative  accommodation offered  to Mrs and Mr P did not 
include accommodation for their horses and dogs  which in fact stayed at the stable at Mrs 
and Mr Ps home  Mr and Mrs P should  be compensated for the additional costs theyd 
incurred in looking after the animals  during the period they were out of the home.
Initially both Covea and Mrs and Mr P agreed  with this outcome.  However,  Mrs and Mr P 
then told Covea the additional costs  theyd incurred for care of their animals amounted  to in 
excess of £15,000.
Our investigator thought these costs were  unjustifiable. Mrs and Mr P disagreed  and asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I took a more detailed and specific view about what the outcome of this case 
should be, I decided to issue  a provisional decision before I make my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision  which is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word  on the case.
Ref: DRN26769872my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the original  complaint had a number of different elements, Covea and Mrs 
and Mr P agreed with our investigators view on most of them. So I dont need to go 
into those issues in great detail here.
Suffice to say the policy didnt cover damage to the boiler or the damp in the 
plasterwork which occurred some  considerable time after the escape of water.  And 
whilst there  were delays in the handling of the claim,  no-one  disagreed  with the £750 
compensation our investigator suggested.
Since this complaint was referred for a final decision, Mrs P has said shed like us to 
take into account the fact that her husband  was seriously ill during the period Covea 
were handling  the claim  and that Covea  were aware of this.
Of course,  I can see that this added  to the stress of the situation  and I am sorry 
Mr P was ill. But our investigator  was aware  of this when she recommended  the £750 
compensation. And theres no suggestion  that the alternative accommodation 
affected Mr Ps health adversely, so I dont think theres any persuasive  argument for 
me to increase the suggested compensation for the delays, which  in my view is fair 
and reasonable.
So, the primary issue for me to address in this decision is about  the alternative  
accommodation offered  to Mrs and Mr P throughout the period they were out of their 
home  and in particular,  the arrangements that were made  for their animals.
I think its important to start with Mrs and Mr Ps policy. Under the heading  
Alternative accommodation and loss of rent, it says:
If your home is made uninhabitable following  loss or damage to the buildings by 
any cause insured by this section we will pay the cost of necessary and 
comparable alternative  accommodation (subject to our prior consent and 
approval) for you, your family, your domestic  pets and horses.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mrs and Mr Ps house became uninhabitable as a 
result of an insured  cause   and that they were  entitled  to alternative accommodation 
for what turned out to be more  than a year. Covea have paid for that alternative 
accommodation.
For the first six months, Mrs and Mr P and their family moved into a house reasonably  
close to their home (7 minutes away by car). The horses and dogs were all housed  in 
the stables at the family home - which werent  affected by the escape of water.
Unfortunately, this let couldnt be extended indefinitely. When  it ended,  the family 
home wasnt yet repaired. The family moved  into a hotel briefly and then into a 
second let, which Mrs P tells us was 30 minutes  away by car from the home. 
Ref: DRN26769873Throughout this period,  the dogs and horses  remained in the stables  at the family 
home.
Mrs and Mr P say they were entitled under their policy to alternative  accommodation  
for the family  and the animals. They say Covea didnt provide this  neither let had 
stables and neither  allowed dogs in the home.
They say this meant they were effectively forced to make arrangements  which  
involved the animals all staying at the former  home. They did so by paying  someone 
to be with the animals throughout  the working day for the whole  period  in question. 
This cost in excess of £15,000.
Mrs and Mr P say they had no alternative to this arrangement  because  the dogs  were  
in stables which couldnt be kept closed  all day  especially in times of hot weather  
because this would be inhumane. Keeping the upper stable doors open meant the 
larger dogs could have  escaped  and were  then at risk of worrying neighbouring  
sheep. The person Mrs and Mr P paid to be in attendance  through  the day could 
ensure the dogs didnt escape.
Mrs and Mr P say this was the only solution which allowed them  to keep the dogs at 
home, which they were  forced to do because the alternative accommodation didnt 
allow them. And they point out that if the dogs had been put in kennels for the whole 
of the 12 months  plus they were out of their home  which they were entitled to under 
the policy - this would  have been  significantly more expensive than £15,000.
I dont entirely accept Mrs and Mr Ps arguments. And Ill explain why.
First, Mrs and Mr P appointed a loss assessor  to handle this claim for them.  From the 
evidence we have,  it appears the loss assessor   rather  than Coveas loss adjuster  
found the first alternative accommodation. I can only assume from this that it was 
acceptable to Mrs and Mr P  or if it wasnt, this wasnt communicated  to Covea.
I also have to assume that Mrs and Mr Ps loss assessor was well aware of the 
provisions in the policy  and made Mrs and Mr P aware  of them  if they werent 
already. And that therefore they knew the policy provided for alternative 
accommodation for the animals if it was required.
It appears the first let was close to Mrs and Mr Ps home because  they wanted to be 
on hand to look after their animals. So, it seems  the arrangement  was convenient for 
all concerned  and was agreed  by Mrs and Mr P. I have to bear in mind also the 
difficulty in finding  exactly equivalent alternative  accommodation for Mrs and Mr Ps 
family within a reasonable distance  of their home, schools  and business  given the 
nature of the home.
I dont have any evidence   and Ive asked  Mrs and Mr P to provide it if they have it  
to suggest that Mrs and Mr P objected to any part of the arrangement  at the time. Or 
that they asked  Covea  to re-house any of the animals in addition to providing  
alternative accommodation so close to their home.
Ref: DRN26769874Nor do I have any evidence Mrs and Mr P told Covea  or their loss adjuster   that 
they intended to employ  someone full-time to look after the animals. This may have 
been a cheaper  solution  than putting  the dogs in kennels. Mrs and Mr P have five 
dogs and the cost for each at the kennels  theyve  used before is £34 per day per dog. 
However, I note that the policy says Covea will cover costs subject to (their)  prior 
consent and approval.
Second, I also note the policy suggests  Covea  will cover necessary alternative 
accommodation costs.  I dont think this clause should be interpreted overly 
pedantically. But given  that alternative accommodation had been secured close  by  
at the familys request   I certainly dont think Covea were  obliged to re-house the 
horses. And I dont  think they were necessarily  obliged to re-house  the dogs,  given 
that a solution had been found which  at that time  seemed to suit all parties.
Mrs P told us it was necessary to have someone  with the dogs throughout the day to 
ensure they didnt escape through the open  upper stable door. I accept it would have 
been inhumane to keep  the door closed, but Im not sure I fully accept the need to 
pay someone to be there to stop the dogs escaping. Im sure, for example, that some 
means could have been found to prevent the dogs escaping through the opening  
without closing off fresh air and/or light.
So, during  the period the family were  in accommodation within  seven minutes of the 
stables and available to look after their animals  at only very minor inconvenience  
and given that they didnt  raise any objection to the arrangement  I dont think  any 
further payment  from Covea for this period  (over  and above the compensation 
already set out in our investigators opinion)  is justified.
I take a slightly different  view about the period after the first alternative 
accommodation let came to an end. Mrs P tells us the hotel  the family briefly  lived in 
was 15 minutes away from their home by car. I also have to take into account the fact 
that the disruption of living in a hotel  made  it much less convenient  for them  to attend  
to their animals.
After they moved  into the second  alternative  accommodation let, Mrs P tells us they 
were 30 minutes away from home  by car. Clearly,  that made caring for their animals 
much less convenient. The family were in this accommodation for around  six months.
Mrs P also tells us that at this point, they did raise objections with Coveas loss 
adjuster about  the arrangements  and specifically asked for their dogs to be moved 
into kennels. Ive seen emails in which the loss adjuster  agreed  to this, but it doesnt 
appear to have been followed up.
So, from this point  on, I think it is reasonable for Mrs and Mr P to pay for someone to 
care for their dogs,  in the absence of any real response to their request for kennel 
accommodation, and given their accommodations  distance from their home.
I still dont see that paying  someone  for seven  hours  a day to care for the dogs was 
necessary. I think some  means  of preventing the dogs escaping  without  closing the 
stable doors  could have been  found.
Ref: DRN26769875Im also very much aware that whilst Mrs and Mr P have  provided invoices to show  
they paid someone  for seven hours work  most week days  and for occasional  
weekend work  its unclear what precisely  the payments were for.
Mrs P now tells us the payments were  entirely for care of the dogs.  However, in an 
earlier telephone  conversation with our investigator, she said a lady usually comes to 
look after the horses but she has also looked after the dogs during this time.
When Mrs and Mr P submitted the claim for more  than £15,000 to Covea, she told 
them this was for care of the horses  and dogs . She also emailed Covea in July 
2018, in connection with her complaints and said she wanted compensation for the 
additional hours Ive had to pay someone to look after our horses,  as we are not living 
with them .
The covering  email Mrs P sent us with copies  of the invoices says,   as promised, 
the breakdown  of expenses re: the dogs and horses . And the list of payments is 
headed Invoices re: horses at (Mrs Ps home address).
So, on balance, I have  to assume that the invoices include some payments which are 
likely to be for care of the horses. This is important because I dont think  theres a 
realistic case to say the horses needed to be re-housed  or that they needed more 
paid care than they needed before the incident  in any case.  So, any additional costs  
Mrs and Mr P ask Covea to cover should  be for care of the dogs only.
I think Mrs and Mr P have  a case when they say Covea have effectively been  saved  
money (for kennel costs) because they were  willing to make arrangements  for care of 
the dogs which caused them some inconvenience.
However, as for the actual cost of those arrangements, Im not convinced it was 
necessary  even  after the move to the second  let  to pay someone full time to look 
after the dogs.
In my view, it would be reasonable for Mrs and Mr P to ask Covea to cover  some dog 
care costs after they moved  out of the first alternative accommodation   on the basis 
that it was significantly  less convenient  for them to get to their home after that point. 
But given they might have found  other  means to keep the dogs from escaping, I think 
two hours  per weekday  to allow for feeding / watering and exercise  would  be 
sufficient.
Looking at the invoices Mrs P provided,  the cost per hour on weekdays appears  to be 
£8.00. So, unless  I see more information to change my mind,  Im intending  to ask 
Covea to pay Mrs and Mr P £80 per week (for ten hours, at two hours per weekday) 
from the date they moved into the hotel  to the date they moved back  into their own 
home.
At just over £2,000, this is far cheaper  than the cost Covea would have incurred had 
their loss adjuster  followed through on his suggestion  after Mrs and Mr P had 
moved into the second let - that the dogs could be moved into kennels.
However, I also have to take into account that Covea   as the insurer  are obliged  to 
cover (legitimate) costs that were actually incurred by Mrs and Mr P, not to cover 
hypothetical costs  which might have been incurred had circumstances been different.
Ref: DRN26769876As I say above, I believe the £750 compensation suggested by our investigator for 
the delays in Coveas handling  of the claim is fair and reasonable. For the sake  of 
complete clarity, if Covea  have already paid Mrs and Mr P £750,  Im not suggesting 
(below) another £750  the amount paid should  be £750 in total.
And on that basis, I upheld the complaint and asked Covea to pay the £750 compensation 
for delays  (if they hadnt  done so already) and pay Mrs and Mr P £80 per week from the date 
they moved into the hotel to the date they moved back  into their home (with 8% simple 
interest from the date each weekly payment  would  have  been made).
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs and Mr P didnt  provide any further  comment or information  in response to my 
provisional decision.
Covea provided  a detailed response. Im grateful to them for their further  comments  and 
clarifications. 
They say Mr Ps ill health was not raised with them,  or their loss adjuster, until April 2018   a 
good while after Mrs and Mr P had moved  out of their home.  At around that time,  Mr P was 
apparently back at work, so it appeared there was no remaining issue.
They also say that Mrs and Mr Ps first alternative  accommodation was available  from 
August 2017,  but they didnt actually move in until November  which suggests the 
conditions at their home werent as bad as Mrs and Mr P said.
Covea also made  a number of points about the care provided for the animals whilst Mrs and 
Mr P were  in alternative accommodation.
They point out that Mrs and Mr Ps workplace is 50 miles  from their home. So they wouldve 
had to make  arrangements for care of the animals  in any case. And they suggest those 
arrangements likely involved paid care for the horses. 
They also say the second alternative  accommodation address  was just over 15 minutes 
away by car, not 30 minutes away as Mrs and Mr P suggest. So it was less inconvenient for 
Mrs and Mr P to travel to take care of their animals than they allege.
And they think the invoices submitted by Mrs and Mr P relate to the horses alone - and there 
were likely no additional payments for care of the dogs. They say there is a lack of clarity 
about what the invoiced payments covered. That being  the case, they suggest I split the 
costs of the animal care hours Id allowed (£80 per week for the relevant period) and award 
£40 per week on the basis that the care was likely  split  at least  - between  the dogs and 
horses.
Covea understand  that when Mrs and Mr P were  at the first alternative accommodation 
address  from November  2017  to April 2018   they took three of their dogs with them.  They 
say dogs were allowed  at the address.  The two remaining dogs stayed with family members.
Covea say Mrs and Mr P suffered no additional inconvenience from the time they spent in 
the hotel  which they point out was of a very high standard.  They  say the hotel was 
selected to allow Mrs and Mr P to remain close to their home  and their animals.
Ref: DRN26769877They also say the second alternative  accommodation address  was selected in consultation  
with Mrs and Mr P. And that the company they asked  to assist in the accommodation search 
were instructed to arrange kennels  for the dogs if required. And their loss adjuster was clear  
with Mrs and Mr P that this could  be provided.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the information provided by 
Covea in response to my provisional decision.
I believe Covea about when Mrs and Mr P moved out of their home  and when they were told 
Mr P had suffered  problems with his health.  
I said in my provisional decision I wasnt intending  to add any further compensation for the 
delays and inconvenience over and above  the £750  I believe Covea have  already paid. Mrs 
and Mr P had suggested I consider increasing  that because of Mr Ps illness, but I said I 
didnt intend to do so. And I havent  changed my mind.
So, apart from the £750 our investigator thought was fair to compensate Mrs and Mr P for 
the delays, the only remaining question for me was how much was fair to cover the 
additional costs  incurred by Mrs and Mr P for care of their dogs.
I said I didnt think any compensation was justified  for the period in the first alternative 
accommodation address,  so whilst  I recognise  that there are two different versions of events 
here, I dont  need  to decide whether the dogs  were with Mrs and Mr P and/or other family 
members.
I think Covea may have misunderstood  my point about the inconvenience of the hotel stay.  I 
accept it was a good  standard of accommodation,  but I do think being based  in a hotel on a 
temporary basis  with disruption to their usual routines, the need to move  twice in quick 
succession, the need to store their possessions etc.  would have  made it somewhat more  
difficult for Mrs and Mr P to attend  to their dogs  (which  definitely werent allowed in the 
hotel).
So I still think its reasonable to allow some compensation  for care of the dogs from the time 
Mrs and Mr P moved into the hotel.  
And, whilst I accept that the second  alternative  accommodation may have been closer to 
their home than Mrs and Mr P estimate  and was agreed with them beforehand - I still think 
its reasonable to allow  compensation after they moved in there. 
It was further away than the first alternative  accommodation. And whether or not Mrs and 
Mr P were  offered kennels for their dogs (and I note another difference of views on this 
point) it appears they did cause themselves some inconvenience rather  than put Covea to 
the very considerable cost of providing kennels for five dogs for a lengthy period.
So Im still satisfied that its fair to expect Covea to compensate Mrs and Mr P in some way 
for dog care costs after they moved  out of the first alternative accommodation.  
Ref: DRN26769878I agree  with Covea  that its not clear  what the invoices provided  by Mrs and Mr P covered. 
And as I explained in my provisional  decision,  I thought it was very likely  given the 
evidence and particularly  what  Mrs P herself told us  they were  at least in part to cover care 
for the horses.
Thats why I thought Covea should  pay for two hours  of care for the dogs per weekday   not 
the seven hours per weekday plus occasional weekends that Mrs and Mr P claimed. 
Im not though  going to accept Coveas argument that I should halve the amount  of 
compensation I suggested  in my provisional decision on the basis  the care was split 
between the dogs and horses.  
Id already taken  that into account when  I said Covea should pay for two hours per weekday  
(for the dogs) rather than the seven hours per weekday Mrs and Mr P wanted. My 
assumption being that five hours  per day likely  covered  case  for the horses.
So having  carefully reconsidered  the evidence and information on this case  and Coveas 
recent comments  Im not going  to change  the outcome I proposed in my provisional 
decision.
Again, for the sake of clarity, Im not suggesting  Covea pay a further £750 compensation for 
Mrs and Mr Ps trouble and upset.  I understand theyve already paid the £750 suggested by 
our investigator and I think thats  enough,  in addition  to the animal care costs.  I include that 
£750 in the summary below only for the sake of completeness.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint.
Covea Insurance  plc must pay Mrs and Mr P:
£80 per week from the date they moved into the hotel to the date they moved  back
into their home;
plus 8% simple interest from the date (week) each  £80 payment  would have been
paid to the date this settlement is paid;
plus £750 compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.  
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2676987