K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained about Scottish  Widows Limited. She is unhappy with the way it 
handled her request to take tax free cash from her pension.
background
Mrs M contacted Scottish Widows in March  2019 and asked for a pension  policy  valuation.  
She was sent a retirement pack which set out the options available  to her. 
One of the options was set out as:
Pension encashment   taking all (or part of) a pension pot as a cash lump sum, 25% of 
which will be tax free with the remainder  subject to tax.
In April 2019 Mrs M called  Scottish Widows saying that she wanted to take 25 per cent tax 
free cash  (TFC)  and leave the remainder  in her existing policy. Mrs M was told that this 
wasnt possible. She was told that she could take 25 per cent as TFC but the remainder of 
the pension would need to be transferred  to a Retirement Account and not left in the current 
policy. Mrs M was also told that she would need to open a new policy and she responded by 
saying that she would  need  to think about  it.
Mrs M called  back and it was only at this point  that the agent said that she would need to 
complete two telephone calls before the funds could be released to her. It was during this 
call Mrs M made a complaint,  as she thought the money would be released quickly.
Mrs M agreed  to go ahead with this two-stage  process  and times  were arranged for the 
necessary calls. Unfortunately, one call was mistakenly booked  on a Bank Holiday weekend 
and had to be cancelled. Another  call failed because Scottish  Widows  used Mrs Ms home 
number instead  of her mobile, as she had requested. These errors understandably caused  
inconvenience to Mrs M.
In a conversation  on 30 April Mrs M was told that she could take the full value of her pension  
by completing an on-line request. She did this and withdrew all of her funds.
Mrs M complained saying that she was unhappy  with the two-stage  process  she was 
required to follow to obtain her 25 per cent TFC, and that she hadnt been  made  aware of 
the time scales involved.
Scottish Widows  upheld  the complaint. It accepted that it could have managed Mrs Ms 
expectations better during the initial call. It also accepted that its service in relation to the 
scheduling of the calls had not met the required standards. It offered £150 for any 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs M didnt  accept and referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator  felt that the 
offer by Scottish Widows  was fair. She agreed that it would have been helpful if Mrs M had 
been told in the initial conversation about  the two-stage process that was necessary for her 
to take TFC and leave the balance invested. But she felt the agent had been clear  that a 
new retirement account would need  to be created.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She said that she had 
been indirectly manipulated into withdrawing all of her funds.  She wanted to be 
Ref: DRN25690552compensated for what her pension would have  been  worth  over the next three  years  before 
she intended to take it and reiterated  that the retirement pack had said she could take 25 per 
cent of her pension as TFC.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator.  I dont uphold this complaint  and make  no further award. I think  
the offer of £150 is fair in all the circumstances.  Ill explain why Ive decided that.
Scottish Widows  has agreed that Mrs Ms expectations  could  have been  managed  better, 
and that its service fell below the expected standard in relation  to arranging and making 
telephone calls. Its offered £150 for any inconvenience caused.
Mrs M says that shes effectively been misled and forced, indirectly, to take all of her pension 
funds when she didnt  actually wish to. I can understand her frustration and Ive considered  
what shes said, but I dont agree.
Its true that one of the pensions options set out in the retirement pack  was pension 
encashment. It isnt explained  that to take a partial  encashment, as Mrs M wished, would 
involve arranging a new retirement account. And it wasnt made clear at this point that the 
remaining funds couldnt be left in the existing pension  plan.
However, I think the retirement  pack did accurately  summarise the options available  and I 
dont think it was necessary for it to do more. It was intended to flag up the available options. 
When Mr M called  to say what she wanted to do, she was then told that she would need  to 
set up a new retirement account  to achieve  this  although she wasnt  told exactly what that 
process would  involve. But it wasnt a terribly onerous process, it required only two calls. 
Taking pension  benefits  often involves substantial funds and it is an important decision, often 
one that cannot be undone later.
So, Im not satisfied that Mrs M was indirectly manipulated into taking the full funds from her 
pension. I think she had opportunity to continue  with taking TFC and leaving the remaining 
funds invested  if that is what  she had wanted to do. I think  she made an informed choice not 
to do this and to withdraw all of the funds instead.
Scottish Widows  has accepted that it didnt manage Mrs Ms expectations as well as it could 
have and that its service  fell below the expected level. But I think the offer its made is fair 
compensation for the inconvenience and upset this caused. I dont  think  these errors have 
led directly to Mrs M suffering  any financial  loss in relation to her pension. Im satisfied that 
she could have taken  TFC and left the balance  of the funds invested if that is what  she 
ultimately wanted to do.
Ref: DRN25690553my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Scottish  Widows should pay Mrs M £150 if it hasnt already 
done so. I understand its original cheque hasnt  been cashed. But I make no further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2569055