K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 7 loans Uncle Buck provided to Mrs W between May 2014  and 
August 2016.  Details of the 3 short term and 4 instalment loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 27/05/2014 13/06/2014 1 125 168.69
2 24/07/2014 15/08/2014 1 75 101.21
3 29/01/2015 13/02/2015 1 175 197.40
4 23/09/2015 15/10/2015 3 250 120.42
5 12/02/2016 15/03/2016 3 200 102.29
6 23/05/2016 15/06/2016 3 200 97.91
7 16/08/2016 15/09/2016 3 400 201.77
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ws complaint in part and thought loans 6 and 7 shouldnt  have 
been given. Uncle Buck didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman,  
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN20711562There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading  guidance on irresponsible  lending and 
the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Uncle Buck  needed  to do more when it approved loan 1-3. These 3 loans were for a 
relatively small amount  and were taken out early on in the lending relationship. So because  
of this, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Uncle  Buck to ask her for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing 
to these loans.
There was a gap of around  7 months before Mrs W asked Uncle Buck  for another  loan. So 
because there was a fairly lengthy  amount of time here, I have  considered the loans taken 
out by Mrs W from this point forward as a new lending relationship  with Uncle  Buck. When  
Mrs W did approach  Uncle Buck again  in August 2015, it again  did a number  of checks. It 
asked her for details  of her income  and her normal expenditure.  It also gathered  data from 
credit reference agencies. From the information it did gather, again  I agree with the 
adjudicator, and for the same  reasons,  that there was nothing to indicate  Uncle  Buck needed 
to do more when  it approved  loans 4 and 5.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mrs W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached at 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Uncle Buck ought to have realised Mrs W was not managing to repay 
her loans  sustainably.  Mrs W had been making  loan repayments to it for over 8 
months and this was the third time that she had asked  to lend from it during that time. 
So Uncle  Buck  ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs W was having 
to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying her previous loan(s) was leaving  in her 
finances and that Mrs Ws indebtedness  was at this point  not sustainable.
Ref: DRN20711563Mrs W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Uncle Buck.  The 
amounts she was asking to borrow  had remained the same  and there  was no 
indication that she was looking to reduce this at all. Uncle  Buck ought to have known 
that Mrs W was not likely borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall in her income  but 
to meet  an ongoing need. Mrs W had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect; 
service a debt to Uncle Buck over an extended  period.
I think this pattern of lending should have alerted Uncle  Buck to the likelihood  that 
Mrs W was having  problems managing her money.
I think that Mrs W lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness  by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Ws ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
In Conclusion, Im upholding the complaint about  loans  6 and 7 and Uncle Buck  should put 
things right. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mrs Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP (trading  as Uncle Buck) should pay Mrs W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2071156