K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold  a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Santander  UK Plc (Santander).
background
Mr T bought  the PPI policy  when he took out a mortgage in April 2002. Santander said that 
the sales channel  was unclear. Mr T said the PPI was added to the mortgage automatically  
and he didnt need it. 
The policy provided  unemployment cover for Mr T at a monthly  cost of £21.20 (after a period 
of three  months of free cover). The monthly  benefit  was £492.00. If Mr T had made a 
successful claim, the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as there  is limited  information from the point of sale. 
Santander sent in copies  of some computer records of Mr Ts mortgage account, along with 
copies of the mortgage application form and some notes of its contact with Mr T. 
Mr T complained that the PPI was added automatically to his mortgage. I can see from the 
mortgage application form that Mr T applied for his mortgage through a broker.  The PPI 
section of the form included yes and no boxes to show whether the applicant required 
cover, but in this case neither box was ticked.  On a checklist completed  by the broker,  
theres a box ticked to say that Santander  should  contact Mr T directly about PPI. It seems 
likely that the PPI sale took place as a result  of this contact, although whether this was by 
phone or in a branch is unknown. 
Santander said that Mr T wouldve had to sign an application form and direct  debit mandate  
for the PPI, as the premiums wouldve  been paid separately from the mortgage payments. I 
think thats likely to be right as Mr T wouldve had to authorise the payment of premiums. Ive 
also kept in mind that there were  different  levels of cover available, and Mr Ts policy  only 
covered unemployment.  So I think its likely that there was some discussion so as to arrive  at 
a decision about  the type of cover. 
Ive thought about what Mr T said about the sale, but his recollections  of what  happened  are 
quite sketchy   which is not surprising  as it took place nearly 17 years  ago. Overall, I dont 
think I can fairly say that its most likely that the PPI was added to Mr Ts mortgage without 
his knowledge  and consent,  which is what I must be able to do before I can uphold  his 
complaint on this point.  I simply dont  have enough  evidence to say that this is what  
happened.
Ref: DRN29040962Santander has considered this sale as an advised sale,  and I have no evidence to contradict  
this. So it shouldve made sure the PPI was suitable for Mr T. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr T wouldve  been  affected  by any of these. 
Mr T told us he wouldve been entitled  to sick pay from his employer of six to twelve months  
pay, and that he had some savings (although he didnt mention the amount) and couldve 
relied on his friends  and family to help out. But their circumstances couldve changed, so I 
dont think their help couldve been guaranteed. 
From all this I think Mr T couldve  found  it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if hed lost 
his job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  in the 
event of a successful claim, allowing  him to use his savings for his everyday living  expenses. 
Its not clear how the cost was explained to Mr T, but Ive no evidence  to suggest that cost 
was an issue. And I think Mr T could reasonably have wanted  to protect an important 
commitment. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Santander clearly  explained all of the policy  
details, I think Mr T would still have bought the policy. It couldve  provided useful protection if 
Mr T had lost his job. This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Santander doesnt 
need to refund what Mr T paid for it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2904096