K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions)  
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought  
Capital Ones subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share,  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think it was made it clear enough  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI, and he 
himself chose to take it out. I say this because  I note the postal application  form he filled 
out contained a section about whether he wanted to add PPI. Ive been shown a copy  of 
Mr Cs form, on which he ticked the relevant box and signed the form. I also think  the 
charges for PPI then periodically started  to appear on his account thereafter. If hed not 
given his consent, I think hed have been prompted to ask what  the charges were  for. 
Theres no evidence he did this, so I think its more likely he wanted the PPI at the time.
Ref: DRN26749822As a postal application which  Mr C probably  filled out in his own time, Capital One didnt 
provide an advised  sale. So it needed  only to provide  Mr C with enough information  so 
he himself could  decide whether or not he wanted to add PPI and whether it was right for 
him. My experience with these sales is that the application leaflet was accompanied by 
some information about the PPI, so I think he probably had enough to decide what he 
wanted to do.
Its certainly possible the information Capital  One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But he himself chose to take it out and it looks  like he 
wanted this type of cover.  It wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr C, for example  he wasnt  
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover. So I dont think the policy  
was too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was buying from the information he 
was most likely given, even if Capital One could have done a better  job at explaining 
certain things. There were also no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental health or 
back problems and the PPI looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Overall, I consider that Mr C would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could have provided a 
useful benefit  in a potentially difficult time, given his overall circumstances. I think  that he 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
the points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital  One should have disclosed the commission it received  
although Capital  Ones existing offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Ref: DRN26749823was there  an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mr C about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which require a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mr C was unfair under  section  140A of the Consumer Credit  Act 
because Capital One didnt tell him about the high levels of commission  and profit  share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C because  it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Cs representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr C should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: Capital One failed to tell Mr C about the high commission  and profit-share rates  
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say 
that meant  the policy was poor value,  I should find that Mr C wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about  the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN26749824-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr C in order to remedy the unfairness  caused  by Capital One not disclosing the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Cs representative  suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital  Ones failure to disclose  the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate  compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr C paid for his PPI policy. I consider  this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves  Mr C with the policy Ive concluded above 
he would  still have  taken  out if Capital One had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
I consider that Capital  Ones offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest  where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Ref: DRN26749825my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr C an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2674982