K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) hasnt done 
enough to put things  right after it made  an admitted error on his loan account. 
Hed like Sunny to pay him an amount to cover  the extra  interest hes worried  hes been 
charged as a result of Sunnys  mistake.  Mr K is also worried that because hes been 
withholding loan repayments while the complaint  is ongoing, and its taken so long to get to 
this point, this will adversely impact on his credit file. 
background
Mr K has three outstanding loan accounts  with Sunny. 
In March 2018 Sunny contacted Mr K to discuss overdue payments on his loan accounts.  
During that call, Sunny  says Mr K made  the payments due. It also agrees that Mr K asked  
Sunny to reinstate the continuous payment authority (CPA) to ensure all future  payments  
were made automatically on the due date. 
Sunny admits it made  a mistake when  it failed to reinstate the CPA. It agrees that it 
shouldve done  this following the phone call when Mr K asked Sunny to do this  and Sunny 
said it would.
Mr K told Sunny  he was particularly worried that additional interest was added  to his loans 
because the CPA wasnt reinstated when it shouldve been.
Sunny apologised to Mr K and offered him a payment to put things right.  In its final response 
letter to Mr K, Sunny said it would  remove 28 days  worth of interest from all loans 
outstanding, which it worked out came to £54.04 on loan 1, £56.00 on loan 2 and £60.76 on 
loan 3.
Mr K doesnt  think this is enough  to cover the amount of extra  interest he thinks  hes been  
charged as a result of Sunnys  mistake.  Mr K says the CPA shouldve been reinstated after 
the phone  call when  Sunny said it would  do this - so thats when the interest should be 
calculated from. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our first adjudicator investigated what had happened  and 
upheld Mr Ks complaint.  He didnt think that offering to pay Mr K 28 days worth of interest 
was a fair way to settle his complaint  he said the amount should be properly worked  out 
based on the date that the CPA shouldve been reinstated.
Sunny said that the amount of interest it offered to write off was considerably  greater than 
the interest that accrued  as a result of its error.  
A second adjudicator looked  at the complaint. Her view was that Sunnys offer (and its 
explanation that the amount  refunded  more  than covered the interest Mr K wouldve paid if 
no mistake had happened on his account) appeared to address his complaint. Our 
adjudicator explained that Sunny could use the refund  to reduce Mr Ks debt if he still owed 
Sunny money.  
Ref: DRN26838112Mr K doesnt  accept that the way Sunny has worked out the interest  refund is fair  and hes 
worried that Sunny has been continually adding interest on while hes been waiting for his 
complaint to be resolved and that this will affect  his credit rating.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
It looks  to me like there are three main issues here:
did Sunny do enough  when it froze the interest on Mr Ks account 
what should Sunny pay Mr K to put right the mistake it made  when it failed to 
reinstate the CPA when it ought  to have done, and
what should happen with Mr Ks credit  file given that he hasnt  been  paying money he 
owes Sunny in protest at the unsatisfactory  way he feels that Sunny has dealt with 
this complaint and treated him generally.
did Sunny  do enough when it froze the interest on Mr Ks account  
Sunny has explained that it froze interest  on the account completely on 21/05/2019 for two of 
Mr Ks loans  and on 07/06/2018 for his other  loan. It hasnt  explained  why those exact  dates 
were chosen. And Im not sure if Sunny has reported those dates correctly. So heres  what  I 
think.
The system notes Sunny  has sent us show that Mr K had been  in touch about a payment 
holiday when he was having cash flow problems in September 2017. 
A payment holiday was put in place  in December 2017.
In March 2018, it appears that Mr K got behind with his payments to Sunny  and it looks like 
this is what led to him cancelling the CPA in the first place. 
Sunnys records for 9 March 2018 refer to sending a text message to Mr K informing him it 
would re-instate automatic payments on his account (which Mr K had requested).
Its not disputed  that didnt  happen.  Sunnys records show  that Mr K kept in touch with Sunny 
during April 2018 about problems he was experiencing with payments to his account (which 
seem to be significantly due to Sunnys mistake).
On 21 May 2018 Sunny  sent Mr K its final response  letter in answer  to his complaint about 
the mistake it made not reinstating  his CPA. And it wrote off the amount of £170.80, which  
had the effect  of reducing Mr Ks debt by this amount.
During a phone call on 23 May 2018 Mr K told Sunny he was unhappy with the outcome  
and so he wouldnt be making any payment to his account. It looks like Sunny made Mr K 
aware of the consequences this could lead to  including  getting  a notice of arrears  and 
being in default. 
Ref: DRN26838113Taking all this into account, based  on the information Ive seen so far, it seems reasonable to 
me that Sunny shouldve frozen the interest  on Mr Ks loans when it became aware  that its 
final response letter hadnt settled Mr Ks complaint.  I say this because although he was 
aware of the impact  this could have on his credit record (because Sunny warned him of the 
risks of non payment) Mr K still told Sunny on 23 May 2018 that he wouldnt be making  any 
further payments  to the account. And given his record of previous payment difficulties, I think 
Sunny shouldve realised  then that Mr K was likely  having money  problems and that he 
wasnt in a position to make  the repayments due in a sustainable way. 
In the event it looks like Sunny  did freeze  the interest on one loan account a few weeks later. 
But I think it shouldve frozen interest on all his loans at the same time  and Sunny 
shouldve done  that on 23 May 2018. And unless Sunny can explain why this didnt happen, 
and Im persuaded that its explanation is fair and reasonable, then Im planning to tell Sunny 
to do this.
what should  Sunny pay to put right the mistake  it made when it failed to reinstate  the 
CPA
Sunny says that as a result  of the CPA not being  reinstated when Mr K asked for this, and 
Mr K not making any further payments, the difference between the interest he actually 
accrued compared  to the interest that he wouldve been charged if he had made all 
repayments on time came to £57.60.
So Sunny couldve  just offered to pay Mr K the extra £57.60 he wouldve otherwise had to 
pay because of Sunnys  mistake  and he wouldve been no worse  off in money terms if 
thats all it paid him. 
Sunny offered to write off a lot more  than this  the amount offered was £170.80.
The way the ombudsman looks at this complaint is to say that Sunny should put Mr K in the 
position he wouldve  been if the error hadnt  happened in the first place.  
I agree  that the figures seem confusing. But it does look to me as if Sunnys offer puts Mr K 
in a better position  than he wouldve been  if Sunny had reinstated the CPA straightaway and 
the payments  had been made on time.  It looks to me as if Sunnys offer means Mr K is better 
off by £113.20.  
Given the anxiety  and worry that Sunnys mistake  has caused Mr K, I think thats a fair and 
reasonable amount overall to put right this part of Mr Ks complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr K is unhappy with the service he has received from Sunny  in the course  
of it responding  to this complaint. Although it is clear this has caused him frustration, overall 
I dont consider theres sufficient reason to award  any extra payment for this. The interest 
payment Sunny has worked out more than reflects what the actual interest payment would 
be if calculated by reference to the number of days interest actually accrued. And Mr K has 
had the benefit of knowing  this has reduced  the amount he would otherwise now owe. 
Mr Ks credit file
I appreciate that Mr K didnt feel he should  be making any further monthly  repayments  on his 
loan accounts  until he felt Sunny had resolved the complaint  to his satisfaction. 
Ref: DRN26838114So far as his credit file is concerned, given  that Mr K stopped all payments to Sunny in 
March 2018, he is right in thinking that this information will show on his credit file. 
At the moment it appears that Sunny is reporting  Mr Ks credit file as under query.  Although 
I cant say what conclusions credit  providers looking at Mr Ks credit  file will draw, I think  that 
note probably fairly reflects the position and it doesnt unfairly disadvantage Mr K. It seems 
to me that he has known  all along  that stopping the loan repayments  would have  
consequences for his credit file. And its something  Sunny did warn him about when he said 
he intended to stop paying.   
Looking to the future, Mr K appears  to accept  that he will have to pay Sunny  what  he owes  
once the situation is resolved. I would encourage him to contact Sunny now (if he hasnt 
already) to discuss how hes going to pay the money  still outstanding  on his loan accounts.
Id take this opportunity to remind Sunny it should  be proactive in helping  Mr K arrange  an 
affordable payment plan and it should  take a sympathetic approach  and bear in mind  that 
Mr K is likely to need time to pay. 
I expect information  recorded on his credit  file about  these accounts is likely  to show  the 
accounts are in arrears   and I dont think thats  unfair if it accurately reflects the fact that 
payments have been missed, and are still due. 
But if he thinks it might  be helpful,  Mr K could ask for a note to be put on his credit file 
(notice of correction)  to say that he withheld payments due to a dispute  with Sunny after it 
made a mistake on his accounts.
If Mr K is worried that paying  this debt to Sunny is likely to cause  money problems for him 
and hed like help or advice, this is available  free of charge from a number of organisations  
theres information about this on our website or Mr K can phone us and well pass  on contact 
details.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has contacted me with any further comments on what  Ive said in my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN26838115putting things right  what Sunny should  do
rework Mr Ks loan accounts so that the amount of interest owing on all outstanding 
loans is frozen with effect from 23 May 2018  
Sunny  can apply any payment owing to Mr K to reduce the amount of his outstanding 
account balance.  
Sunny  should  send  Mr K an updated  account  showing that it reduced  his overall 
balance by £170.80 when it sent its final response letter  and showing the updated 
account information once it has carried out these directions.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Elevate Credit International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
put things right for Mr K as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683811