K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns his term assurance  policy, sold to him by a Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC adviser in 1990 alongside business lending.  
Firstly, he says that the adviser  gave him no opportunity to assess  the cost of the cover or to 
compare it to any other provider. Secondly, he says it failed to tell him when it was no longer 
necessary to have  Barclays assigned to receive  his policy benefit. Because  of this, Mr H 
says he carried on paying for a policy  that he did not want  or need.   
Mr H is now being represented by his independent  financial adviser  in pursuing the 
complaint.  
background
Mr H met with a Barclays adviser in August 1990  to apply for a business  overdraft,  starting 
with an agreed limit of £40,000. As part of the lending application, he was asked to apply for 
life assurance.  He subsequently took out a ten-year level term assurance policy  with a sum 
assured of £165,000. This policy had a monthly  premium of £99.09 per month and began in 
September 1990. Mr H says he was never  sent policy wording  from either Barclays  or the 
insurer.  
Mr Hs overdraft facility was paid off in full in 1996. By this time,  the limit had been increased  
to £204,000.  
Mr H complained to Barclays in August 2018. 
In January 2019, Barclays issued a final response. It didnt uphold  the complaint.  It said 
Barclays was entitled to set out the conditions under which  it was prepared to lend Mr H a 
business overdraft  facility. At the time he was sold the term assurance policy, it was a 
condition of the lending that the borrower take out life cover and assign it to Barclays. 
Barclays also said that whilst it didnt have  written evidence from the time of the sale,  its 
adviser would  have sourced the most competitive policy for Mr H. He would also have given  
him cancellation rights, if hed been  unhappy  with what  he was recommended.  
Barclays did pay Mr H £100 for the delay in providing its reply.  
Mr H disagreed and brought the complaint to this service, where it was considered  by one of 
our investigators. Mr H reiterated  that he could have  sourced a significantly cheaper policy 
elsewhere, if he had needed  it at all. Further, he said he remained unhappy that the policy  
was allowed to run beyond 1996 as it was not required.  
Barclays said that basing a premium in 1990  on what  could be obtained in 2019 was not a 
reasonable cost comparison. It also explained that it was Mr Hs duty to contact the insurer  
and explain  his policy was no longer  required. It confirmed that Barclays  would not have 
contacted the insurer  on Mr Hs behalf.   
Our investigator said that it simply was not possible  to determine if Mr H could have taken 
out his policy  for a cheaper premium some  29 years ago. She did not believe it was 
reasonable to compare  the cost of life assurance  to policies  available  now. 
Ref: DRN23643422However, she did believe the policy should  have  been released  by Barclays  when Mr Hs 
loan was repaid  in full. Though she felt Mr H would likely have been sent some policy 
information by the insurer, Mr H was not specifically told by Barclays that the assignment  
had ended. And she felt that if he had been  told that (either directly  or by the insurer  having  
been updated by Barclays),  hed have likely been prompted to cancel  the policy.  
On that basis, she felt both parties bore some  responsibility for the policy continuing for four 
years more than was necessary. So, she proposed Barclays returned 50% of the policy 
premiums for that period.
The IFA said Mr H accepted the investigators  findings. 
Barclays said it disagreed  with the findings. It said it was not its responsibility to tell Mr H to 
cancel his policy, if he no longer required it. Nor could it have cancelled it on his behalf, as 
the contract  of insurance was between Mr H and the insurer.  It also said there  was no facility  
or service where it could  have contacted the insurer to tell it that the lending  had been  
repaid. Further,  Mr Hs beneficiaries had the benefit of an additional  four years of life cover, 
had he passed  away during that time.  
Since Mr H would have  known he was still paying for the policy,  Barclays said the 
responsibility for cancelling the policy rested  with him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator, for much the same reasons.  
Given the amount  of time that has passed,  Barclays has now destroyed the documentation 
that existed from 1990. It says it was not required to retain it, beyond  keeping the information 
for a further six years after the policy expired in accordance  with data protection principles.  
That means there is no available information from the meeting Mr H had with the adviser,  
other than the policy application and Mr Hs recollections from the time. He feels  that he was 
pushed into taking the policy at any cost. 
As our investigator has set out, we simply do not know whether  life cover for the same sum 
assured could have  been  obtained for a cheaper  premium elsewhere. But even if it could, 
Barclays was only willing to offer Mr H his overdraft facility of £40,000 rising  to £204,000 if 
he took out life cover  assigned to it as insurance in the event of his death.  
At that time,  Barclays had a company policy of requiring assignment of life assurance 
alongside business lending, and that only ended in 2000. 
I dont believe that the Barclays adviser  was unfair or unreasonable  in the way he proposed 
the policy to Mr H. It was a mandatory condition of his lending.  If Mr H had been  unhappy  
about the cost of the policy, he could have considered applying to a different lender. 
However, like our investigator I think Barclays could have done more  in respect of its 
assignment as the beneficiary of the life cover. 
Ref: DRN23643423Barclays says principally  that because Mr H held his policy  with a differing insurance 
provider, it could not have stopped, changed or altered his policy without his consent.  And 
therefore, it did not contact the insurer at all.  
I disagree that Barclays could not have told the insurer  that it was no longer necessary  to be 
assigned to the policy. The communication would have directly related to Barclays  being 
named on the policy, and therefore it was not an unreasonable step to set out that the 
requirement had ended.  
But, even  if Barclays felt it was unable to write to the insurer  in respect  of the settlement of 
the overdraft facility, I see no reasonable explanation as to why it couldnt  have  told Mr H at 
the time that it no longer  needed to retain an interest  in the policy. Barclays  has expressly 
said it did not do so. But it had reason to tell Mr H that he needed to act in respect  of the 
remainder of the policy term in the circumstances where it says it couldnt contact the 
insurer.  
Barclays has argued that Mr Hs family  went on to have the benefit of a further four years of 
cover because the policy premiums were  maintained until the end of the policy  term in 
September 2000. But that isnt the case. If Mr H had passed  away  between  1996 and 2000, 
the policys sum assured would have been  paid to Barclays. It follows that I agree Barclays  
should have done something  differently in 1996.  And the partial consequence  of this is that 
Mr H says he continued to pay policy premiums for cover  that should  have  only been in 
place as long as the business lending was outstanding.   
putting things  right  
When considering  the appropriate redress for complaints,  our aim is to put a consumer back  
in the position he/she would have been  in but for an unreasonable action or inaction of a 
business. 
In this case, I believe that it is most  likely Mr H would have contacted the insurer, if he had 
been notified by Barclays that it no longer required  assignment of his life cover upon  
repayment of his lending facility. However,  I cannot say precisely what Mr H would have 
done thereafter. The policy did provide another four years  of life cover, with a large  lump  
sum payable  to Mr Hs beneficiaries in the event  of his death (if Barclays assignment was 
removed). Though Mr H says he may have  been able to seek  cheaper cover elsewhere,  we 
simply do not have any such comparison available for life assurance in 1996. 
I am also mindful that Mr H knew he had repaid  his business lending  and was likely aware 
he continued to pay the policy premiums, given  he has told us that he felt they were costly.  
I agree  that though Barclays should have done  more than it did and ensured it no longer 
remained the assignee  for Mr Hs policy (by notifying him, even if it believed it couldnt  go 
direct to the insurer), Mr H could also have  sought to cease paying the premiums  if he felt he 
didnt want the cover anyway. I agree that in these circumstances, the most appropriate 
redress is for half of the overpaid policy premiums to be returned  to Mr H.  
I have considered whether it would be appropriate to award interest to this redress. I do not 
believe interest should be added. Our awards of 8% interest are applied where a consumer 
may have  been  unreasonably deprived  of their money; that may be the case where  a person 
is paying for a policy that they should not have  taken out in the first place. 
Ref: DRN23643424But in this circumstance, the position is that both parties allowed  the policy to run on an 
incorrect basis  Barclays by failing  to identify it should be no longer assigned, and Mr H (if 
as he says now) by paying for cover  that he says was rendered unnecessary once the loan 
had been repaid. Mr H did not raise this matter  with Barclays again until 2019. Though  
Barclays has consented to us looking at the complaint, it would not be a reasonable step to 
add interest for a 23-year period where there is equal liability  for the additional four years of 
policy premiums and where Mr H did not raise  the complaint any earlier.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Barclays  Bank UK PLC ought to repay two years  of overpaid policy 
premiums to Mr H, as set out above.  
I make  no further award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2364342