K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd mis-sold him an 
unemployment insurance policy because it failed to explain the criteria he would have  to 
meet to be eligible to receive benefit.
background
Personal Touch sold the policy to Mr K in 2012.  The policy would pay a regular benefit  
equivalent to £21,600 a year for up to two years in the event that Mr K was made 
involuntarily unemployed. The policy, which had a term of eight years, was underwritten  by a 
particular insurer which Ill call S.
In 2016, Mr K unfortunately was made unemployed. He made a claim to S. It asked him for 
certain information to enable  it to assess his claim. This information  included evidence that 
he had registered  with his local Job Centre.
Mr K told S that he didnt  intend to register  with his local Job Centre  because  he was close  to 
retirement age and if he decided to work it would be as a self-employed  contractor.  He 
complained that the criteria for making an eligible claim  hadnt been explained to him when  
he took out the policy.
Because Mr K was apparently complaining  about the sale of the policy, S referred the 
complaint to Personal Touch. Personal  Touch  did not uphold the complaint. It noted that its 
adviser had sent Mr K a letter outlining his recommendation at the time of sale and that this 
had said Mr K should refer to the policy documents for information about  the criteria  for 
making an eligible  claim. It said the requirement to register with a Job Centre was not an 
unusual requirement  in an unemployment  policy.
Mr K was unhappy at Personal Touchs  response. He referred his complaint to us. He said 
he wanted either his claim to be paid in full or all his premiums to be refunded.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, 
Personal Touch hadnt mis-sold the policy.
Mr K didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said he had never received any information 
from either Personal Touch or S which set out the requirements for making an eligible claim.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence shows that, in 2012, Personal Touchs adviser carried out a fact find which 
established that Mr K was concerned  about  protecting his income in the event he was made 
unemployed. The adviser recommended that Mr K take out unemployment cover to provide 
a monthly benefit  of £1,800 (equivalent to £21,600 a year)  for up to two years. The benefit  
was payable after a deferred period of 13 weeks. The sum assured and deferred period  
were set according to information provided by Mr K about his financial needs and resources. 
Ref: DRN23617862The policy was designed to run for eight years by which time Mr K would have reached his 
anticipated retirement age of 65. Im satisfied  that the advisers  recommendation was 
appropriate.
The adviser sent Mr K a letter  outlining his recommendation. This letter,  under the heading 
Making a claim, said:
In the event of you needing to make  a claim under this policy  you will need to contact the 
insurer. Please refer to the Policy Summary/Key Facts Document for full details on what you 
will need  to do in the event of making a claim. It is important that you familiarise yourself with 
the claim notification requirements.
Im satisfied that this made clear there would be certain requirements which  Mr K would 
have to meet to be eligible  to receive benefit under the policy.  The requirements which Mr K 
has highlighted do not appear to be particularly  unusual. In particular, the requirement to 
register with a Job Centre is, in my experience,  likely  to be found  in an unemployment 
insurance policy. This is because the policy is designed to protect  against  involuntary 
unemployment and the insurer will want  evidence that the policyholder is actively  seeking  
work rather than simply using the benefit  to enable  a lifestyle of leisure. I therefore do not 
consider that Personal Touch  was required to draw specific attention to that particular 
requirement. 
Mr K says he didnt receive  the letter of recommendation. It is unfortunate if this is the case  
but I can see that the letter was correctly addressed and I have no reasonable grounds  for 
believing it wasnt sent.
Mr K also says that he received minimal information  about the policy,  and nothing which 
indicated the criteria  for making a claim.  It isnt clear to me exactly what information Mr K 
had received. However, if he had not received information such  as the relevant key features 
document and full policy document,  I would have expected him to have raised  this with 
Personal Touch and/or S at the time. There is no evidence that he did so.
Even if I were to conclude  that Personal Touch was at fault for not giving Mr K full details of 
the criteria for making a claim, it doesnt  necessarily follow that I would uphold this 
complaint. This is because I would have then to consider whether Mr K was in any way 
disadvantaged by this failure. Mr K wanted to protect himself  against unemployment. His 
main objection to the policy appears  to be the requirement to register  with a Job Centre.  As I 
have explained,  this is a standard requirement in such policies and it is therefore unlikely 
that Mr K could have  taken out an alternative  policy which didnt have such  a requirement.  
Furthermore, while Mr K is now opposed  to seeking new employment  because he feels  he is 
close to his planned retirement age, he may have  felt differently about this at the time he 
took out the policy. I therefore consider that, even  if hed been fully aware of the policys  
requirements at the time of sale, Mr K may still have chosen  to take out the policy.
In light of all this, I consider that the policy wasnt mis-sold and I dont require Personal 
Touch to do anything more. If Mr K nonetheless  feels that S was wrong in some way to 
decline his claim, he would need  to make a separate complaint to S about  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN23617863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2361786