K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limited (AmEx) has unfairly 
reduced the limit on his credit card without  telling him first. He wants AmEx to re-instate  his 
limit (or at least  increase  it) and compensate him for the trouble hes been put to.
background
Mr T has a credit  card with AmEx, and hes in the habit of repaying  the minimum amount due 
each month  by direct debit.
In August  2018  he paid £500  into his card account, believing  that this payment would take 
the place of the direct debit. At some point he realised that wasnt the case  and cancelled  
the direct  debit instruction. He didnt do that in time to prevent  the direct  debit  from being  
collected, and it subsequently failed.  That initiated a review of his account  and AmEx 
reduced his limit to, effectively, the amount outstanding. It did that immediately and sent 
Mr T an email telling him what it had done.
Mr T complained, and says the terms and conditions of his account say AmEx should have 
given him notice before decreasing his limit. AmEx says it was within  its rights  to reduce the 
limit, but that it will consider increasing  it again  if Mr T requests this. It says it may well 
conduct a review of Mr Ts wider  financial arrangements before it agrees any increased  limit.
Mr T complained that this wasnt  fair but AmEx  wouldnt change its stance.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator  thought AmEx was within  its rights to 
reduce the limit without notice and didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr T remains unhappy about this and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
I accept that the terms and conditions for Mr Ts account talk about giving notice before 
making changes  to his credit limit. But they only mention giving 30 days  notice if the limit is 
being increased. AmEx says it tells customers about reductions to limits at the same time as 
they are made. It says that, otherwise, there would always be a risk that a customer  could 
run up a higher  debt before the limit reduced. It hasnt suggested that Mr T would do that, 
but I think how long the notice period for decreases should be is a commercial decision 
AmEx is entitled to make. It isnt appropriate  for me to challenge that. 
There is a later clause in Mr Ts terms and conditions (in the section headed Can this 
arrangement be changed) that says it will tell Mr T in advance about any changes  
including where  it thinks the risk Mr T might not be able to repay his debt has increased. It 
says this notice  will be given unless  the change isnt to Mr Ts disadvantage. This section is 
mostly about  interest rate changes, rather than credit limits.
Ref: DRN27054012Finally theres a section  about suspending Mr Ts account if AmEx  thinks  he might not be 
able to repay his debt.  It says it will notify Mr T about this either immediately before or after 
doing this.
Ive thought about the terms and conditions in relation to what  Mr T and AmEx have told us. 
Mr T says he thought a payment hed made into the account would mean the direct debit for 
the minimum payment  wouldnt be collected.  I cant see that he talked to AmEx about  this. 
AmEx says if hed done so it would have told Mr T the minimum payment  would  always  be 
collected  the other  payment would be seen as additional. It says it might have been able to 
alter the direct debit  but didnt have the opportunity.
I think thats reasonable. I can see on Mr Ts statement that it says payments into the 
account might be taken into account if they are received four days  before the direct debit is 
due. But the payment of £500 only credited the account the day before the direct debit was 
due. So it missed the deadline  and the direct debit was collected.
By this time Mr T had cancelled the direct debit instruction  without telling AmEx. The failure 
of the payment prompted a review  of Mr Ts account and wider financial arrangements and 
the subsequent reduction  in the limit. 
I think AmEx  was entitled to do that. Im satisfied that an unexplained failing direct debit is a 
sign that all might not be well. I think AmEx  was within its rights to suspend  the account if it 
so wished. It didnt  do that  but it has said the review  it undertook  led it to believe it should 
reduce the limit. So it took this lesser  action. It hasnt said Mr T cant use the account, so 
long as he stays  within the new limit. And its offered to review the new limit if Mr T asks it to, 
which I think is fair.
When AmEx initially reduced Mr Ts limit, it was slightly  below the amount he owed  so 
could, potentially, have  shown on his credit file as being over the agreed  limit. AmEx  
increased the limit to take this into account and said thats what  it would report to credit  
agencies, so it didnt  show as negative information. That seems fair. 
Overall I think  AmEx has taken reasonable actions on Mr Ts account. I understand he finds 
the reduction inconvenient, but he does have  the option of asking  for an increased limit if he 
wants to provide AmEx with the information  it thinks necessary for a credit limit review.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2705401