K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Covea Insurance plc wont permit him to cancel his Guaranteed Asset  
Protection (GAP) policy.
background
In February 2015,  Mr C took out a GAP  policy. The policy is designed to cover the difference  
between the market value of Mr Cs car following a total loss and the amount required to 
settle Mr Cs finance  agreement. The policy was for four years  and had a single premium of 
£312. The premium  would  be collected after the end of the four years,  if it hadnt been  
collected earlier.  
Mr C says that in April 2015, he tried to cancel the policy but was told he couldnt do so. He 
says that the policy document says he can cancel the policy.  He doesnt think  that he should 
have to make the payment in March  2019.
Our investigator said she hadnt  seen any records of Mr Cs request to cancel the policy  in 
April 2015 but she could see that he had asked to do so in July 2018. She said that the 
terms of the policy  provide that Mr C may cancel it at any time.  
The investigator said that whilst the terms of the policy say that theres  no refund of premium  
if the policy is cancelled  after 14 days,  she didnt think that was fair. She said that it wasnt  
fair that Mr C was required to pay the full premium, even though hes no longer on risk.
To put things right, the investigator  recommended that Mr C be allowed to cancel the policy  
and pay the premium up to the date he requested cancellation, on a pro rata basis. She said 
that his account  should  be adjusted accordingly. 
Covea didnt agree  with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman  consider the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say that Mr C may cancel the policy and if cancellation is within  14 days, 
hell receive a full refund of the premium but after that period, he wont get a refund. 
Ive listened to the phone call when  Mr C took out the policy. The agent said that if he tried to 
cancel the policy after 14 days  the cancellation  wouldnt be processed and he wouldnt  get a 
refund. Thats  not right as the terms of the policy provide  that Mr C may cancel it after 14 
days. 
Mr C says that he tried to cancel the policy in April 2015. The insurers  notes dont show  that 
he tried to cancel the policy then.  Im afraid  theres  nothing to support Mr Cs recollection. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think I can safely conclude that Mr C tried to cancel the 
policy in April 2015.
Ref: DRN24577722The insurers  notes show that Mr C tried to cancel the policy on 23 July 2018. As that was 
more than 14 days from the date Mr C took out the policy, Covea isnt obliged to refund the 
premium under the terms of the policy.  But Ive looked beyond the policy terms. Thats  
because the term about refund on cancellation creates  a significant imbalance between  the 
parties, so I dont think its fair for Covea  to rely on it. 
I think its fair and reasonable for Covea to charge an amount in proportion to the service it 
provided up to cancellation but not beyond that. It seems to me that once the policy  is 
cancelled, Covea is no longer at risk of paying  out under the policy.  So, it doesnt  seem 
reasonable for it to continue to benefit  from the premium.  
Covea hasnt provided any compelling reason why it should  be able to charge a premium 
after the policy is cancelled. Mr C hasnt  made  a claim under the policy.  My view would be 
different if he had made a claim. Considering  everything, I dont think  its fair in this case  for 
Covea to continue  to insist on payment of the full premium after cancellation. 
I think the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. I agree 
with the investigators  conclusions  and dont see any compelling reason to change  the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I now require Covea 
Insurance plc to cancel Mr Cs GAP policy from the date of his request (23 July 2018), 
charge him on a pro-rata  basis  up to that date and adjust  his account accordingly.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2457772