K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G has complained that Countrywide  Assured Plc (Countrywide) reduced the sum 
assured of her whole of life assurance  policy without her permission.
Background
Mrs G has a whole of life assurance policy with Countrywide. When the policy  was sold by 
an Independent  Financial Adviser, the annual  automatic increase option was selected, so 
the sum assured and premium  payable increased each year on the policy anniversary. 
The policy was subject  to reviews. At reviews  in May 2005, June 2009 and June 2014, 
Countrywide told Mrs G the premium she was paying wasnt  enough  to support  the current 
sum assured for the next 10 years. She was given the option to increase the premium to 
maintain the sum assured, or reduce the sum assured  if she didnt want  to pay more. If she 
didnt want to do either of these things, Mrs B could leave the sum assured and premium as 
it was. But Countrywide  warned  that this would  use up the underlying units in the policy and 
it would  mean a higher increase of premium would be needed when the policy  was next 
reviewed. It appears  Mrs G chose to leave the policy unaltered in 2005,  but Countrywide  
didnt hear back from Mrs G in 2009  or 2014, so the policy  also remained unaltered.
In September  2018  the policy was reviewed again  and Mrs G was told that all of the 
units in her policy had been used up. So, she was given the option to increase her 
monthly premium to £653.14 to maintain the sum assured of £457,281.  Alternatively it 
said she could keep  the same premium  but the sum assured would be reduced  to 
£154,535. Countrywide didnt hear back so it wrote  to Mrs G again in October  2018  
outlining her two options.
Countrywide didnt  hear back  from Mrs G to confirm  she was increasing her premium, 
so the sum assured was reduced to £154,535 in November 2018.
Mrs G complained. She said she hadnt received  any review letters in 2009 or 2014. 
She didnt  think it was fair for Countrywide to reduce the sum assured  without  her 
consent. Countrywide didnt change its decision. It said it had sent Mrs G the letters  to 
her current  address and these hadnt been returned.  It said it couldnt reinstate the 
previous sum assured  as Mrs Gs premiums  werent  sufficient to support it.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Countrywide had sent 
the review letters to Mrs G and that it had taken reasonable actions at each review. 
Mrs G didnt accept this  she felt she should receive  compensation and that the 
previous sum assured  should be reinstated. So, the matter was passed to me to make 
a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mrs G has a reviewable whole of life assurance  policy, meaning that the policy  is subject to 
reviews periodically to ensure the current premium  payment is sufficient to pay for the sum 
assured for the remainder  of her life. Mrs G chose to have the automatic increase  facility 
with her policy, so the sum assured has increased  substantially over the years.  Whilst her 
premiums have also increased, they havent increased at the same  rate as would  be 
Ref: DRN29395202required to cover the increasing  cost of life assurance as Mrs G became older. This is why 
when the policy was reviewed in 2005, 2009,  2014  and 2018,  Countrywide established that 
the premium Mrs G was paying  wasnt enough  to meet the cost of her life cover.
In the policys  early years, only a proportion of the premium went  towards  paying  for the life 
cover  this is because the cost of the life cover was cheaper at that time due to Mrs Gs 
age. The remainder of the premium  was used to purchase units  in an investment fund. 
These units can be used  to pay for the life cover  when  the premium  alone is no longer 
sufficient to pay for it. Countrywide explained this to Mrs G in 2005, 2009 and 2014.
Mrs G says she didnt receive the letters in 2009 or 2014. But Im satisfied they were  sent to 
her  they were addressed correctly and werent  returned to Countrywide. I havent seen a 
copy of the letter sent in 2014, but Im persuaded it was sent as Countrywides system 
recorded it as having been sent. And as Countrywide isnt allowed to increase Mrs Gs 
premiums without her consent (except  for the automatic increases  she agreed to at the 
outset) it left the policy unaltered. I dont think that was unreasonable.
As Mrs G didnt  choose to increase her premiums at these reviews,  Countrywide used the 
units in the policy to make up the premium shortfall. However, at the review in 2018, the 
units in the fund had been depleted.  For this reason, Mrs G only had two options;  increase 
the premium she was paying or reduce the sum assured. Whilst  Mrs G received these 
review letters, she didnt  confirm her choice to Countrywide by the deadline  given. So, I think 
it was reasonable  for Countrywide to reduce the sum assured.
I know Mrs G feels  this is unfair, but she hasnt said that she wouldve agreed to the 
premium increase to keep  the sum assured at £457,281. Instead, she wanted to keep  the 
sum assured and the premium  as it was. However,  for the reasons Ive explained, that 
wasnt possible. So, Im not asking Countrywide to reinstate  the previous sum assured  or 
pay any compensation as I dont  think  it has treated Mrs G unfairly.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939520