K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Openwork Limited (Openwork) mis-sold him a stand-alone payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2008.
background
In November 2019, I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I wasnt  intending 
to uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional  decision is attached and forms part of this 
complaint.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
Openwork didnt have  anything  further to add.
Mr K didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary he said the following:
He clarified that this was an MPPI  policy  and not a PPI policy. In this regard he said 
that the MPPI policy would be paid directly to the policy  holder  not the lender.
He re-iterated that this was an advised  sale. So, Openwork was under a duty to 
ensure that any advice given was for the benefit  of the consumer.
The mortgage eventually increased  to a cost of £1,418.21 for 249 payments. The 
business recommended a policy  where  the benefit  claimed could not exceed £1500. 
So, he says he could  not benefit from the policy because of the restriction placed on 
the maximum amount  that could be claimed  through the policy.  The initial  amount  
was only for 26 months of the mortgage  term and due to the policy  restrictions, he 
would only have  been able to cover  the mortgage repayments and not the additional 
bills. Mr K says he chose  the extra cover because he made it clear to the business  
that he was looking  for a policy that covered his monthly repayment as well as his 
monthly bills  to opt for the extra  cover  was the only way to obtain  the maximum 
cover the policy offered.
He had a guaranteed bonus every 6 months  set out in his contract.
He had sick pay and additional investments.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
An MPPI policy is simply a particular type of PPI policy. This policy  covered Mr Ks mortgage 
repayments if Mr K couldnt  work or lost his job. His mortgage was a long-term commitment.  
The consequences of being unable to repay it were serious and he could have lost his home 
if he didnt keep up with these repayments.  Even if the benefit would be paid directly  to Mr K 
he could choose  what he wanted to use the payment for and if he lost his job or couldnt 
work the cover could  have come in useful.
Ref: DRN22385122Mr K chose the policy after taking out his mortgage and I think  matters  were discussed with 
the representative. This was a monthly premium policy so if it no longer suited Mr K he could 
have cancelled it at any time. This policy covered his mortgage repayments and extra  costs  
when he took it out and for some time afterwards. And even when his mortgage increased,  
he could have amended the benefit of the policy so that his mortgage repayments  could  be 
covered. Even if additional costs could not have been covered when his mortgage 
increased, I still think the PPI was suitable  as it could have paid out his mortgage 
repayments if things  went wrong financially, leaving any other sick pay to cover important 
living expenses.
Mr K has told us about his sick pay and investments. So, he says he didnt need the cover. 
Mr K has also told us that he wanted the cover for both his mortgage repayments and the 
extra cover for bills. These two statements arent quite consistent with each  other. Ive 
thought about what Mr K has told us carefully.  Ive set out in my provisional decision why I 
still think the policy would have been useful  if things went wrong. I can see Mr K has said he 
would have had a guaranteed bonus,  but he hasnt been able to give details about this and 
even so the PPI would have been  paid in addition to any bonus he did get.
Insurance is taken  out to protect an unexpected  event. Looking at all the evidence,  I cant 
say that this policy was unsuitable. I still think it would  be useful if things went wrong and 
even if hed received  better information at the time, I dont think  hed have changed his mind  
about buying the PPI.
I dont think Mr K lost out financially because of anything  Openwork did wrong. So, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22385123Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr K complains that Openwork Limited (Openwork) mis-sold him a stand-alone payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2008.
background
Mr K took out the PPI in 2008.  This was to cover  a mortgage he took out in 2007. The policy initially  
cost £63.03  and it would have paid the monthly benefit of £1,482.98 which  was the monthly  mortgage 
repayment plus an extra 25% of cover.
The policy covered Mr K if he was off work  through an accident,  sickness or if he lost his job for up to 
12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think this policy was mis-sold.  Mr K disagreed with this view and asked that his 
matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. I will explain  why.
Where the information is incomplete or inconsistent, I will make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  that is whats more  likely to have  happened  taking into account  the evidence we have 
available and what the parties  have told us.
I think  Mr K chose the policy at the time and understood he had a choice about  declining  the PPI if he 
didnt want it - even if he doesnt remember doing so after so long. I say this because  I can see this 
was a stand-alone PPI policy which  Mr K took out the year after he had completed on his mortgage. 
So, I dont think Mr K would have thought he had to have the PPI to secure his mortgage.  
I note there is a document headed Solution  details  for Mr K, which  sets out Mr Ks circumstances at 
the time of the sale.  I can also see that the policy  was sold at a meeting. A section in this paperwork is 
about the PPI. And another document, summary  of requirements sets out that Mr K wanted to 
protect his ability to repay his mortgage and associated bills if he was unable to work due to 
unemployment or disability. From this it looks like a discussion  took place about what type and level of 
cover best suited Mr Ks needs. I can see that there was an option to take an extra 25% cover on top 
of the mortgage repayments and Mr K chose this option. I can also Mr K gave his bank details  for a 
direct debit which was likely to have been completed. Taking all this into account I think the policy was 
chosen for the protection it gave and Mr K would more  likely know he could have refused this type of 
cover if he didnt want it.
I think  this was more  likely  an advised sale. That meant Openwork  needed to take reasonable steps 
to make sure it was right for Mr Ks circumstances.  It also had to give him enough  clear  information  so 
that he could decide for himself whether to take out the cover.
To help me decide if it was suitable for Mr K, Ive looked  at his circumstances at the time as well as 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN22385124I think  the policy was suitable. I say this because I can see Mr K would have been eligible  for the 
cover. And looking at the paperwork from the time, I think Mr K was working and there is nothing to 
suggest on the forms that he had a pre-existing medical  condition when he bought the cover.  So, I 
dont think he would have  been affected  by any of the main  limitations or exclusions set out in the 
policy terms and conditions which might have made  it more difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr K has told us he had other means. I can see he had worked at his employment for some years had 
some sick pay. He says he would have received this indefinitely, but this level of sick pay is very 
unusual. And I have  looked  at the paperwork  - theres nothing  written there that makes  me think Mr K 
would have received open-ended sick pay. It says on one document  that Mr K did not know the exact 
details of his sickness absence scheme, but he confirmed he would receive  an income for at least 
three months. This policy would have paid out for up to 12 months and it would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr K got and I think taking everything into account, on balance,  more likely for 
longer, than his full sick pay would have lasted. 
Weve also asked  Mr K for more information  about his other means,  but he has not provided any 
further details. So, Ive also thought  about what Mr K has said about his other means to the business  
when he made his complaint. Ive also looked at the paperwork completed at the time of the sale. I 
can see he has told us and Openwork that at the time he was working  in a good job, and he had 
income from other businesses and investments as well as income from other rental properties. He 
has been unable  to provide  clarification or details about this. He also said he had other contingencies 
in place for critical illness and disability.  I have thought about what he has said. I can see he likely  got 
bonus payments from work, but I can also see he had other  borrowings  on top of his mortgage. Bonus 
payments arent usually guaranteed and can vary from year to year. Critical illness policies arent the 
same as PPI. PPI pays out a monthly benefit if Mr K couldnt work  or lost his job. And theres nothing 
on the forms completed at the time that indicate he had other income sources from business  interests 
or rental  income. If he couldnt  work, then Mr Ks income  could have  quickly reduced.  The PPI was 
taken out to protect  increased borrowing on his mortgage. The consequences of being  unable to 
repay it were serious. Insurance is there to protect an expected event and I still think the policy was 
suitable for him if things went  wrong.
Mr K has said that when  the PPI was sold the terms and conditions werent fully explained  and the 
exclusion clauses which he may have  been  affected by werent highlighted  to him. 
Overall, I think  the cost and the benefit of the policy  were  more likely made clear  to Mr K at the time. 
But as I wasnt in the meeting, its possible not all the information was as clear  as it could have been. 
Thats not enough for me to say that the PPI was mis-sold. I next need to consider whether Mr K 
would have changed his mind if hed been given  clearer  or better  information. I cant say he would 
have been put off buying the policy. As I explained above, I think he likely chose the cover.  And I dont 
think hed have been affected by any exclusions or limitations in the policy. For much the same 
reasons as I think the PPI was suitable, I still think Mr K would have bought the cover even he had 
been given better information.
So, Im sorry to disappoint  Mr K but as things  stand, I dont  think Mr K lost out financially as a result of 
anything Openwork did wrong  and Im not intending to uphold this complaint. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 28 
December 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238512