K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of Mrs H, his wife, that she cant make high value transactions  
with her Clydesdale Bank  PLC trading as Yorkshire  Bank current account as the bank has 
changed its internet  banking  platform. She would like its internet banking platform  to be 
compatible with a range of web browsers. And compensation for their time and effort.
background
Mr H says Yorkshire Bank wrote  to his wife in June 2018 to say it was going  to change  its 
existing internet banking platform from September 2018. Mr H says they dont use mobile  
apps so need to be able to use online banking for high value transactions.  He says Yorkshire  
Bank sent them a token  in order to access the new internet  banking  platform.  But he says it 
isnt compatible with all internet  browsers and not the one that Mr and Mrs H have
Yorkshire Bank accepted that the situation wasnt ideal but said it was trying to find a 
solution. It said there were other ways that Mrs H could make high value payments .And if 
she chose to make CHAPS payments for more than £5,000 it would  consider  refunding  
associated fees.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found Yorkshire bank had acted 
reasonably. It was trying to develop a technical  solution. And it did have other ways that 
Mrs F could  make high value transactions. It also indicated it would be willing to look at any 
associated fees involved.
Yorkshire Bank accepted this view but Mrs H didnt. 
Mr H said that when  Yorkshire Bank advised  its customers of the new internet banking 
platform it didnt advise  a new token was necessary to enable higher value transaction. He 
said it took numerous calls and Yorkshire  Bank advised him that the problem would be 
sorted by mid-October  but wasnt. He feels no progress has been made and finds  the 
standard answers being given by Yorkshire  Bank for example  the technical team are 
working hard to fix the problem  are unacceptable He feels  Yorkshire Bank  should  respect  
its loyal customers and tell its current platform to resolve the problem.
Finally Mr H says they have spent several  hours  on the telephone with no sign of a practical 
solution. He doesnt agree that there  are other  reasonable  alternative  ways to make  high 
value transactions  without  a cost/reduced security risk or the inconvenience  of travelling to a 
branch. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H feels strongly  about this and I do appreciate this so I realise she is going  to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
Theres no dispute that Yorkshire  Bank  changed its internet platform  in September  2018. 
And that as a result Mrs H cant make high value transactions on her current account as her 
internet browser isnt compatible with the one the bank is using.
Ref: DRN20973572Mrs H has said she would  like Yorkshires internet platform to be compatible  with a range of 
browsers including theirs. Unfortunately what browser Yorkshire Bank uses  is a commercial  
decision it is entitled to take and not one we can interfere with. Yorkshire Bank  has said its 
working to fix the problem  so that Mrs H can fully use its new platform. I appreciate Mrs H 
feels no progress has been  made  on this. But that is not something  I can influence. I do think  
Yorkshire Bank is aware of the matter and is trying to find a solution. But I think  Mrs H has to 
accept that might take some time. And it may not be able to find a solution.
Mrs H says that Yorkshire Bank didnt advise her that she would need  a new token  to be 
able to make  high value transactions. I can see from one of the standard letters Yorkshire 
Bank sent out to customers it did advise that the existing security token would be switched 
off. So although  it didnt make it clear  a new one would be needed it was clear that the old 
one wouldnt  work. 
It did suggest using  the mobile app to make  payments. I appreciate  Mrs H doesnt want  to do 
this but the letter also gave a phone number to call to discuss other ways of making 
payments. I appreciate  the letter didnt cover  details such  as the need for a new token. But I 
think there is a limit as to the level of detail  that can be covered in such  letters. I think it was 
reasonable to offer a phone number to discuss alternative payment options.
Mrs H says she doesnt feel the alternative ways of making high value  transactions are 
reasonable alternative from a cost, security or convenience point  of view. I have seen 
Mrs Hs bank statements from August to December 2018. And I can that she has made a 
number of high value transactions i.e. £500 or more  so this is a facility that Mrs H uses.
Yorkshire Bank has explained  that Mrs H can still make transactions  up to £500  each  with a 
daily maximum of £1,000. From what I have  seen of her bank statements most, but not all, of 
her transactions are within these limits. There is also a 24 hour telephone banking  service 
Mrs H can use. And Yorkshire  Bank has said if she needs to make payments  over £5,000 
and uses its CHAPS service it will consider refunding its £25 fee until the problem with the 
online platform is resolved. I appreciate that these methods might not be ones Mrs H wishes  
to use but they are available. And I think Yorkshire Bank has been reasonable in suggesting 
it would  consider refunding CHAPS fees if Mrs H uses this service.
Mrs H has said she has found standard letters from the bank saying  it is working to fix the 
problem are unacceptable. I can appreciate her frustration. But I am not sure what else the 
bank could have  said in the circumstances.
Finally Mrs H has asked for compensation for the time and inconvenience. I appreciate  
Mrs H has been put to some inconvenience. And she, and Mr H, on her behalf have made a 
number of phone calls to Yorkshire Bank. Thats unfortunate but when something isnt right it 
inevitably does mean some time and effort will be spent is taken in dealing with an issue.  But 
that doesnt always mean that financial compensation is appropriate.
Yorkshire Bank doesnt feel the amount of time Mr and Mrs H have been in contact is 
excessive. I have looked at its call log and I can see Mr and Mrs H made a number of calls 
lasting a total of around three  hours.  Yorkshire  Bank has apologised to Mrs H for the 
inconvenience which I think  is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN20973573my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
Mrs H, to accept  or reject  my decision before  11 March 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097357