K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Ms W in 2002. I can see 
the application form contains a section about  PPI. I note a box has been marked with a tick 
to add PPI to the account. There is a separate box which  could have been marked with a tick 
to decline PPI but this was left blank. 
The application form was most likely completed  during  a meeting at a branch. Its not clear  
who completed the application  form which has been  filled in by hand. But the form contains  
details of Ms Ws circumstances  at the time.  So I think the form was likely completed during 
a discussion and passed to Ms W to check and sign. I think its likely the PPI was discussed 
and accepted by Ms W during this conversation. 
I also note the PPI remained on the account for three years and the premiums would have 
appeared on Ms Ws monthly  statements. If Ms W had not agreed to the PPI, or didnt  want  
it, Id expect her to have  questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not see any evidence that 
she did so.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. 
Ms W has told us shed  receive full sick pay from her employer for up to six months  followed 
by half pay for a further six months.  But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Ms W couldnt  work. And the benefit  would  be paid in addition to any sick pay. So I 
still think Ms W would  find the policy useful if she became unwell, particularly if she was 
unable to work for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Ms W had lost her job. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Ms W off taking 
out the cover. 
Ref: DRN25506792This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms W paid for it. But Halifax has already paid Ms W back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2550679