K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mr M (who are mother  and son) have complained about irresponsible  lending by 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) in relation to a mortgage taken out in March 2008  
and a further advance taken out in September 2008. They are asking Halifax  to pay 
compensation.
Mrs B and Mr M are represented in the complaint by a family member,  but for the sake of 
clarity, I will refer to Mrs B and Mr M throughout.
background
In April 2008 Mrs B and Mr M purchased a property with the assistance of a mortgage from 
Halifax. They paid £55,500 for the property, which was valued  at £80,000. The mortgage  
was arranged for them by an independent mortgage  broker,  who advised  Mrs B and Mr M 
about the suitability of the mortgage.  
The mortgage offer dated 13 March 2008 shows that Mrs B and Mr M borrowed the full 
purchase price of £55,500,  plus £799  in fees,  making a total of £56,299, on a capital 
repayment basis over a term of 25 years. The mortgage was on a two-year fixed  rate until 30 
April 2010, after which it reverted to Halifaxs  standard variable rate (SVR).
On 12 September  2008 Halifax issued an offer of further advance, on a non-advised basis. 
This was for an additional loan of £12,550, plus £349 in fees. All but £91 of the loan was at 
Halifaxs SVR and was on a capital repayment basis and was also over a term of 25 years.
Mrs B and Mr M have now complained that these loans were mis-sold and that Halifax  
should never have  agreed to lend to them.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. The bank said that it hadnt  sold the first mortgage, as 
this was arranged  through  Mrs B and Mr Ms own independent financial adviser. Halifax said 
that it didnt hold any information  from the time of the application, but the bank  didnt think it 
had done anything wrong in relation to the main  mortgage.
With regard to the further advance, Halifax provided details of the application. The bank was 
satisfied that Mrs B and Mr M had met its lending  criteria.
Mrs B and Mr M didnt agree and brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. The investigators who looked at the complaint didnt think it should be upheld.  
Mrs B and Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary they say:
the details  about the income  recorded  by Halifax is incorrect because Mrs B and Mr M 
are both on benefits;
Mrs Bs first language  is not English and she could not have understood  the paperwork;
Halifax failed to assess  affordability  of the mortgage and further advance;
Halifax assessed the application  only against the value of the property rather  than Mrs B 
and Mr Ms income  and expenditure;
Mrs B and Mr M are vulnerable people and have never worked;
they feel the complaint hasnt been dealt with by investigators who have  the right 
expertise, knowledge  and understanding of the complaint.
Ref: DRN20840582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events giving rise to this complaint took place more than 12 years ago. The original  
mortgage was sold via a broker. I understand the broker is no longer in business and that 
Mrs B and Mr M have been  given  details of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme  
(FSCS) so they can raise  a complaint of mis-sale of the mortgage.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I have considered the evidence that is 
available and from that I have decided, on the balance of probabilities, what I think  is likely to 
have happened.
Main mortgage  from March 2008:  Halifax has not retained the information  compiled by the 
broker about Mrs B and Mr Ms finances in relation to the main mortgage. There is nothing 
sinister about this. Halifax has changed its computer  systems at least once since  2008, and 
information submitted  by an intermediary might not have been retained. There is no 
requirement for Halifax to retain data for more than six years.
It was the brokers responsibility at the time of the initial mortgage to verify  Mrs B and Mr Ms 
income and to assess affordability  before  submitting the application  to Halifax. There  was no 
requirement for Halifax to duplicate this by asking for the same  information again from Mrs B 
and Mr M. 
Im satisfied that Halifax was entitled  to treat the information  the broker  provided as being  
truthful and accurate. If Halifax was told something  by the broker which  did not accurately 
reflect Mrs B and Mr Ms circumstances,  I dont hold Halifax responsible  for that. Halifaxs 
role was to consider whether  the application met its lending criteria,  based on the information  
which it had accepted in good  faith as being accurate.
Halifax does have on record,  however, detailed information about Mrs B and Mr Ms finances  
when they applied for the further  advance.  Halifax has explained that, because Mrs B and 
Mr M had only recently taken out the mortgage, at the time of the further  advance  six months  
later, it didnt  need to undertake any additional income verification.
In the circumstances, I think it is more likely than not  given that the further advance  was a 
non-advised sale  that that the information  held by Halifax in respect  of the further advance 
Ref: DRN20840583is the same  information  provided by Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage broker when they had 
applied for the main  mortgage six months  earlier. Given this, I will treat the information on 
record in September  2008 as most likely  to have been the information Halifax used to 
assess the mortgage application  in March 2008.
This shows that Halifax was told that Mrs B and Mr M had a joint gross  annual income of 
£33,000, giving a gross  monthly income of £2,750.  They  were  buying a property for £55,500. 
A general  rule of thumb is that 3 x gross  income is considered affordable.  In 2008,  before the 
financial crash, some  lenders were allowing up to 5 x gross income. But Mrs B and Mr M 
were only borrowing about 1.7 x gross  income, with a monthly  repayment  of just over £350.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the mortgage  was well within  the parameters of 
affordability in terms of Mrs B and Mr Ms gross income. The monthly  repayment  of £350 
was also affordable, based on a gross income  of £2,750.
The loan to value  (LTV) ratio was under 70%, again  well within  acceptable parameters.
Overall, I do not find that Halifax  acted  irresponsibly  when it agreed to the lending  on the 
main mortgage. 
Further advance: In September 2008 Mrs B and Mr M applied  for a further advance of 
£12,550 to carry  out home improvements. Halifax has been able to provide its documents  
from the time. The records confirmed there was no verification of income required, but 
shows joint income as £33,000, or £2,750 gross per month. There were modest unsecured  
credit commitments  for a loan and a credit  card.
The records  also referred to Mrs B having  two private pensions, that she had been  self-
employed and had owned a retail shop (which  is named). This information  could  only have 
come either from Mrs B and Mr M or (more likely) from their mortgage broker. I am told that 
this detail about Mrs B is incorrect and that Mrs B had never worked outside the home.  But 
as I said above,  Halifax was entitled  to accept what it had been told in good faith as being  
true and accurate.
The lending calculations show that the maximum Halifax could lend Mrs B and Mr M was 
£83,412, so the main  mortgage + further  advance totalling £69,198 (including fees) was 
within those parameters.
The total monthly repayment  of the main  mortgage and further advance was £441.18. I see 
that Halifax carried out two stress tests, calculating what the monthly repayment would be if 
all borrowing was on SVR (£485.89) and SVR + 1% (£529.84).  
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Halifax properly assessed affordability of the 
further advance   not just as a standalone commitment, but overall as part of the whole  
mortgage borrowing, and by applying two stress tests.
In all the circumstances, I do not think Halifax acted irresponsibly  in agreeing  to the further 
advance, taking into account  the information  provided  presumably by Mrs B and Mr Ms 
mortgage broker  about their circumstances.
Ive take note of the points that Mrs B and Mr M were vulnerable customers. But for the main 
mortgage, Halifax had no direct contact with them  nor was it required to, given that this 
Ref: DRN20840584was a broker application. If the broker had had any concerns about Mrs B and Mr Ms 
capacity to understand the transaction, it was his responsibility to address this. 
I also note the point that Mrs Bs first language is not English. But I am also told that the 
broker was bi-lingual.  The argument has been  put forward that the broker misrepresented  
the terms of the mortgage to Mrs B and Mr M. If thats the case, then that is something  they 
can take up with the FSCS. Whatever  the broker discussed with Mrs B and Mr M is outside 
the scope of this complaint against  Halifax.
As for the further  advance, I am told there  was a telephone interview.  Halifax didnt solicit the 
further advance   it was actively applied for by Mrs B and Mr M. Its not recorded who 
Halifax spoke to, but if there had been  concerns about a lack of understanding or mental 
capacity of the applicants, I think this would  have been noted  and the application would not 
have proceeded.  It is therefore reasonable to conclude that there  was nothing in that 
interview which would,  or should, have alerted Halifax to any concerns that Mrs B and Mr M 
might not have understood the nature of the application.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mrs B and Mr M were hoping  for. Ive taken note of 
everything theyve said but, after careful  consideration of all the evidence, Im satisfied that 
Halifax did not act irresponsibly, either  in relation to the main  mortgage, or the further 
advance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 December 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2084058