K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Stagemount Limited,  trading as Quid Market,  gave him loans he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr W took out the following loans with Quid Market:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
12 May 2014 225 30 May 2014
21 June 2014 300 30 June 2014
33 July 2014 300 31 July 2014
42 August 2014 375 5 August 2014
59 September 2014 300 11 September 2014
Mr W says that Quid Market didnt carry out appropriate checks and that he couldnt  afford  to 
repay the loans.  He wants a refund of interest  and charges, interest  on the refund and 
compensation for his stress and inconvenience. 
Our adjudicator thought that Quid Markets checks were sufficient before loans one and two 
but that it should have done more before loan three  onwards. But the adjudicator said that 
proportionate checks before loans three  and four would have shown  that Mr W could afford 
to repay  them.  In relation to loan five, the adjudicator said that, as Mr W settled the loan 
early and paid no interest,  Quid Market  didnt need  to do anything  to put matters right. 
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said Quid Market  hadnt done enough to check  
his financial position.  Mr W said that it should  have asked for his bank statements that would 
have shown that he was gambling  excessively and had other borrowing. He said that it was 
irresponsible to lend to him at the time, irrespective of what he said about  his expenditure. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr W, Quid Market  had to check each time that he could afford to 
make the repayments.  The checks it did had to be proportionate. Whats proportionate 
depends on things  like the size of the loan repayments and the information  Quid  Market had 
about Mr W. Theres no set list of the checks a lender should carry out. 
Before agreeing to loan one, Quid Market asked Mr W about his monthly net and disposable  
income, which it recorded as £2,100 and £1,400 respectively. It also carried out employment 
and credit checks.
Ref: DRN22901032The checks  Quid Market carried out before  loans  one and two were  proportionate. That was 
the beginning of its lending relationship with Mr W and, based on the information it had, it 
appeared that he could afford  to repay  those loans. There was nothing to indicate  that 
Quid Market should  have done  anything  more at that stage. 
I think that before loans  three and four, proportionate  checks would have included asking 
Mr W not only about his net and disposable  income  but also about any other short-term 
borrowing. Thats because a pattern of borrowing was emerging which suggested that Mr W 
may becoming reliant on this sort of borrowing. 
I cant see that Quid Market asked Mr W directly about other short-term borrowing but Ive 
seen that it looked at the results of its credit search,  which didnt suggest that other 
short-term borrowing was a concern. In any event, based on what  Ive seen, even  if 
Quid Market had asked  Mr W about his other short-term  borrowing before loans three  and 
four, it would have  concluded that he could afford to repay those loans. 
By loan five, Mr Ws reliance on short-term borrowing  was established. In those 
circumstances, proportionate checks are likely to have given a much fuller picture of his 
financial position. I think proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Quid  Market  took 
steps to verify the information  Mr W provided about his financial situation.  But I dont think 
that its failure to do that here alters the outcome. Thats  because  Mr W cancelled loan five 
and repaid the principal; he didnt pay any interest.  So, even though Quid  Market  didnt carry 
out proportionate checks before loan five, it didnt cause  Mr W any loss. 
I appreciate that Mr W says that Quid Market should have asked for his bank statements at 
an early stage. Im afraid I dont agree that it was required to do that before loans one to 
four. There  was nothing  to alert Quid Market to Mr Ws gambling. Before loan five, 
Quid Market should  have verified what Mr W said but didnt do so. But in the particular 
circumstances here,  that didnt cause Mr W any loss, as he cancelled  the loan and didnt 
repay any interest. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2290103