K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  through  a total mortgage protection policy  
(TMPP).
background
In 2006, at a meeting with the bank, Mr and Mrs D took out a further advance  on their 
mortgage. They also took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage  repayments in the event 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment. They were covered equally under the policy  for PPI. 
TMPP was a package  of different types  of insurance, including mortgage  repayment cover,  
which is a form of PPI. Mr and Mrs D also took out critical illness  and life cover. Im just 
dealing with the PPI part of their policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  their complaint. Mr and Mrs Ds complaint comes  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs D took out the insurance. Ive 
taken into account  what they remember. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them  to 
recall exactly what  was discussed at the time,  given  the time that has passed.  This means  
that what Mr and Mrs D say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their 
complaint. I must look at the available information  and take into account the wider 
circumstances to decide what most likely  happened, based on whats available.  I have to be 
impartial. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint Id have  to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  
their consent. But I cant fairly  say that based on the information Ive got, and what we know  
about Bank of Scotlands sales processes around  that time. 
Ive seen their original mortgage  paperwork. They said they didnt want  PPI.  So, I think  they 
probably wouldve  understood  that it wasnt necessary to take PPI when they took out the 
further advance.  
When they took out the further advance,  they also decided  to take out critical illness and life 
cover. This leads  me to believe that more likely than not there was a conversation  about PPI 
and they opted take out the insurances  that best met their needs.
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mr and Mrs D werent given enough 
information about the optional nature  of PPI to make  an informed choice  that they wanted it. 
Ref: DRN25552882On balance, I think its just as likely that Mr and Mrs D was persuaded of the need  to protect 
their home by taking  out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy. 
The policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs D. So Bank of Scotland had to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for them, as well as giving  them  information  that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that they could make an informed  choice  about whether the policy  was right 
for them and they wanted to buy it. 
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
they appeared eligible  to take out the cover.
they both wouldve  got up to 12 months  worth of benefits through  their same  public  
sector employer if they were off work sick. They were eligible for redundancy pay too. 
But I still think TMPP couldve provided  them with useful protection.  It wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per successful  claim.  They couldve made repeated  claims 
under the policy.  So TMPP gave them long term protection  for their mortgage, 
protecting their home. It wouldve allowed them to use their work  benefits to meet 
their other household  expenses and paid their mortgage; which it might  have been 
difficult for them to do if one of them wasnt working. 
there were some things  the policy didnt cover. I cant see that they were  affected by 
these. So, I dont  think having more information  about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs D paid a monthly premium for TMPP.  They  didnt have to pay interest on 
the premium and couldve stopped the policy at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant see that it was unaffordable.  
I dont know what they were told about the costs at the time they took out the policy 
in the bank. Its possible the costs  couldve been  made clearer  to at the time. But, I 
dont think having clearer information  wouldve changed their decision as the TMPP 
seemed affordable and it was suitable for their needs. 
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided  them with useful protection  to safeguard 
their home.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  But, I 
think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even if they had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave them useful protection  in their circumstances. I 
cant see that theyve  lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland may have done 
wrong.
Ref: DRN25552883my final decision 
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2555288