K820x#14complaint
Mr H says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  on a credit  card.
Mr H has been represented throughout his complaint.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 27 August 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out, in full, the background  to this complaint. 
Broadly summarised it explained  why I thought the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  meaning 
RBS did not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But RBS did have to pay 
back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. And finally that I thought it was fair for RBS to use Mr Hs PPI commission  
compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid when Mr Hs trust deed came  to 
an end.
Neither party responded with anything further for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider in regards to what  I set out in my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from those findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and within my provisional decision,  the PPI policy  wasnt mis-
sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have  to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
And its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Hs PPI commission compensation 
to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid when Mr Hs trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28068252Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr H says The Royal  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  on a credit card.
Mr H has been represented  throughout his complaint.
background
Mr H bought  the policy  in 1998, at the same time as applying for a credit card through  a postal 
application. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
I am of the provisional  opinion that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think  RBS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. Ive 
seen a copy  of Mr Hs application from 1998 and he had to actively tick to take out PPI. 
Mr H applied for the credit card and PPI through a postal application. Ive seen nothing  to suggest  
RBS assessed Mr Hs individual  needs  such as his employee benefits  and made  a formal 
recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely  that it did. This meant it didnt  have to check  if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions  and 
limitations would have  made any difference to Mr Hs decision to take out PPI. 
Ref: DRN28068253Mr H told us he received  a good level of sick pay from his employer  if he was off work due to an 
accident or sickness and that he had some  savings  that he could have used to meet his repayments. 
So Mr H says he didnt need  the PPI.
In the event  of a successful claim the PPI would  have  covered 10% of the outstanding balance  for up 
to 12 months  per claim if Mr H was off work because of an accident or sickness or if he became 
unemployed. It would have paid out for longer than Mr Hs sick pay lasted, and it would have paid out 
in addition to his sick pay. So I think the policy could have been of use to him.
I appreciate that Mr H had some savings, but having the insurance meant that he wouldnt  have had 
to use his savings. 
I accept that its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But as I said he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
All things considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the PPI policy 
and Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
what else have I considered?
RBS has used  the compensation  it offered, as explained above, to reduce an amount outstanding  on 
the credit card that it says Mr H hadnt fully repaid.
While the complaint was with our service  it came to light that Mr H had granted  a trust deed in 
February 2005  which became a protected  trust deed   for his creditors.
A protected trust deed  is an alternative to bankruptcy. It is a legally  binding agreement  between  a 
consumer and his creditors, which is administered  by a trustee. 
Mr H was discharged from his trust deed in October 2007.
is it fair for RBS to use the PPI commission compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount owed on 
Mr Hs credit card  despite Mr H being discharged  from his protected trust deed?
There have been some court  cases about  to whom  PPI compensation  should be paid when a 
consumer has been discharged  from a protected trust deed. 
In July 2018,  the Supreme  Court issued a judgment looking at what  should  happen  to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed  completed.  The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018]  UKSC  54.
In that case,  the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustee  for the 
benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Ref: DRN28068254There is another case that is also relevant; this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  
SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly, the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt 
from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this has been 
appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have  taken into account,  the relevant law. But I must apply  an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce  the money  Mr H borrowed 
and didnt fully repay.
At the time Mr H granted a trust deed  the outstanding balance on his credit card was around 
£10,000. When  Mr H was discharged from the protected trust deed in 2007 the evidence suggests a 
final dividend was paid to RBS of around £3,000. So there was an outstanding  balance  of around 
£7,000 that Mr H wont now ever have to repay.
The fact that Mr H entered into a protected trust deed  and was discharged  from his debt when his 
trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think  it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay back the PPI commission compensation  to Mr H, when Mr 
H doesnt now have to pay back the many thousands of pounds  he borrowed. Its hard to see how 
anyone would  think it would  be fair.
So it follows that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI commission  compensation to reduce the 
outstanding balance that is owed on the credit  card account.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr 
Hs PPI commission compensation to reduce the monies  owed and left unpaid when  Mr Hs trust deed  
came to an end.
I invite both parties to respond by the deadline set out at the start of this provisional decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2806825