K820x#14Complaint
Miss T has complained about the way the Automobile Association Insurance  Services 
Limited handled her claim under her car hire policy.
background
Miss T was involved in an accident on 2 February 2018. Whilst her motor  insurer  was 
deciding whether her car was repairable or not, Miss T made a claim under this policy  in 
order to hire a car. 
The policy provided  for car hire for 21 days and the AA were  merely the administrators  of 
this policy  rather than the underwriters. 
The AA tried to arrange  the hire car so it could be picked up close  to Miss T. But there were 
problems with the car hire company, so it arranged for her to the car up some way away. 
However then it was discovered that depot couldnt  do so, meaning  Miss T didnt get her hire 
car until the next day.
Miss T also complained that an AA adviser didnt respond to her emails and didnt progress 
her claim under  her motor policy.
The AA felt some of its service could  have been  better and paid Miss T £100  compensation. 
Miss T remained  dissatisfied, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought 
the AA had done enough to put things right and didnt think it needed  to do anything  more.
Miss T disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First I am merely dealing  with the AA in arranging the hire car under Miss Ts policy.  Im not 
dealing with the terms of Miss Ts car hire policy as the AA is not the underwriter of this 
policy. Nor am I dealing  with the car hire provider, as they are a separate  entity and not part 
of the AA. Further Miss Ts complaint against her motor insurer dealing  with her claim for the 
damage to her car has already been dealt with by another ombudsman who had already 
issued a final decision. 
Its clear to me that obviously Miss T was deeply distressed she had been  involved in an 
accident. That in itself is very inconvenient  and frightening.  Its also very inconvenient to 
suddenly be without a car. 
However none of this was the fault of the AA. Its role was simply to arrange a hire car under 
this policy  for Miss T. It did do this but unfortunately the hire company were less than 
efficient in locating the right place for Miss T to pick up her car. The AA apologised for the 
run around Miss T endured over this and I think thats sufficient.  
Its also right that her emails  to the AA adviser  should have been responded to as it was 
obvious Miss T was a little confused as to which entity were dealing with her motor claim.
Ref: DRN23513892The AA did assist Miss Ts motor insurer as best it could, but it wasnt  Miss Ts motor  
insurer.
The AA considered its service to Miss T could  have been a little better  and it paid her £100  
compensation. I consider that amount is reasonable considering  much  of Miss Ts 
complaints concerned her motor insurer, the car hire company and how this policy operated,  
none of for which the AA is responsible.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351389