K821x#15complaint
Miss G has complained that UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) recovery  firm damaged her car 
when she called for roadside  assistance under her motor breakdown  policy.  Miss G has also 
complained about delay  and poor service  she received from the recovery firm and UKI. 
background
Miss G has breakdown assistance underwritten by UKI. The policy  is administered  by a 
recovery firm who uses local breakdown  firms to repair or recover vehicles.  
Miss G called the recovery firm for help when her car broke down at about 3.15pm on 
Saturday 4 August 2018, when it suffered a failed  ball joint. She said she explained that her 
car was immobile in the middle of the road. And that she was travelling with passengers to 
visit a relative in hospital who had been  taken ill. 
Miss G said she told the recovery firm that recovery was a priority but received a text 
message advising  that a callout would be in two hours. She said she called the recovery firm 
again and explained the dangerous  position they were in.
Miss G said a mechanic  from the breakdown firm arrived after 5pm.  She said the mechanic 
was concerned about their safety  and told her that a low loader should  have been sent to 
recover her car. She said he agreed to drag her car to the side of the road, but he advised 
her that this would damage her car but said this was preferable to waiting for recovery.  
Miss G said her car was dragged to the roadside and the mechanic gave her a lift home.
Miss G said she then continued her journey to hospital and so was away  when her car was 
returned. She said shed told the recovery firm to leave her car in front of her garage,  but she 
got a call at about 9.30pm from the recovery driver  who said he didnt have any instructions. 
She said when she returned home the next day, she found  her car on the road blocking a 
neighbours car. She said she then sold her car to a dealer because she couldnt pay for the 
repairs or to have the car moved  from her neighbours drive. She also said she needed to 
buy another car and resolve her finance  arrangements. She said the trader to whom she 
sold the car confirmed  there was a lot of other mechanical damage  as well as the ball joint.  
Miss G wrote  to the recovery firm on 8 August  2018  and said her previous complaint call had 
been disregarded. She said the recovery firms call handler told her that due to the severity 
of the breakdown it should have sent a low loader, not a mechanic. Miss G said that as a 
consequence the recovery firm had caused  significant damage to her car, which  was then 
uneconomic to repair. She said she wanted  compensation for the poor service and £700  for 
what the repairs would have cost. She said the recovery firm advised her to get the car 
repaired and it would  consider if the damage was as a result of the breakdown, or the 
actions of the mechanic. 
The recovery firm acknowledged that the call out was delayed as it wasnt logged as a 
priority and paid Miss G £100 compensation. But it said that it wouldnt accept liability for the 
damage as the breakdown mechanic had given her the option of either waiting for a low 
loader or moving her car. It said the mechanic  had warned Miss G that moving her car would  
cause further  damage. It said Miss G asked for her car to be moved and signed  a waiver for 
any damage that would be caused. The recovery firm said that as Miss G had been in situ 
for some time she could have waited for a low loader to arrive and move her safely.  
Ref: DRN24258912The recovery firm apologised  to Miss G for her car being returned away from her home. And 
it said it should have  opened a complaint file when  she called about what had happened.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld  in part. She didnt think UKI had to 
pay Miss G for damage to her car as there was no evidence about the damage and because 
of the waiver signed by Miss G. She thought the delays in dealing  with Miss Gs breakdown  
were avoidable  and said her car should  have  been  left at her home.  She also thought UKI 
should have logged Miss Gs complaint when she first called but said it was dealt with fairly  
and promptly afterwards.  She thought that UKI should pay Miss G further compensation of 
£100 (totalling  £200)  to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience  caused to her.
Miss G said its clear  from the breakdown recovery report that damage was caused  by the 
mechanic having  no choice  but to drag her car to the roadside due to heavy traffic.
UKI disagreed with the adjudicator about the delays. It said the time taken to respond to 
Miss Gs breakdown call had only been an hour and twenty minutes. And said the further  
time taken  to recover her car was irrelevant  as she had been given a lift onwards by the 
mechanic. UKI felt that £100 compensation was fair for the miscommunication and the errors 
made. It said Miss Gs experience would have been  the same  whether it had arranged 
recovery correctly or not. UKI requested an ombudsman  review Miss Gs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G is unhappy with the service she received from the recovery firm and the damage she 
said was caused  to her car. She is also unhappy with the way her concerns were dealt with. 
I have looked  at each of these issues and reached  the conclusion that the compensation 
recommended by the adjudicator is fair in the circumstances.  I will explain my reasons here.
Delays
The recovery firms  records show  that the recovery request was logged  as standard,  not a 
priority, at 15:27 and its mechanic was with Miss G at 16:48. It said a recovery  vehicle  was 
needed, but it said that didnt happen  until around 21.30 due to a lack of resources. 
Miss Gs policy no longer sets a response time for breakdown calls, but clearly its the 
intention to respond as soon  as possible. The wait for a response  must have been extremely  
difficult for Miss G and her passengers  as she said her car was in a dangerous situation  and 
she was trying to visit a sick relative.  UKI has apologised to Miss G for the delay and its 
mistake in not logging  her call as a priority and paid her £100  compensation.
Roadside assistance  and the damage  to Miss Gs car
In its response to Miss Gs complaint  the recovery firm said the need for a recovery vehicle 
hadnt been passed on. Its not clear if this means  Miss G didnt say a recovery  vehicle was 
needed, or there was a mistake  by the recovery firms staff. However, the recovery  firms 
notes show that Miss Gs car did need to be recovered. The notes  also state that a mechanic 
was sent instead due to lack of resources, knowing that they couldn't fix at the roadside . 
Ref: DRN24258913I think this means that the recovery firm knew that the response to Miss Gs breakdown  call 
would cause her delay and that this would put pressure  on her in a difficult  situation.
UKI said the breakdown mechanics notes show that he gave  Miss G the option to move the 
car, but with unavoidable damage, or to wait for a recovery vehicle. It said because  of her 
cars situation and her wish to continue her journey she chose  to move the car having signed  
a damage waiver. From the records, Ive seen  that Miss G signed to confirm  the following:
I am fully aware that I have been advised  not to drive the vehicle  and do so entirely at my 
own risk. And further, You have requested us to carry out this task. This may cause 
damage. We require  your signature to accept  full liability for any damage done to your 
vehicle or adjacent property. Miss G also ticked and signed further disclaimers within  the 
breakdown recovery  firms Roadside  Report.
Miss G has told our adjudicator, The mechanic who was appointed that day told me what  
the damage would  be by dragging it out of harms way. 
Miss Gs car was in the traffic flow, which she said was only able to pass  with difficulty.  And 
so, I can understand  why she felt the need to get the car off the road even though  the risk of 
further damage was clear  to her. Nevertheless, I think  the better option would have been to 
call the police for assistance and wait for the recovery vehicle. Having said this, I think its 
possible damage might have been caused in any event by her car being dragged on to the 
recovery vehicle.
Miss G said the breakdown recovery report shows that damage was caused by the 
mechanic dragging her car. In fact, the report states there is damage all over car and a 
diagram shows the damage to the bodywork, not the mechanics. Some of the damage to the 
bodywork is also evident  from the photos Miss G provided of her car.  
UKI said Miss G should get a report about  the damage to her car and it would consider if it 
should pay for the repairs. I think this was fair, but Miss G decided  to sell her car instead and 
so unfortunately  theres no evidence about the damage or what  the repairs might have cost.  
As Miss G didnt give UKI the opportunity to consider  the damage to her car, I dont think  its 
fair to require UKI to pay Miss G for what the repairs  might  have  cost.
The return  of Miss Gs car
Miss G and the recovery firm decided her car would be taken to her home with a view to it 
being taken on to a garage  of her choice  on Monday  morning. Miss G said the recovery 
driver didnt follow her instructions about where to leave her car and it was left outside  a 
neighbours drive. The recovery  firm said it had no record  of where Miss Gs car was 
dropped off, but it accepted Miss Gs assertion that it was left at the wrong  location.  
I think this was poor service and added to Miss Gs frustration  about the problems shed  
faced throughout  the day. I think it would  have been reasonable for Miss G to ask the 
recovery firm to move her car again,  but she decided to sell it instead.
The response to Miss Gs concerns
The recovery firm has apologised to Miss G for not logging  her complaint when she first 
called as it acknowledged that she was clearly dissatisfied with its service.  I can see from its 
records that it did log her complaint when she wrote a few days  later and I think that it 
Ref: DRN24258914addressed her concerns from that point onwards. I dont  think  the delay of a few days  has 
caused any detriment  to Miss G as I think UKI dealt with her complaint  promptly  after this. 
Conclusion
Ive thought about the impact on Miss G of the time taken to respond to her breakdown and 
the lack of a recovery  vehicle.  Ive also thought  about the failure  to return Miss Gs car to her 
home and the initial failure to log her complaint. From what Ive seen  Miss G received poor 
service in difficult circumstances that caused her distress and inconvenience. All in all, I think 
the £200 compensation recommended by the adjudicator is about  right for the impact on 
Miss G of the poor service she received. But I cant say that the business  should pay for 
what the repairs might have cost as theres  no evidence about  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part, 
and I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Miss G £200 compensation. This includes the 
£100 compensation that UK Insurance Limited  has already paid to Miss G.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2425891