K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that West Bromwich Building  Society refused to let her reduce  the 
mortgage rate on her interest only mortgage when she was in financial hardship  due to ill-
health.
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with West Bromwich  in 2003. Her account fell into arrears  from 
2004 onwards.
Mrs M spoke  to West Bromwich about  moving to a lower interest rate product in 2015. But 
she was told that West  Bromwich wouldnt usually consider this while  there were arrears  on 
the account.
In July 2017 Mrs M made a payment of around £10,000 to clear  the arrears  outstanding at 
the time.  And Mrs M switched to a new product  with a lower interest rate in January 2018.
Mrs M complained to West Bromwich  in 2019.  She said she was unhappy about:
the length of time it had taken to transfer  her account onto a new rate, 
the fact that the account had to be up to date for a period of time before  a new 
product switch could  be offered, and 
that her medical condition had not been taken into consideration when her account 
had been reviewed.
West Bromwich  didnt  uphold her complaint. It said, in summary:
Mrs M had contacted West Bromwich in October  2014  to confirm that she was 
struggling with the amount she had been paying  towards her arrears  and an income 
and expenditure  form was completed. This showed that the mortgage was affordable, 
along with an additional amount towards  the arrears. This arrangement was agreed 
by Mrs M in January  2015;
In August 2015 Mrs M had enquired whether a product switch  could  be considered. 
But it had confirmed  it would not normally agree a product switch whilst  the account  
was in arrears. Its policy was that a mortgage  account must be under one month in 
arrears for three months in order for a product switch to be considered.  During the 
period from August  2014 until July 2017  Mrs Ms mortgage account  was in 
substantial arrears  therefore a product switch could  not be considered;
In July 2017 the arrears on the account  were brought under one monthly repayment. 
Mrs M then contacted West Bromwich in November  2017  to enquire about  a new 
rate. A key facts illustration was signed by her in December 2017 and the product 
was switched with effect from January 2018;
Although Mrs M had been told on the phone that the period between the clearance of 
her arrears and the subsequent switch was 17 months this was incorrect. The time 
period was 5 months. Although this was longer than the three  months stated in the 
policy West Bromwich  had completed the product switch in a timely manner once 
requested;
It didnt agree that it hadnt taken account of her ill health when monitoring her 
account. It had been  in regular  contact with her regarding  her condition, her account 
had been monitored  by a specialist adviser and it had completed several  income and 
Ref: DRN28023972expenditure forms with her to ensure it had a full understanding of her current  
condition.
Our investigator didnt  feel that West Bromwich had acted unfairly  in declining Mrs Ms 
request to switch to a more preferential interest rate in 2015. He said,  in summary:
Although lenders  should act fairly towards a customer who is experiencing financial 
difficulties this doesnt mean lenders  have  to do what a borrower asks them to do;
He could see that Mrs Ms mortgage balance had been in arrears  for long periods 
since it started in December 2003 until July 2017; when Mrs M made a payment of 
around £10,000 which cleared the arrears  outstanding at the time;
Like most lenders,  West Bromwich  didnt allow rate switches to be undertaken when 
a mortgage account  was in arrears;
He accepted that West  Bromwich had schemes  available in 2015  which  would have 
resulted in Mrs M paying a lower interest  rate. But those  schemes  had an associated 
early redemption  charge (ERC).  And he didnt feel it would have been appropriate for 
Mrs M to have  switched onto a scheme  with an ERC in 2015 as had West  Bromwich  
decided to take possession of her property  which it would have been entitled  to do 
at the time  it would  likely have resulted in Mrs M paying  more;
West Bromwich  allowed Mrs M to switch onto a new preferential  interest  rate in 
January 2018.  The new scheme did have an associated ERC.  But at the time Mrs M 
reapplied to switch  rates she was no longer in mortgage arrears. This meant  there 
was no valid reason for West  Bromwich to have declined  her request;
It is for a borrower to ask the lender  if they want to switch  rates.  So although Mrs M 
cleared her arrears  in July 2017 it wasnt for West Bromwich to have checked 
whether she wanted to switch rates.
Mrs Ms mortgage term was due to end in December 2021.  West Bromwich wrote to 
her in December 2016  to remind  her of her responsibility to ensure she would repay 
the outstanding balance  before  or on the end of the term. Mrs M responded to 
confirm that her son would be purchasing the property.
Mrs M doesnt  agree with our investigators  view, and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She says that West Bromwich hasnt treated her fairly as a 
vulnerable customer.  In particular, she thinks it unlikely  that West Bromwich  would have 
begun possession proceedings after allowing her arrears to remain  at that level for so long a 
period of time. So she doesnt think it reasonable that West Bromwich  should  have used the 
fact she was in arrears as the basis for declining  her 2015 rate switch  application. And she 
says West Bromwich had allowed her a previous rate switch when she was in arrears. So 
she feels they should have agreed to do so again  in 2015.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has raised a number of issues in response  to our investigators view.  Ive carefully 
considered everything  she has to say but have  concentrated my decision on those  issues  
that I find to be central to her complaint.
I fully appreciate that Mrs M has been suffering from ill-health and financial difficulties for 
some time. She has my sympathy. And I also appreciate that Mrs M feels  that West 
Bromwich should have recognised the difficulties she was facing by moving her to a lower 
Ref: DRN28023973interest rate sooner.  But, although Ive carefully  considered what  Mrs M has to say on this 
issue, I dont agree. I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, so Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision. 
West Bromwich  says that its policy is that it can only consider a request to switch an account  
where mortgage repayments have been  maintained for the last 3 months  and payments are 
up to date (equal  to or less than one month payment  shortfall).  And I can see that, at the 
time Mrs M requested the switch in 2015 she didnt meet these criteria. So Im satisfied  that 
West Bromwich  has acted  in accordance with its policy.  
Our investigator has explained  that if West Bromwich had moved  Mrs M to a new product in 
2015 there would  have  most likely been  an ERC associated with the new product. A lender 
will usually incur costs on lending on a fixed rate product  and, if the product doesnt run its 
full term, it wont be able to recoup those costs. So it will usually charge an ERC to reflect 
that. There is clearly a greater risk that a borrower  might not be able to keep up with 
payments if they have  been in arrears  recently.  And if the property had to be repossessed, 
the lender would either have to absorb  the costs or ask the borrower to pay the ERC
Mrs M says that West Bromwich would have  been unlikely to take repossession action  at 
that time given the length of time her account had been in arrears.  But West Bromwich  says 
 and I accept   that repossession was always a real possibility. For example, I see from the 
contact notes for May 2015  that there  was mention  of litigation action if an arrangement was 
not agreed and maintained, and there is further mention of litigation action elsewhere in the 
contact notes.
Mrs M also says that West Bromwich allowed her to switch  products  in 2011, even though 
she was in arrears at the time. She says this means there was no reason it couldnt allow  her 
to switch in 2015. But West Bromwich  has explained  that the 2011 switch  was a one off 
concession due to her circumstances at the time. And although Im pleased  to see that West 
Bromwich treated Mrs M sympathetically in 2011  I dont  consider the fact that it granted the 
concession in 2011 meant it was then obliged to do the same again  when Mrs M requested 
a further switch in 2015.
Mrs M says that she was upset to see that the contact  note incorrectly recorded her medical  
condition at one point. But, although I appreciate that this may have been upsetting for 
Mrs M to read, Im satisfied that the error  didnt  result in West Bromwich  treating her less 
favourably. So it doesnt change my decision.
Financial businesses are required to treat customers facing financial difficulties fairly. But 
this doesnt mean that they have  to offer them particular concessions. Having reviewed all 
the information available to me Im satisfied  that West Bromwich  has taken account of 
Mrs Ms medical condition and financial situation, and has treated Mrs M fairly in the 
circumstances of this case.  And so I dont require  it do to anything further.
Ref: DRN28023974my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802397