K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains that a predecessor business  of Positive Solutions  (Financial  Services)  
Limited advised her to invest too much of her money  (£150k) in an unsuitably  risky, single 
product in 2006, particularly given she had just been  diagnosed with a terminal  illness.
background 
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 5 August  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons outlined previously I am 
satisfied this complaint  should be upheld with redress as proposed  in that decision,
I therefore instruct Positive Solutions  to compare the value of Mrs Rs investments as of 12 
June 2008 with what her initial investment of £150,000  would have been  worth if instead half 
of it had been put in a low risk investment and half kept risk-free. It should  take into account 
any withdrawals from the dates these were  made.
To do this it should use the two standard benchmarks recommended by this service: for the 
low risk investment, an equal combination of the returns as shown by the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index and the Bank  of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months 
maturity; and for the risk-free investment the BoEs bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity.
If this calculation shows a loss it must pay this loss and add 8% simple interest per annum 
from 12 June 2008 to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25701642provisional decision
complaint
Mrs R complains that a predecessor  business of Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited 
advised her to invest too much of her money (£150k)  in an unsuitably risky, single product  in 2006, 
particularly given she had just been  diagnosed  with a terminal illness.
background
At the time of advice Mrs R was 67 and retired, having  sold her business  several years earlier. She 
had a total of £160,000 in assets, being left with £10,000  in readily-available sources  after this 
investment. Her representative said she had an £80,000  outstanding mortgage,  no future income 
streams beyond  a modest pension pot and had no investment experience.
The recommendations  letter said Mrs R was looking  for a product  which would give her capital 
growth and a tax-efficient  income. She took monthly withdrawals from the investment. The 
recommended product  was described as 20% low risk, 57% medium  risk and 23% high risk. Mrs R 
surrendered the bond in September 2009.
Positive Solutions argued that this complaint  should be time-barred as Mrs R had brought  it more than 
six years after she had surrendered the bond. An ombudsman at this service did not agree, issuing a 
decision that this complaint was within  our jurisdiction.
An investigator at this service felt Mrs Rs complaint  should  be upheld.  
She felt the product posed a far greater risk than Mrs R, a first-time investor, was likely to want or 
need given her circumstances. It also exposed too much of her overall money (94%) to risk per se. 
She proposed that Positive  Solutions  pay compensation by comparing how much Mrs R might have  
got if shed invested  in a low or cautious risk product. She outlined the standard  formula this service  
recommends in these circumstances.
Positive Solutions did not agree, and said:
It did not agree with the previous figures suggesting  that Mrs R had lost roughly  £2k; instead it 
believed Mrs R had made an overall gain of £2k
This meant it met her objective of providing growth along with a regular  income
While  the growth  was modest  this occurred during a worldwide financial crisis and despite 
Mrs R surrendering the bond  a medium-term investment - after just three years
It is satisfied  that the advisor  fully explained  the various risk classifications  including the risk 
levels posed  by this bond
It believes Mrs R reinvested  the proceeds in another bond  which confirms  she was fully aware 
of the risks of this type of investment
Mrs R transferred the servicing rights to a new advisor in June 2008 and moved  a large  part 
of her money into different assets, reinforcing its view that this complaint should  be time-
barred
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I was not satisfied  that I had sufficient information about  Mrs Rs financial position in 2006, 
including her total assets  at this time and how she intended to pay off the £80,000  mortgage given 
shed invested virtually  all her capital. Nor how did she plan to give £50,000 to her offspring. I also felt 
Ref: DRN25701643the advisors notes implied that she did have  some  investment  experience and subsequently initiated 
various fund switches.
Mrs Rs representative responded, saying:
She sold her business  and retired in 2003. She repaid  her mortgage at that time and gifted 
the £50,000 referred to i.e. prior to this advice
She does  not recall  holding any previous risk-based investments  and believes her money had 
been primarily held in cash accounts
The reference to Portfolio  may be the money from the business sale, some of which  was put 
in an Icelandic  Bank which she lost when it crashed
This clarification of Mrs Rs circumstances seems to make  sense as she could not have paid off an 
outstanding mortgage or gifted £50,000 if she had invested all but £10,000. While its disappointing 
that Mrs Rs representative said something different  initially I have no reason to doubt this new 
information.
It also does  not change the fundamental  nature  of the complaint or the advice  that is being 
complained about. In this context I agree  with the investigator that this was not suitable advice, and 
for the same reasons.
Given Mrs Rs situation I think it was completely  unsuitable to recommend she invest virtually all her 
money in a risk-based product, particularly one which posed a significant  risk given its overall make-
up. In fact, I dont she should have  invested  such a large  sum in risk-based  products at all. At most, I 
think she might reasonably  have been  advised to invest half of this money  in a low risk product with 
the other half kept risk-free.
Secondly, I sought further information about the alleged  transfer to a new advisor.  There followed an 
exchange of correspondence between the parties and the new advisor to try and establish when Mrs 
R transferred the servicing rights along with if and when  this advisor offered new advice. It transpired 
that it was her advisor at Positive Solutions who moved to the business and, in effect, then provided  
whatever new advice  she received.
The bond provider  confirmed that it transferred servicing rights to the new business  on 11 June 2008. 
The new advisor said that he reviewed  Mrs Rs investments later in the year in view of the stock 
markets troubles, and recommended she move into fixed-interest assets.
However, given the available evidence, I am satisfied that Positive  Solutions responsibility for the 
2006 advice should be capped to 12 June 2008, this being the date when it appears there were  
widespread changes  to Mrs Rs bond make-up  (presumably as a result of new advice).  Therefore it 
would be the new advisors business that would be responsibility for the suitability or otherwise  of Mrs 
Rs portfolio from 12 June  including the switching that occurred on this date.
Therefore my proposed compensation will be based  on the value of Mrs Rs bond at that date, prior to 
the switches  on that date, set against how much  her initial  investment would have  been worth at this 
point if she had been  more suitably  advised. Positive Solutions  should  compare the value of Mrs Rs 
investments as of this date with what her initial investment of £150,000  would  have been worth if 
instead half of it had been put in a low risk investment  and half kept risk free. It should take into 
account withdrawals and from the dates these  were  made.
To do this it should use the two standard benchmarks recommended by this service  for low risk and 
no risk investments. These are: for low risk investments, an equal combination of the returns as 
shown by the FTSE  UK Private Investors Income  Total  Return  Index and the Bank of Englands 
bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity; and for risk-free  investments the BoEs  bonds of 12 to 17 months  
maturity.
Ref: DRN25701644If this calculation  shows a loss it must pay this loss and add 8% simple interest per annum from 12 
June 2018 to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Finally, I see no reason  why the so-called new advisor  would have reviewed the advice he had 
originally given her  and advised her that his advice  might have been unsuitable  so I dont think  
Mrs R had cause for complaint about Positive Solutions  advice at this point. I dont therefore accept  
this is a valid reason to argue that this complaint should be time-barred.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Positive Solutions to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2570164