K820x#14complaint
Mr P, through his representatives,  complains about  the advice he was given by Plan65  Ltd in 
relation to transferring his personal pension into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr Ps intention  was to invest these funds  into an overseas property which is an unregulated 
investment. He says Plan65 didnt assess the suitability and risks of the investment. 
background
Plan65 tell us Mr P was introduced to them in January 2013 from another financial advice 
company W. Plan65 say W had been advising Mr P on the purchase of an overseas 
property using his pension funds by transferring them  to a SIPP in which the overseas 
property would be held as an investment. But W had stopped trading after Mr P had agreed 
to buy the property but before the transfer had been completed. So Plan65 say it only 
advised Mr P on the transfer of his previous pension fund to a SIPP  and didnt advise on the 
underlying overseas property investment. 
Mr P tells us he first found out about the overseas investment through a different company 
C. C had arranged a will for Mr P and also asked him about his pension provisions. C sent 
Mr P information on the overseas property investment  but wasnt  a regulated financial 
advisory service. So, it introduced him to Plan65 in order to advise him on the transfer  of his 
pension into a SIPP so he could invest in the overseas property. Mr P says he doesnt recall 
the company W being involved. Although I have seen information  about Mr Ps previous 
pension being  sent to W, so they must have had his authority to do so at some  point.
In January 2013 Mr P completed  and signed a client information form for Plan65.  
The information seems  to have been  collected through  C. This recorded;
He was aged 45 and planned to retire at 65.
He was married and in good  health.
His occupation was a builder/developer and had an annual income of £70,000.
He intended  on purchasing an overseas property which  had a purchase price of 
£58,036.
He wasnt totally dependent on this pension  in retirement as he had 7 other 
properties rented out. 
He calculated this pension as being between 0%-10% of his overall wealth. 
His current pension fund was valued  at £59,816.26.
Mr P scored his own attitude  to risk as balanced (medium risk).
He had a working  practical knowledge about how investments worked  and a 
moderate amount  of experience. 
He had strong views  that he would like to be invested in bricks and mortar.  
Considering  the risk warnings given on the form in regard  to unregulated property 
investments, he was comfortable in holding a large proportion  of his pension  funds in 
an investment of that type. 
Plan65 completed an initial assessment for transferring Mr Ps pension into a SIPP.  
This recorded;
Mr P had already  signed papers to purchase  the property.
The receiving scheme had the same costs as the ceding scheme.
Mr P didnt  have any benefits  he would lose from his previous scheme.
Ref: DRN27345592Mr Ps attitude to risk was medium/High scoring  34/50 and so the investment was 
suitable given  Mr Ps attitude to risk.
 It recorded an initial rating for the transfer  as Suitable.
Plan65 say it wasnt liable for any previous  advice  Mr P had been  given on the purchase of 
the property and provided a letter Mr P had signed  to this effect.
In February 2013  Plan65 created a suitability report for Mr P regarding  transferring his 
pension to a SIPP. The report  included (amongst other things);
That Mr P required  a pension which allowed  him to purchase  a specific overseas  
property investment.
The details of Mr Ps existing pension  and the fact it wouldnt allow Mr P to hold the 
type of investment he wished to purchase.
The costs of the proposed pension plan, including annual  fees and a property 
requisition fee. It also noted  that the SIPP was more expensive  than his current plan 
or a stakeholder  pension.
Plan65s fee of £1050 plus £150  per annum for ongoing administration  and reporting. 
It said due to the nature of the investment it was unable  to apply the traditional  
growth rate assumptions and make  a comparison to Mr Ps existing pension  scheme.
The report was limited  to providing  advice on the risks and benefits of Mr Ps 
objectives and not the investment  itself.
It concluded the use of a SIPP  matched Mr Ps attitude to risk and was the best way 
to meet  his objectives. 
Mr P was comfortable in holding  all, or most of his pension in a single alternative 
investment. This meant most or all of his pension  was at risk if the investment failed 
or didnt  perform.  
The report also contained  general  risk warnings about SIPPs, as well as risks 
specific to the investment  in the overseas property.
 
Mr P accepted Plan65s recommendation  to transfer his pension  into a SIPP which  was 
subsequently used to purchase  a percentage share of an overseas investment property. 
In 2018 Mr P was contacted by his representatives and asked if he was happy with his 
pension. Mr P said, over the five years he had held the investment in his SIPP, he hadnt  
seen the returns  hed hoped for and his SIPP had stayed at the same  level of funds 
throughout this period. As Mr P was unhappy  with the advice to transfer his pension, he 
asked his representative to make  a complaint to Plan65. Plan65 didnt initially  respond to the 
complaint and so the representative brought Mr Ps complaint to us.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He said Plan65 should have advised 
Mr P that the overseas  investment wasnt suitable for him and so, shouldnt have 
recommended transferring his pension into a SIPP. He said had Plan65 done so, Mr P 
wouldnt have decided  to proceed with the investment. The investigator recommended 
Plan65 compensate  Mr P for any losses he may have suffered by transferring out of his 
original pension scheme.
In response to our investigators opinion, both Plan65 and Mr Ps representatives made  
several more points. For ease Ive summarised them  as;
Plan65s say;
No loss had been established  which is the first step of a negligence claim. 
Mr P was an experienced  investor  and owned  several investment properties.
Ref: DRN27345593If Mr P had an issue with the investment, he should have first consulted  the SIPP 
trustees.
Plan65 felt the redress suggested  would be an example of pension release  fraud.
Plan65 raised concerns around Mr Ps representatives links to other businesses.
Mr Ps representatives say;
Mr P wasnt an experienced investor  and so he should have  been  advised the 
investment wasnt suitable.
Mr P only had a small percentage share of the company  that owned the investment 
properties which also had loans and mortgages  attached to the properties.
Mr Ps income was in the £10,000 to £40,000 bracket.
Our investigator said the redress followed our usual approach and it wasnt  unusual  for us to 
uphold a case even  when a loss was yet to be calculated. If the redress showed Mr P was 
better off now, then Plan65  wouldnt be expected  to compensate him further. He said Mr P 
wasnt an experience  investor just because he owned several properties. He also said,  as 
the complaint  was against Plan65, his comments solely  related to the actions  of Plan65. 
I sent Mr P and Plan65 my provisional  decision on 26 October  2020.  I explained  that Plan65 
should have assessed the suitability of Mr Ps planned investment. But even if it had done  
so, I didnt think the recommendation to transfer  Mr Ps pension  into a SIPP  was unsuitable.  I 
also thought Mr P would  have invested anyway. Ive copied my findings  from my provisional  
decision below.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I said:
What were Plan65s responsibilities?
COBS 9.2.2R requires  a firm to obtain the information necessary about its client  to have a 
reasonable basis for believing its recommendation meets his investment objectives, that the 
client is able to bear any related investment risks and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand those risks. 
So, whilst this is essentially setting out the requirement to carry out a fact find, it requires an 
understanding of the clients objectives   and the risks related to those objectives. It means  
a firm cannot ignore  the clients intention of investing  into an unregulated or high-risk  
investment. If it doesnt consider this to be suitable in the clients  circumstances,  it should  
say so. 
In January 2013 the regulator  issued an alert which said: 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle  for investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes. 
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that 
this process means  they do not have  to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP  in the abstract. This is incorrect. For example,  where a financial adviser  
recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer out of a current  pension 
Ref: DRN27345594arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas property investment under a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the 
advice about whether  the customer should transfer  into the SIPP.  If, taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, 
including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. 
Plan65s suitability  report was completed  in February 2013  which  was around  the time of the 
alert. But even if Plan65 had not seen  the alert, it wasnt a change in regulations.  It was just 
a reminder of how advisers  were expected to act. 
So, although  Plan65 say it was only giving  advice on the SIPP,  it still needed to consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments when recommending a SIPP.  I also dont  think  they 
could have reasonably relied on Mr P already having received advice from W, as they didnt 
know what had been advised. In any case, even if Mr P had received advice from W it didnt 
absolve Plan65 from its own obligations. 
Before recommending a SIPP, Plan65  should have assessed the suitability of the investment 
and if found unsuitable for Mr P, not recommended the SIPP. 
Was the advice  suitable?
My role isnt to punish a business when  its made  an error. Its to put customers  back  into the 
position they would have  been if the correct  action had been taken. As Ive said,  Plan65 had 
a responsibility to advise Mr P on the underlying investment, which  it failed to do. So, Ive 
carefully considered  whether I think the investment was suitable for Mr P.
Plan65 sent us the client information form Mr P filled out in January 2013.  It contains 
information about his circumstances and questions around his attitude to risk. By completing  
a questionnaire Mr P gave himself an attitude  to risk score  of 26 which  showed he was a 
medium risk investor. Mr P also indicated that he had a working practical knowledge of 
investments, but he wasnt a knowledgeable and experienced investor.  In Plan65s initial 
suitability checklist, it noted  Mr Ps risk score  as 34/50 and a medium to high risk investor. 
However, I cant see how this fits in with the information contained in the client information 
form. So, I dont think Mr Ps recorded attitude to risk on the fact find matched the type of 
investment he intended  to make.  And I think this should have been evident  to Plan65 
as well.
The investment into unregulated overseas property  is a high risk and specialist investment 
which generally would only be suitable for the most experienced investors. I dont think  Mr P 
could have been classed as an experienced investor  in general terms. He didnt have any 
other pension plans or equity investments. His only other investments were  buy to let 
properties in the UK 
However, this particular investment was a hotel  development  and Mr P not only owned a 
couple of buy to let properties, but he was in the building  and property development trade. 
So, he was experienced and had expertise  in the industry, and I think  he would have known 
about the risks of investing in a property development. Whilst investing overseas carried  
different and much higher risks, Mr P told us he was aware  that there were more  risks 
involved in investing  overseas and in his own words he said he didnt go into the investment  
with his eyes closed. 
Ref: DRN27345595Plan65 highlighted in its suitability report and client information form, some of the risks 
involved in investing  in overseas property including the illiquidity of the investment, currency  
fluctuations, occupancy, political risks and local taxation. The suitability report  also noted 
that investing all or most of Mr Ps pensions funds in a single type of investment meant  that 
all or most of his pension  was at risk should  the chosen investment  fail or not perform. So, I 
think its likely Mr P would have known  about  many of the risks of investing in overseas 
property. 
I think at the time of the transfer in 2013, Mr P saw his pension as only a small part of his 
financial security and only part of his retirement provisions. Mr P told us his previous pension 
wasnt performing as well as hed hoped, and hed lost bonuses  due to the pension company 
being sold. When speaking to us, Mr P said he wanted to roll the dice and go for gold. 
So, although  the investment didnt match Mr Ps recorded attitude to risk (which I think likely 
related to his attitude to risk in general), Mr P seemed to be willing  to risk this fund, which  
only made up a small part of his overall retirement provisions, on a higher risk investment to 
take a punt on better returns.
Ive then considered  whether Mr P could tolerate losing  most or all of investment  due to his 
wealth at the time. In the client information form Mr P noted that he had 7 other  properties  
rented out. When we spoke to Mr P, he told us that at the time he had a 50% share  of a 
company which  owned  13 properties  on a buy to let basis. Mr P says the properties were  
worth around £2.2 million  in their gross value  although  there  were  loans  and mortgages  on 
some of them. Plan65s suitability report also recorded Mr P owned  7 investment properties 
worth several million pounds. We asked  Mr P for evidence of equity he held in the properties 
he owned, and the loans  secured against  them. Mr P gave us details of several properties, 
but many  of them werent in his possession at the time of sale and the value was much lower  
than several million pounds. Mr P says hes unable  to provide any documentation as he has 
since resigned from the owning company. On balance, from what  Mr P told us and what  was 
recorded at the time on the suitability  report and fact find, I think its more likely Mr P did own 
several properties worth several million pounds in 2013. This is also evident in the client 
information form where Mr P recorded that his pension  made  up only 0%-10% of his total 
worth. Mr P also recorded  his salary at £70,000 per annum.  
Given all Mr Ps personal circumstances,  I think investment in the overseas property wasnt  
inherently unsuitable for him. Plan65  didnt assess the suitability of the investment for Mr P 
as it should have done, however I dont  think  the recommendation to transfer his funds into a 
SIPP and then into an overseas property investment was unsuitable in Mr Ps 
circumstances.
Even if I thought the investment was unsuitable  for Mr P and Plan65 shouldnt  have 
recommended the transfer, I think Mr P would be in the same position  hes in now.  Ill explain 
why.
Mr P had been given  literature  by a third party about  the overseas investment  which  said he 
would be guaranteed a return  of 7% for two years  during construction of the property and he 
believed he would get a capital growth  of around 4-6%. By the time Mr P was introduced to 
Plan65 in January 2013, he had already reserved a property  and also instructed solicitors 
overseas to assist  with the purchase. So, the investment was already lined up and ready to 
go and Mr P just needed to transfer  his pension  to allow him to complete the purchase.  
I havent seen  any evidence the investment was sold to him by Plan65 or that it pressured 
him in any way to invest.
Ref: DRN27345596I think its likely, Mr P had already made up his mind to invest  in the property and wasnt  
asking for advice on the investment from Plan65   although it should have given it. Mr P had 
experience and knowledge  about  property development, and he recorded that he had a 
strong view for his pension to be invested in bricks  and mortar. So, I think its likely  Mr P 
was attracted to this investment  and thought  he understood  the risks as the investment was 
in property albeit  abroad.  He was also attracted by the returns  advertised by the third party 
and wanted control  over his investment and not be invested in standard  equity investments 
which hed been  unhappy with. 
So, on balance I think Mr P would  have still invested and the outcome  would  have been  
exactly the same even if Plan65  had recommended against the transfer. I appreciate  this will 
be disappointing for Mr P but I dont think Plan65s actions caused any potential losses.  
Therefore, Im minded to say it wouldnt be fair to uphold the complaint against them. 
For these reasons Im not intending  to request Plan65 to compensate Mr P.
the response to my provisional  decision
Plan65 accepted  my provisional findings. And Mr Ps representative  confirmed it had no 
further comments or submissions to make. So, the case has been passed back  to me to 
reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Neither side have  provided  me with any further comments or submissions. That means I 
have no reason to depart  from the findings Ive already  reached  in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
my final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2734559