K822xcomplaint
Mr G is complaining about the amount  Insurance Factory Ltd (IF) is charging  him after he 
cancelled his car insurance policy. 
background
In July 2017 Mr G took out a classic car insurance policy through IF  a broker.  In June 2016  
IF wrote to Mr G saying the policy  would renew in July 2018. After the policy  renewed,  IF 
wrote to Mr G asking  him to sign and send back the proposal form and provide evidence  of 
where the car was parked.
Mr G returned the forms and said that the car was parked off the road. IF responded and 
asked for a photograph of the car on the driveway, which Mr G provided. IF sent the photo to 
the insurer who thought that the car was modified. And it asked IF to query with Mr G what 
modifications were on the car. Mr G responded to say that the car was 39 years old, so he 
didnt know what was different on the car from when  it was first built and he asked for a list of 
modifications and he would look to see what was on his car. The insurer then advised IF that 
it thought there were  a number of modifications  to the outside of the car, but it said it couldnt  
see the inside.  So it said it wanted  Mr G to take the car to a garage to have the interior  and 
engine inspected.
Mr G responded on 30 August 2018 and said that he thought  IF was making it too difficult. 
So he said that he didnt  want the policy to renew  and he asked for a full refund. Around a 
week later,  IF emailed  Mr G to say that it hadnt had a response  on the modifications. And it 
said that, unless  it received  a fair response,  it would cancel the policy. IF then cancelled the 
policy on 20 September 2018  and it wrote to Mr G to say that he owed it £79.50.
Mr G complained and said that hed not asked for the policy  to renew,  so he doesnt  think he 
should be charged. IF said that the £79.50 was broken down as follows:
Renewal fee - £45 
Cancellation fee - £50
Premium for time on cover - £16.80
Less payment of £32.30
But IF acknowledged  that it should  have cancelled the policy  when Mr G first asked  it to do 
so. So it agreed  to waive the £50 cancellation  fee. So it said Mr G now only owed £29.50.
I issued a provisional decision and I said that I thought IFs offer was fair. And I said the 
following:
First of all, I need to explain IFs responsibility here. IF was acting as a broker.  So its 
responsibility was to arrange  the contract  of insurance for Mr G and then to carry out various 
administrative functions for the insurer. So IF was acting as the insurers  agent when 
carrying out the administrative tasks.
I can fully appreciate why Mr G was finding the situation frustrating as IF had asked him to 
provide a lot of information and hed explained to IF that he didnt know whether the car was 
modified or not, given how old it was. But, I can see that the information  Mr G was being 
asked to provide  was information the insurer  had asked IF to obtain.
Ref: DRN22506912Under the principles  of agency, the insurer can be held liable for the actions of IF, but IF 
cant be held liable  for the actions of the insurer.  As I said,  it was the insurer  who required 
Mr G to provide the information he was being asked for  including being asked to take the 
car to a garage  to be inspected. And I cant hold IF responsible for that. If Mr G is unhappy  
with what the insurer  has done, hell have to raise this separately  with the insurer.
So in this decision, I have to look at whether  IF had treated Mr G fairly in carrying  out its 
responsibilities. Ive reviewed the emails that IF sent Mr G before he asked for the policy to 
not renew. And I havent  seen anything  to show that it acted unreasonably in this respect. I 
think the tone of the emails it sent to him were  fair and I think it was clear in respect to the 
information it was asking Mr G to provide. Im also satisfied that it responded to Mr Gs 
queries fairly and reasonably and provided fair explanations to Mr Gs queries. So I dont 
think it did anything wrong before Mr G emailed  IF on 30 August 2018.
I should state that the policy was already live when Mr G emailed on 30 August 2018. So IF 
couldnt prevent  the renewal. But it should have cancelled the policy at this point as Mr G 
had asked it to. However, it didnt  do so and the policy continued until IF eventually 
cancelled the policy three weeks later.
Given, the policy had already started, Mr G was liable to pay the fees set out in the terms of 
the insurance policy. The policy sets out that Mr G would be charged  £45 to set up the policy 
and a further £50 to cancel the policy. IF was entitled to charge fees to cover  its 
administrative costs in arranging and subsequently  cancelling the policy. And Im satisfied 
that these charges are fair. The policy  also says that Mr G was required to pay for the time 
on cover  which was fair, given the insurer was covering the risk of a claim during that time. 
So I dont  think IF was unfair  in initially saying that he owed £79.50.  And Im satisfied that the 
amount it said he owed was fair in line with the terms of the contract.
I recognise that IF did cancel the policy 21 days later than it should have done. So I think 
Mr G was charged around £5 more than he should have been in the premium  due to IFs 
error. But Im also conscious  that it agreed  to waive the cancellation fee that it was entitled to 
charge to compensate Mr G for this. So I dont think it needs to waive  anything  further.
Ive thought about the adjudicators comments that the statement of fact wasnt sufficiently 
clear in saying that Mr G had disclosed that there  werent any modifications on the car. But 
Im satisfied that Mr G was asked about  modifications when he first took out the policy and 
he said there wasnt any. Ultimately, Mr G has said he wasnt aware whether there  were  any 
modifications to the car. So I dont think he would have acted differently had this been made 
clearer. Ultimately,  I think Mr G is unhappy due to the information the insurer was asking him 
to provide. And, as I said, I cant hold IF liable for this.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think IF is at fault for the policy being 
cancelled. So I cant require it to waive  any further  fees.
Both parties  said theyd  received my provisional decision, but didnt provide any further 
information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22506913As neither party has given  me anything new to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I still think IFs offer 
to waive  the £50 cancellation  fee was fair. 
my final decision
Insurance Factory  Ltd has agreed  to reduce the amount Mr G owes by £50. For the reasons 
Ive set out above, I think thats fair compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2250691