K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains on behalf of Mr T about end of contract charges when his agreement  with 
PSA Finance UK Limited ended.
background
Mrs T is unhappy  about end of contract  charges when her sons  agreement  with PSA 
Finance ended. She disputes  the charges which include the following:
£135 aborted inspection fee
£200 incomplete service history
£65 damaged alloy wheel
The inspection wans meant to take place  on 2 February 2018. Mrs T received  a call from the 
inspection agents  on 1 February  2018  in which it said it was unable  to inspect and collect the 
car without  a valid MOT certificate.  
Mrs T arranged for the car to be MOTd on 3 February 2018.  The inspection  and collection  
took place on 12 February  2018.
PSA Finance subsequently asked  Mr T to pay end of contract charges of £400.  When  Mrs T 
complained, the charge for the damaged alloy wheel was waived as a gesture of goodwill, 
leaving a balance of £135. Mrs T paid off the balance over a period of months.
Mrs T complained to this service because she was unhappy at being told so close to the 
initial inspection date that the car needed  an MOT.  She also disputes the charges for the 
missing service history and says she experienced delays in the process  of terminating the 
agreement and handing back the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and felt that the charges were  fair.
Mrs T didnt  agree. She said PSA Finance had treated her badly  when she first contacted  
them to end the agreement. She said shed told them  that her son had changed address but 
they continued to send  correspondence to his old address.  Mrs T also said that the 
dealership had told her that the car was up to date  and that all she needed to do to end the 
agreement was to contact PSA Finance and complete the necessary forms for the car to be 
collected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there was some delay in the process to end the agreement which I appreciate  
has caused Mrs T frustration. The agreement is between Mr T and PSA Finance, so initially 
PSA said it was unable  to agree anything  with Mrs T because  she wasnt  an authorised third 
party. This is why PSA Finance  kept writing to Mr T  although it accepts that it wrote  to an 
old address due to a breakdown in communication. I can see that third party  authority for 
Mrs T was provided in early January  2018 and from then on the process seems to have run 
more smoothly.
Ref: DRN26965362I appreciate that Mrs T feels  the charge for the aborted inspection  is unfair. However,  the law 
requires all vehicles over three years old to have a valid MOT. It may be the case  that the 
dealership had led Mrs T to believe that she didnt need to do anything  to the car before it 
was collected.  But this is something which Mrs T would  need to take up with the dealership   
Im unable to hold PSA responsible for any advice  given by a third party.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for the inspection company to ask for the car to be MOTd. 
It wouldnt have been possible for them to drive  the car away without one. In the 
circumstances I cant say that it was unfair of the inspection company to cancel  the initial 
inspection appointment and charge PSA.
In relation to the charges  for the missing service  history  Ive looked at the service  book and I 
can only see two stamps. The agreement between Mr T and PSA Finance was for three 
years. Servicing should be carried  out once a year or every  12,000  miles, whichever is the 
sooner. Based on this I think there should  have been three  services  carried out, but there  
were only two. So I think the charge for the missing service is fair.
The charge  for the damage to the alloy wheel has been waived so I dont need to comment  
on it.
Taking everything into account,  I think the charges are fair. I wont be asking  PSA Finance to 
do anything.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2696536