K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr M has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund 
transactions he didnt  authorise.
Miss M, Mr Ms sister, is representing the estate  in its complaint.
background
Mr M died on 25 October 2018.  The estate  raised  a complaint soon after about  transactions 
that had taken place on 24 and 25 October.  Mr M had been in a coma after an operation so 
couldnt have  made  or authorised these transactions.
Halifax didnt agree with this. Miss M brought the estates complaint to the ombudsman  
service soon after.
Miss M explained her brother had been in and out of hospital throughout 2018  with serious 
health issues. Shed been  given authority by him to be his representative whilst he was in 
hospital from June  onwards.  She was aware that Mr Ms girlfriend had been using his debit  
card and PIN and believed there  were  numerous transactions which her brother had not 
authorised. She provided us with statements showing  these. Our investigator  shared these 
with Halifax and obtained detailed authorisation data for all the transactions possible.
Our investigator believed  it was more than likely Mr M had allowed his girlfriend (who  Ill call 
Miss B) to use his debit card whilst he was in hospital. So she didnt think it would be right to 
ask Halifax to do anything  further. She also didnt think it would  be right for her to comment 
on the transactions prior to 24 October  that Miss M disputed as Halifax  had not had an 
opportunity to investigate  these.
Miss M, on the estates  behalf, strongly  disputed our investigators  view of her relationship  
with her brother. She continued to believe Miss B had used his card without consent. Shes 
asked an ombudsman to consider the estates complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion  to our investigator. I made  sure 
Halifax were made aware of this nearly  a couple  of months ago allowing them time to make  
any further comments. Weve received nothing further from them.
Ill explain  why Ive reached this conclusion.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN23940482The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other  circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here.  So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting  someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Halifax and Miss M have told us. Im aware that Miss M has shared texts  between  
her brother and Miss B. She believes these  support  her contention that the relationship was 
rocky and her brother  wouldnt  have  allowed  his girlfriend  to use his card.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  view of 6 November 2020. I dont intend  to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which form the basis  
of my decision. 
The issues  I have considered include:
Halifax has said theyve not considered  the additional transactions  the estate  has 
disputed. However we referred  these transactions to them in February 2020. It wasnt  
until much  later they told us they didnt agree to us looking into them.  I appreciate this 
coincided with the start of the pandemic. However I think  it wouldnt take much of an 
educated guess  to realise what  outcome Halifax would have reached.  I believe theyd 
have rejected any claim by the estate. I say this because  Halifax felt even 
transactions that happened after Mr Ms death  were done with his authorisation.
Halifax also supplied us with enough evidence to consider these transactions  which 
our investigator used in coming  to her conclusion  in her view of 6 November 2020.
I believe it would be unduly  harsh  on Miss M and the estate to imply that she can 
continue to complain  about transactions with Halifax when it seems clear  what  the 
outcome of that complaint  would be.
Ive reviewed those transactions because I believe enough evidence has been 
provided by both Halifax and Miss M to enable me to come to a conclusion.
Miss M has said her brother was careful with his money. Halifaxs  evidence supports 
this. Their contact notes show direct debits  and other payments arrangements  were  
cancelled with them in March,  April and May 2018. This suggests Mr M was aware of 
the state of his finances even when he wasnt fully healthy.
This also supports  my belief Mr M knew about  a £250 deposit  paid on 27 March. And 
therefore I believe its more than probable that later payments in August and October  
were also authorised by Mr M. Im aware Miss M doesnt believe her brother would 
have authorised transactions for plastic surgery. However I think theres a likelihood  
that these were payments for cosmetic dentistry which matches  the text exchanges  
between Mr M and Miss B.
Ive also reviewed all the other  transactions that happened whilst Mr M was in 
hospital but prior to his last operation on 23 October 2018.  These were mostly trips to 
the supermarket, takeaway deliveries and small cash withdrawals. Mr M had been  
living with Miss B so I dont think its surprising that they shared household expenses. 
In any relationship theres sharing  and on occasion one person paying more  than the 
other. I can see there were  also transfers to Miss B from his account whilst she also 
made payments  into Mr Ms account. I know Miss M disputes these were  made  with 
Ref: DRN23940483her brothers permission  but I dont believe  she can be sure about that. It is possible 
that her own feelings  and relationship with Miss B have  affected her views on this.
The use thats  happening on Mr Ms account  doesnt look to me like fraud.  The 
transactions, as highlighted above, seem to be normal and household in nature. 
Miss M accepts that on occasion Mr M was making small cash  withdrawals whilst in 
hospital. But, for example, questioned why hed had have  taken out a further £20 just 
shortly after taking  out £10 on 23 June. I dont  think this is surprising.  £10 had been 
taken out at the same cash machine on 22 June, the day before, and its likely that 
Mr M realised  that a further £10 wasnt going to be enough  even whilst  he was in 
hospital.
Miss M has provided detailed  medical  notes from Mr Ms cardiologist. This confirms  
Mr Ms last operation was on 23 October.  He never regained  consciousness and died 
on 25 October.
Theres a concept  of apparent authority which relates to the Payment Services Regulations. I 
cant say for sure that Mr M definitively authorised Miss B to use his debit card but I can 
make a decision based on the balance  of probabilities. Its clear Miss B knew  Mr Ms card 
details and PIN. 
Under the PSRs,  we can consider the issue of the relationship between the account-holder, 
Mr M, and the person  making the transactions. In this case  thats Mr Ms girlfriend. I think, 
taking into account  all the circumstances of this case, Mr M authorised Miss B to use his 
debit card: to make  some transactions from his account on their behalf.  I can also see, as 
highlighted above, Mr M had made other  payments to Miss B from January 2018  onwards, 
which pre-dates the time he spent in hospital.
I dont doubt there may have been individual transactions which Mr M didnt individually  
authorise. But looking at all the transactions  overall,  I believe Mr M was giving Miss B 
apparent authority to carry out the transactions the estate  has subsequently disputed.
However any apparent  authority cannot exist when Mr M is not in a position  to make a 
decision. From the medical evidence I believe this must apply  from 23 October 2018 
onwards. There were four transactions made using Mr Ms debit card after this time (one 
cash withdrawal of £50 and three purchases  for £7.95, £12.44 and £17.45).  As Mr M didnt 
authorise these, Halifax  will need  to refund these to the estate.
I made  Halifax aware of this in December 2020. I note that our investigator had been asking 
Halifax for more than a year and a half before that on what basis they believed they had 
authority so this outcome will come as no surprise.
In line with our approach  Halifax  will also need  to add 8% simple interest a year to these 
transactions from the date they debited  Mr Ms account until the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Refund four transactions  to Mr Ms estate totalling £87.84; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to those transactions  from the date they debited 
Mr Ms account until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN23940484Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2394048