K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001 during a meeting.  Ms D says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Ms D aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Ms D applied for her card 
and PPI but Halifax has provided  a copy of the available paperwork. Ms Ds credit card 
application form had a separate section for PPI where the option  to take the policy has been  
selected. Ms D has also signed  separately  from agreeing to the card to agree to take the 
policy. With this in mind I think Halifax made  it clear  that Ms D didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms D so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Ms D 
has told us that she was entitled  to a good  level of sick pay when she took the PPI and had 
alternative insurance. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Ms Ds sick pay and for 
longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI would also have covered 
circumstances that Ms Ds alternative  insurance wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Ds circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms D back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms D.
Ref: DRN22370362my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237036