K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined a claim he made  under  a pet 
emergency insurance policy he had with it.
background
Mr Bs policy  covered his dog and cat for treatment of injuries or emergency  treatment  due to 
illness which  was needed to stabilise the condition. An injury  was defined in the policy as 
damage to one or more parts of your pets body  as a result  of one accidental cause. 
However, the policy makes it clear  that it wont cover  any claims in connection with or 
arising from any pre-existing  condition.
Mr B has told us that in April 2018  he was in his garden when  his dog came out of the house 
and he noticed  it was limping. As it was a weekend, he took it to an emergency vet (Vet 1), 
which examined it and gave painkillers and instructions  for care.  The vets notes recorded 
that there  was no known  trauma .
When the issue didnt  improve much following Vet 1s instructions,  Mr B took his dog to his 
usual vet (Vet 2).  The dog was x-rayed and examined and it was concluded it had a cruciate  
ligament rupture in his right hind leg. Vet 2 was referred  the dog to a specialist vet (Vet 3) for 
assessment and surgery to repair the ligament.  Unfortunately Vet 3 wasnt able to do the 
surgery for a few weeks and so they were referred to an alternative surgeon (Vet 4).
The surgery  was completed  by Vet 4 in May 2018 and a claim was made to UKI. UKI 
declined the claim. It explained that in the vast majority  of cases, cruciate  ligament ruptures 
are as a result of long-term degeneration whereby the fibres of the ligament weaken  over 
time, like fraying rope. It also said to rupture a heathy cruciate  ligament would require 
significant traumatic event. However,  Mr B hadnt  reported any such event had taken place 
before his dog became lame. As such,  UKI concluded the rupture was as the result of an 
underlying illness and any trauma was the straw that broke the camels  back.  
Mr B didnt accept this decision and appealed it. He provided further  comment  from two of 
the vets involved  in his dogs treatment.  
Vet 2 said during the claim process It is very obvious from the initial clinical  history  from [Vet 
1] that the cruciate rupture he suffered on the 14/4/18 (the day before he was presented  at 
[Vet 1]) was a sudden  and therefore an obvious injury. I feel there  is no question the claim 
should therefore be honoured in this case. 
Vet 4 confirmed blood tests and then further surgical examination  and repair confirmed no 
other underlying disease processes. It is my professional opinion based  on over 24 years 
experienced that this injury was caused by trauma. 
Following receipt of Vet 4s comments a member of UKIs veterinary nursing panel 
telephoned Vet 4 to discuss the case further. UKI has provided us with a recording of the 
call. The nurse  firstly explained what  the policy covered  injury  from one accidental cause. 
She then went on to say that with a cruciate  rupture they would expect it to be due to 
cruciate disease. Whether the rupture happened  acutely or there  had been  grumbling 
ongoing issued,  they would likely conclude that it would  have  ruptured  anyway, whether 
acute or chronic.  
Ref: DRN20332112The vet acknowledged  he understood that many ruptures were as a result of pre-existing 
disease, but pointed out the dog was only just over five years of age. He went on to say if 
the dog had been older and overweight,  it would likely be considered a degenerative issue.  
However, Mr Bs dog was youngish, not overweight and so he could only conclude  the dog 
must have  done  something that caused  the rupture.  He expanded that the cruciate may well 
have gone some years into the future  through degeneration or wear and tear, but it seemed 
a little too young, especially given  its weight and that it was a smallish dog, to put it down as 
degenerative or disease. He acknowledged  that there hadnt been something like a road 
traffic accident, but he thought it was obvious something had happened  a fall, slip or the 
knee was twisted when  running. The vet concluded  whether the claim was paid would come 
down to what UKI considered an injury to be.
UKI maintained its position on the claim. Unhappy with UKIs decision,  Mr B referred  the 
complaint to this service.  One of our investigators considered  the complaint and 
recommended it be upheld. He concluded  UKI should pay the claim in full plus interest  to the 
date of settlement.  In addition, he thought that, due to the worry and inconvenience Mr B had 
suffered because of the delay in the claim being settled, he should be paid £100 
compensation.
UKI didnt  accept the investigators opinion. It said that whilst it understood the treating vets 
opinion is favoured,  this opinion has to be substantiated with medical  evidence.  It didnt 
consider it was. It said the case had been  assessed  by three different veterinary nurses  and 
there was plenty of medical evidence to support its decision. It then went  on to reiterate the 
information it had previously supplied regarding cruciate ligament injuries  in dogs  most 
being due to an underlying disease process  and not primary injury.  
UKI also highlighted that there was no evidence or report of an injury. It said that to rupture a 
healthy ligament  it would require excessive force and gave examples of how such  an injury  
might happen. It was not known what happened to cause the rupture and questioned what  
could have happened within the home to exerted sufficient force to rupture the ligament. It 
thought it more likely than not that no such event happened. It highlighted that less than 1% 
of ruptured cruciate  ligament claims it sees have been caused by an injury.   It considered it 
was correct in not paying  the claim. UKI requested  the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a difficult case to decide. Having read the articles UKI highlighted in its 
correspondence with this service, I can understand its position. It does appear that in a 
significant proportion  of cases there  is an underlying problem with the ligament before  it 
ruptures. That underlying problem causes the ligament to become weakened and makes it 
susceptible to damage. In that situation  it could reasonably be argued the underlying  
problem was the real cause of the rupture  and the exclusion detailed above  could  
reasonably be applied. 
It must also be taken into account that the policy Mr B has provides quite restricted cover 
when compared  to some other types  of pet insurance policies. This policy  doesnt  cover  
general ill health, rather it only covers what are effectively  emergencies; situations where the 
Ref: DRN20332113pet needs urgent treatment for an injury or is seriously ill and needs treatment to stabilise the 
condition or risk death.
So in the circumstances of Mr Bs claim,  the policy would only cover the claim if Mr Bs dog 
ruptured the ligament because of an accident  and that accident  was the dominant cause. 
Unfortunately, in this case, we dont know what happened to the dog on the day it was found 
to be limping. The dog had been brought home  from kennels  and was alone in the house  
when it happened, his owners being in the garden at the time. So we can never know  how 
he became lame. However,  given hes a smallish dog, it doesnt seem implausible that a 
traumatic injury  could  happen in the home,  as Vet 4 said, something as simple as catching  a 
paw and twisting the leg badly when running could do it. This may be more  likely the case if 
the dog was, for example,  excited at being home after a stay in kennels because  its owner 
had been on holiday. 
Vet 4 has commented  on Mr Bs dogs condition. The dog was described as youngish, of an 
appropriate weight  for his size with no known diseases. When  repairing the ligament, the vet 
examined it and found  nothing  wrong  with it. He believes the rupture was due to a traumatic  
injury. This is clear  and compelling evidence.
I can understand UKI being reticent  to pay out on this claim when a significant  proportion of 
such ruptures are because of an underlying cause. However, by its own admission there are 
some that are simply  caused by an accidental injury. I dont think  it should automatically be 
assumed the latter  is not the case because the owner hasnt witnessed what happened. In 
the circumstances of this particular  claim, I am persuaded  that Mr Bs dogs injury was just 
that, an injury, rather than there being underlying disease or degeneration. As such,  UKI 
should pay the claim and add interest to that sum from the date it finished its further 
investigations following  receipt of Vet 4s written  comments to the date of settlement.
Our investigator recommended UKI pay Mr B £100 compensation for the upset he had 
suffered because the claim was declined. Also for the inconvenience  of having to budget  for 
paying the cost of his dogs surgery in the situation where it was anticipated the money 
would be refunded in the short-term. I agree with the investigators conclusions that 
compensation is due in this regard.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, I 
require U K Insurance Limited to:
settle Mr Bs claim. Simple  interest at 8% each year should be added from the date the 
claim reasonably should have  been paid to the date of settlement. If income tax is 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should  be provided to Mr B for 
HMRC purposes;  and
Pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience having the claim declined caused  him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2033211