K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mrs and Mr P took out in 2005. The loan was 
originally taken out with Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc, but was transferred in 2016 to a 
business Ill call E. The complaint  about  Firstplus is that it suppressed  the accrual of interest 
on the outstanding loan balance for several  years without telling Mrs and Mr P.
background
Our investigator concluded that the suppression  of interest removed the compounding effect 
of interest on interest, meaning Mrs and Mr P were  better off overall than they would  have 
been if Firstplus  hadnt done it. But he also thought  Firstplus had failed to keep Mrs and Mr P 
properly informed, and said it should  pay them compensation  (£200)  for the shock  of finding 
out late in the day that they owed  much more than theyd previously been led to believe.
Firstplus agreed to pay the recommended  award,  but Mrs and Mr P asked  for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They dont agree that the balance has been calculated  
correctly to take account of refunds due after a claim for payment protection insurance (PPI) 
in 2012.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr Ps loan is unregulated; but the business that provided it is regulated. So its 
subject to the regulators high-level  principles  on how to behave towards consumers. Two of 
those principles are relevant here:
principle six, which  requires Firstplus  to pay due regard to Mr and Mrs Ps interests and 
treat them fairly; and
principle seven, which requires  Firstplus to pay regard to Mr and Mrs Ps information 
needs and communicate  in way thats clear,  fair and not mis-leading.
Im not persuaded the decision  to suppress  interest  breached either principle. Ultimately, it 
meant Mrs and Mr P were  charged  less interest  than they would have been otherwise. But I 
appreciate the discovery of how much they still owed came as a shock to Mrs and Mr P. I 
agree that an award of compensation is warranted,  and in all the circumstances, £200 is fair.
That bring me to the ongoing  dispute  over the figures themselves. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an account checking service.  Mr P has provided his 
own calculation, prepared  with the assistance  of a consultant, of what  he thinks the interest  
balance should  be. 
My difficulty  is that Ive no reason to consider Mr Ps calculations  are any more or less 
correct than the official account statements, originally from Firstplus and latterly from E, 
which already reflect  the adjustments made in 2012  - and accepted by Mr and Mrs P at the 
time - to implement the PPI claim. 
I understand Mr P has had a recent phone conversation with E, the contents of which have 
raised fresh uncertainty about the balance as it is now. Thats not something  I can address 
here; it would  need to be the subject of a separate complaint, to E first and then to us if need  
be.
Ref: DRN21128062my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, 
I direct  Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112806