K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited unfairly  declined  her insurance 
claim for her sons damaged phone.
background
Mrs S holds gadget  insurance through her bank  account. The policy is underwritten by 
Assurant, so its responsible for her claim and complaint. 
The policy allows  four mobile phones to be registered for cover.  In November  2017,  Mrs S 
called Assurant to update  her registered  devices. She asked if she could insure her sons  
phone, which was confirmed  and he spoke to the agent and provided  the details. The 
agent advised Mrs S son to review the policy terms online, as exclusions  applied  in the 
event of a claim. 
In January 2019, Mrs S contacted Assurant to make  a claim for her sons  phone after it had 
been damaged.  However, the claim was declined because her son was 25 years  old, and 
therefore not eligible for cover. 
The policy terms explain  the policy is for:   you or a family  member who lives at the same 
address as the named  account holder (a family member is defined  as your spouse/partner  
and children under age 18, or under age 23 if in full time education, and they are living  at 
home outside of term time)  
Mrs S complained she wasnt told when she registered her childrens devices their eligibility 
depended on their ages, and she explained they wouldnt have ever been eligible.  The call 
was escalated to a manager. The manager  explained that whilst she would have expected  
Mrs S sons  age and living arrangements to have been established when  his device was 
registered, this wasnt a requirement. The manager  explained the device registration call 
would be listened  to, and the agent given feedback if Mrs S sons age wasnt  discussed; 
however, she said Assurant had met its responsibility by providing the policy  terms. 
Assurant then sent Mrs S a written response to her complaint. The letter  explained the policy  
terms had been  correctly applied, but it apologised on the basis Mrs S shouldnt  have  been  
advised it wasnt a requirement to confirm the owner  of the device. The letter also said that 
following a change in the policy terms, it does confirm the owner, and if the owner  is a 
policyholders child, it would also confirm their age. 
Mrs S remained unhappy  that Assurant  was unwilling to consider her claim,  so she referred  
her complaint to this service. Assurant has made the following points:
-Mrs S son was advised to read the policy terms during  the device registration call.
-It was Mrs S responsibility to read and understand the policy;  and its not Assurants 
process to ask a dependants age when registering a device. It said Mrs S shouldnt  
have assumed her son was covered  by the policy, and its reasonable to believe a 
policyholder would read the terms before registering devices. 
Ref: DRN29626362-The policy terms changed in February 2018, and a letter was sent to Mrs S advising 
her of the changes, which included eligibility,  so she ought  to have been aware her 
son wasnt covered by the information  she received. The onus was on Mrs S to 
review the information sent to her and raise any queries.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, and she thought it should be upheld. She 
thought Mrs S sons age ought to have been  asked during the device registration call. She 
also noted that the letter outlining the policy changes was sent a day after the call, and she 
didnt think the letter was clear in terms of a dependants eligibility. She also thought  Mrs S 
son would  have got alternative  cover  had he been  told he wasnt able to benefit from his 
mums policy. So, she concluded  Assurant should  settle the claim, under the remaining 
policy terms.
Because Assurant  disagreed with our investigator, the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Under the policy terms, Mrs S son wasnt eligible for cover. However,  in the circumstances 
of this complaint,  Im not persuaded  Assurants  decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable.
In my view, Assurant has been inconsistent about its process when  a policyholder  registers  
their childs device. But in any event, regardless of Assurants internal process, I consider it 
unreasonable for it not to discuss  eligibility when a device belonging to someone  other  than 
the policyholder  is being  added for cover.  Assurant  are considered the experts here, so Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Mrs S to rely on the information it gave her. She specifically 
asked Assurant whether  she could insure her sons phone,  therefore,  Im satisfied  it was 
reasonable for her to believe her son was eligible given it didnt advise there were age 
requirements.
Furthermore, during  the device registration  call, Assurant spoke to Mrs S son  and at that 
time, the policy only covered dependants under the age of 18, rather than up to the age of 
22. Having listened to the call, I consider the agent  ought to have reasonably doubted  the 
son was young  enough to benefit  from the policy. I accept Assurant advised him to review  
the policy terms, but this was in respect of the policy exclusions in the event  of a claim, 
rather than his eligibility  so Im not persuaded that direction was enough here.  
Assurant points towards a letter and an accompanying leaflet that was sent to Mrs S the day 
after the device  was registered. The documents outlined some  forthcoming policy  changes, 
which included changes  to eligibility.  However, Im not persuaded the letter was sufficiently 
clear to make Mrs S aware her son wasnt eligible.
Ref: DRN29626363The letter gave a summary of the changes and includes a section for whos covered. In that 
section, under the heading improved cover,  it states: Account holder, partner/spouse,  and 
dependent children living at the same address.  So, because the summary doesnt mention 
age, in my view it suggests any children living with Mrs S would  be covered. 
I appreciate the letter  also encouraged Mrs S to read the accompanying leaflet, and although 
we havent been given  a copy  of the leaflet,  on balance,  I accept  it would have contained the 
full term as outlined  in the background  section of this decision. As such, I accept had Mrs S 
reviewed the leaflet, she would have understood her son wasnt  eligible  given  he wasnt 
under the age of 18, or under the age of 23 and in full-time education. 
I also acknowledge that, under the heading todays  cover, the letter  states: Account holder 
and dependent children  under 18. Therefore,  the letter did highlight that, until the changes 
came into place in three months time, only dependants under the age of 18 were  covered. 
So, an argument could  be made  that Mrs S should have been aware from the letter  alone  
her son wasnt  currently  covered, and this ought  to have prompted her into reviewing the 
policy terms and/or leaflet. 
However, on balance,  Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to decide Mrs S ought to 
have studied the letter and leaflet  in detail. Im more  persuaded that it was reasonable for 
her to rely on the device registration  call that took place only the day before, particularly 
given the improved cover section of the letter doesnt mention age. 
Mrs S son asked relatively detailed questions during the device  registration  call, to make  
sure he was covered  for multiple scenarios.  So, like our investigator,  Im also satisfied he 
would have sought alternative  cover  elsewhere had he been  told he wasnt  eligible.
In conclusion, Im more persuaded that Assurant should have asked about Mrs S sons  age 
during the device registration call, than any of the other arguments presented.  As such,  Im 
persuaded Assurant  should deal with Mrs S claim as if her son was eligible at the time his 
phone was damaged  and it should therefore consider the claim subject to the remaining 
policy terms. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  
My final decision is Assurant General Insurance Limited should  consider Mrs S claim 
subject to the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2962636