K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act in respect of an unsatisfactory holiday.
background
Miss E booked an overseas holiday for her and her family with an online travel agent I will 
call G. She had to pay the airline for hold baggage  at the airport which  she believed was 
included in the holiday cost and when  the family arrived at the holiday destination they were 
told the hotel had been overbooked  and they were  moved to a sister hotel. Miss E has listed  
a number of faults  with the replacement hotel.
She complained during the holiday and says she was told to take it up with the tour operator 
on her return. It offered her £178.60  compensation in full and final settlement. She rejected 
this and made a chargeback claim and a section 75 claim. The bank rejected this as it 
believed the required  debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link had been  broken. It said that the 
holiday was provided  by the tour operator  and not G. It had acted as an intermediary. G said:  
For clarity, we sell products on behalf  of our suppliers and not vice versa.  They feed our site 
by automated systems  which  may not be up to date due to cached information.'
Miss E brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He agreed with the bank that the DCS link 
had been broken. He said the payment passed to the third party  booking  website.  He didnt 
consider G was the supplier as it acted as an intermediary taking the payment and 
processing the booking. The money  was then passed onto the travel operator as it was 
providing the holiday accommodation.
He also looked  at whether there  was an associate  relationship between the G and the hotel, 
but he was unable to identify such a relationship.  Miss E didnt agree and said she believed 
G was the supplier. Payment was made to it via the website  and processed  by G. She said it 
advertised the accommodation and flights and it had an associated  relationship  with 
hoteliers and airlines.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Ref: DRN20288412The key to whether  Miss E has a valid claim  lies in identifying the role of G. I have looked at 
the contract  and its website. These  identify it as an organiser  rather  than a supplier of the 
holiday. It says that once  a customer makes a booking it will contact the supplier  to see if the 
chosen holiday is available at the price  quoted.  It adds that the content of the website 
represents the holidays offered by the suppliers.
I am satisfied that the role of G is as an intermediary in organising the holiday and taking 
payment which  it passes on to the supplier. That means the DCS link is broken. I would  add 
that there  is no evidence  of an associated relationship between  the tour operator and G as 
defined in the legislation. I appreciate this may well appear to be a technicality, but as the 
law is currently  drafted  Miss E does not have  section 75 claim against the bank.  Therefore,  
while I have every sympathy with Miss E, I cannot uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept  or reject my decision before 
11 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2028841