K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Jordan & Company (Hull)  Ltd mis-sold her a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2006. For simplicity I will refer to the 
business as Jordan during this decision.
background
Mrs M took out a loan in 2006 and was sold the PPI in connection with this loan and both 
were due to run for 4 years. The policy wouldve covered Mrs M for up to 12 months per 
claim if she was off work sick or lost her job. Mrs M took out the policy on a single premium 
basis, which meant she borrowed  the cost of the premium up front and repaid it, along with 
interest, over the term.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ms complaint, Jordan  didnt agree with the adjudicator and 
the complaint  has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, I have  decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I explain why below.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on 
it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My remit is to take 
an overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I base  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I have taken into account law and regulations, regulators rules,  guidance  and standards, 
codes of practice and good industry practice  at the time the policy  was sold.
The questions I need to consider are:
whether Jordan gave Mrs M information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put her in a position where  she could make an informed choice about the 
insurance she was buying;
whether, in giving  any advice  or recommendation, Jordan took adequate steps to 
ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for Mrs Ms needs.
if there were shortcomings  in the way in which the business  sold the policy, I then 
need to consider whether Mrs M is worse off as a result;  that is, would she have 
done something different  for example not taken out the policy - if there  had been 
no shortcomings.
Ref: DRN25083292I uphold Mrs Ms complaint because I am satisfied that there were failings on the part of 
Jordan in its assessment of the suitability of its recommendation and the advice it 
presented. And but for those failings I am persuaded that Mrs M would not have taken the 
PPI.
Jordan recommended  the policy to Mrs M so it had to make  sure the policy  was suitable 
for her. I dont think it was  Ill explain why. 
Jordan has confirmed the PPI policy didnt pay a pro-rata refund in the event it was 
cancelled early. Instead, only a limited  refund  of the single premium  amount would have 
been paid, meaning that the cover  was effectively more expensive if the policy  was 
cancelled part way through the term. So Mrs M wouldnt  have  had the flexibility  to cancel 
the policy without  losing  out if, for example, she wanted to refinance the credit partway 
through the agreement.
The Demands and Needs document provided by Jordan from the time of the sale shows  
that Mrs M intended to keep her car for only three years. So it seems  that she highlighted 
to Jordan that flexibility would be important to her. The policy document  details that after 
three years of a 48 month contract  the possible rebate might only be 2% of the initial 
premium amount. Without that being adequately  explained I think  a consumer may have 
thought their rebate would be 25% of the policy.  So Jordan  sold a four year policy to Mrs M 
when she had told them she thought it most likely  that shed  only keep her car for three  
years. That exposed Mrs M to the risk that she would receive poor value from the four year 
policy if she ended the agreement early. So I think the policy  was unsuitable  for her. 
Jordan has said that the representative  would have  explained this to Mrs M, but we have 
no evidence to show whether in fact they did or not. And Jordan  has made much of the fact 
Mrs M signed  the Demands and Needs document underneath a declaration that the 
adviser had explained the product to her. Sadly  there is no evidence that has been 
provided that confirms  what would have  been explained to Mrs M at this point in the sales  
process. So its not clear  that the non-pro-rata  refund would have been brought  to her 
attention as a significant  term before she bought  the policy.  
I cant see that the agreement that Mrs M signed  made it clear how any policy refund would 
be calculated if she cancelled early.  
The PPI policy document does state that in the event of early settlement the customer, may 
be entitled to a refund of part of the premium provided no benefits have been paid under 
your policy.  The refund will be calculated  using a method that takes account of the fact that 
the amount which we may have to pay in the event  of a claim is greater towards the 
beginning of the credit  agreement  than it is towards  the end. This means that you will not 
get a proportionate  refund of the premium. 
However, this is in the middle of a policy document of small, closely-worded  text and 
appears towards the end of the policy booklet and would only be clear to someone who read 
the document closely. So I dont think this is sufficient to ensure Mrs M was fully informed  
about this term at the point of sale.
Overall, if Mrs M had clearly understood about the non-pro-rata refund at the point of sale, I 
dont think shed have  gone ahead with the policy. I also note that, as an advised  sale,  it 
was for Jordan to point out to Mrs M that the policy was unsuitable for her due to the 
Ref: DRN25083293cancellation terms. Had Jordan done so, I think Mrs M wouldve declined it. It follows  I think  
Mrs M has lost out because of what Jordan did wrong and so I uphold  this complaint.
what Jordan must do to put things right
Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been 
and she paid more  than she shouldve each month. So Mrs M needs to get back the extra 
shes paid.
So, Jordan should:
    Work out and pay Mrs M the difference between what she paid each month and 
what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
    Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs M paid each  month from when she 
paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mrs M made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, Jordan can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Jordan to take off tax from this interest.  Jordan must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Jordan & Company (Hull) Ltd to put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2508329