K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank  plc refused a transaction on his credit card because 
he had exceeded  the limit. 
background 
In November 2017 Mr Ts wife tried to make a purchase as the additional credit cardholder.  
The payment was declined. When she contacted Sainsburys Bank about this it told her that 
the payment was rejected  because  Mr T had exceeded the credit card limit. Sainsburys 
Bank said there had been numerous  transactions made  to one particular merchant that had 
taken the amount spent over the limit. 
Mr and Mrs T did not make any of the transactions, which were to overseas merchants and 
not in sterling.  Sainsburys Bank has since refunded all these amounts in full. But Mr T is 
unhappy with the way in which  it handled the disputed transactions  and thinks  its fraud 
systems should have  detected them. It also failed to reply to his letter of complaint.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that Sainsburys 
Bank had done  everything it should  have  done  by refunding  all the fraudulent transactions.
Mr T didnt  agree so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Sainsburys Bank on 4 June 2019. I summarise my findings:
I couldnt conclude  that Sainsburys Bank made  a mistake  because the transactions 
hadnt been flagged up for investigation  by the banks fraud detection systems. The 
nature of such systems and the triggers  used  to pick up payments for checking are, of 
necessity, confidential and change constantly.
The numerous transactions  were  unusual activity for Mr Ts account so I thought  
Sainsburys Bank should have looked into what had happened straight away.  It should 
have contacted Mr T if it needed  his authority to do this.
It took the bank  almost eight weeks to refund all the transactions.
The bank  cancelled  Mr Ts cards  and issued new ones, which  is what I would have 
expected it to do in the circumstances.
I was satisfied that Mr T didnt incur  any financial loss but I considered he suffered upset 
and worry during this time. He was also inconvenienced because  he wasnt  able to use 
his card as it was over the limit.
Mr T wrote to complain but Sainsburys  Bank didnt receive his letter but it did respond 
within two weeks of receiving his second  complaint.  I also thought  that Sainsburys Bank 
could have been clearer when Mr Ts wife first contacted it.
Ref: DRN27638662Whilst the steps Sainsburys Bank took to put matters right were reasonable I found that Mr 
T had suffered inconvenience for which  the bank should pay £200. I also asked the bank  to 
ensure that the fraudulent  activity wasnt reflected on Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T accepted my decision.
Sainsburys Bank responded  to say, in summary, that it couldnt investigate what had 
happened when  Mrs T contacted  it because it needed to seek Mr Ts authority to do so. But 
it couldnt tell me when  it received this. So it didnt think it was fair to suggest it caused  any 
delays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the credit  card account was in the name of Mr T and that Sainsburys Bank 
would need to check with him before it could take action but I would have expected  to do this 
very promptly given both the type of the transactions and that the account was over its limit. 
Mr Ts wife had initially called the bank on 17 November 2017 and yet Sainsburys Bank did 
not refund  the money until 8 January 2018.  
Im not persuaded by Sainsburys Banks  argument that it didnt cause  any delays. Given  the 
nature of the transactions,  which took the account over its credit  limit and its conversation 
with Mr Ts wife, I think Sainsburys  Bank  should  have  tried to contact Mr T to clarify the 
matter. I dont consider  that it did this.
Mr T sent a letter of complaint to Sainsburys Bank in early December 2017  (although  I 
accept the bank didnt receive it). He wrote  again after he received the November 2017 
credit card statement and Mr Ts December statement was still showing that he was in 
excess of his credit limit. Although Sainsburys Bank refunded  the money in early January  
2018 I find that it didnt contact him at all until the end of January  2018. 
Overall, I dont  consider  Sainsburys  Bank provided  an adequate level of customer service  
and I find this caused Mr T upset and worry. Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank  should  pay 
Mr T £200 for this. It should also ensure that the fraudulent activity  hasnt been  recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file record.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Sainsburys Bank plc to:
pay Mr T £200
ensure that Mr Ts credit file doesnt reflect  the fraudulent activity.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2763866