K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he had to contact Barclays Bank UK plc several  times  in order  to 
understand a letter  hed received from them. Hes also unhappy that Barclays  Bank UK plc 
closed a complaint  he made prematurely and terminated a call with him unexpectedly. 
background
Mr C had a credit card issued by Barclays Bank UK plc (trading  as Barclaycard).
Mr C received a letter  from Barclaycard explaining that theyd carried  out a review of 
accounts where customers had fallen into arrears  to check theyd been offered appropriate 
support. The letter  explained that Barclaycard  had offered compensation to customers  who 
their review  concluded had suffered a financial detriment. The letter also explained that 
Barclaycard hadnt  offered Mr C any compensation as they didnt believe that hed suffered 
any financial  detriment  something Mr C now accepts.
Mr C called Barclaycard to say that he didnt understand  their letter.  He explained that he 
was autistic and lived with a number of mental health conditions  and that his autism meant 
that he needed to understand things  in detail. Mr C says he had to call several times to 
understand what the letter meant.  He complained about this saying that Barclaycard should 
have done more to help him to understand the letter, especially as hed explained his needs 
to them.  Barclaycard looked  into Mr Cs complaint and offered Mr C £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr C accepted  the £50 but says that he only did so on the understanding  that hed 
be sending them his full complaint in writing, so that Barclaycard could consider it. 
Mr C says he subsequently  received  a letter stating that his complaint had been closed 
despite what had been agreed. So, he contacted Barclaycard again. He complained  that his 
complaint had been closed prematurely, and wanted  it reopened. Having spent a significant  
amount of time on the phone  to Barclaycard, the call ended unexpectedly. Mr C felt that the 
call taker had hung up on him. So, he contacted  Barclaycard again, and complained about 
Barclaycard hanging up on him in addition to his complaint having been closed prematurely. 
Barclaycard didnt accept  that theyd ended the call deliberately.  However, theyve 
apologised to Mr C for the complaint being closed prematurely, and the call ending 
unexpectedly. They offered Mr C £25 to compensate for this. 
Mr C didnt accept Barclaycards  offer and brought a complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator  thought  that 
the compensation offered  by Barclaycard was fair. Mr C didnt accept the investigators view 
so Ive now looked into this complaint. 
Ref: DRN29921672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Cs complains that;
he had to call Barclaycard several  times  to understand  the content of a letter  
his complaint was closed prematurely
after spending around an hour on the phone to Barclaycard, the call taker  hung-up on 
him
the £75 Barclaycard have offered as compensation isnt enough
Ive read the letter Mr C received from Barclaycard and listened to the calls between Mr C 
and Barclaycard. I can see that the letter could be confusing, and why Mr C had to call 
Barclaycard to understand what the letter meant. 
Barclaycard were aware that Mr C was autistic and that he needed  to understand things in 
detail. I think that if Barclaycard had taken this on board the matter could have been 
resolved much sooner. Mr C explained that he had specific needs and Barclaycard should 
have been able to recognise  this and then deliver  the information  to Mr C in a manner that 
was suitable. I accept this caused Mr C distress  and inconvenience. However, Barclaycard 
did pay Mr C £50 as a gesture of goodwill.  I can understand why Barclaycard did this as it 
acknowledges that the letter wasnt clear and that Barclaycard hadnt given Mr C a clear 
detailed explanation of what the letter  meant,  which was important to Mr C. 
Mr Cs unhappy that his complaint was closed prematurely. Having listened to the call, Mr C 
clearly says that he accepts £50 as an interim  payment but wants to send Barclaycard his 
complaint in writing  for them to consider. The call taker doesnt  pick up on this and tells Mr C 
several times that the complaint is now resolved and will be closed. Mr C doesnt pick up on 
this. I think the call taker genuinely believed hed resolved Mr Cs complaint and brought it to 
a successful conclusion.  However, I accept this caused Mr C distress and inconvenience. 
Mr Cs unhappy that after around an hour on the phone to Barclaycard, the call was ended  
unexpectedly. I have listened  to this call and didnt find the call taker rude or unhelpful. I 
dont think that the call taker hung up on Mr C. The flow of the conversation suggests that 
the call was accidentally  disconnected. But I accept this has caused Mr C distress and 
inconvenience. 
Barclaycard have offered Mr C £25 to compensate him for closing his complaint prematurely 
and the call ending  unexpectedly. Again, I can see why Barclaycard have made  this offer as 
Mr C believed that his complaint  was going to be fully investigated, only to find out that it had 
actually been  closed. 
Having listened  to the calls, its clear that the call ending unexpectedly caused Mr C distress 
and he genuinely  believed  that the call taker  had just hung up on him, leaving him feeling let 
down and annoyed. He also felt like his complaint didnt matter  to Barclaycard. Im glad that 
Barclaycard acknowledged this by making an offer of compensation. 
Ref: DRN29921673Mr C says that the compensation hes been offered  is not enough, and as Ive already  
explained Barclaycard have offered Mr C £75 to put things right. I think  that £75 is a fair and 
reasonable amount in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
Im aware that Barclays Bank UK plc has apologised to Mr C that he had to call several 
times to understand the letter, and that his call and complaint were terminated  prematurely. 
Theyve made an offer to pay him £75 to put things right. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK plc should  pay Mr C £75 in compensation, £50 of 
which theyve already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2992167