K820x#14Complaint
Mrs J complained about the way Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited  
(Sun Life) has paid her a redress payment in relation to unsuitable advice to transfer out of 
her defined benefit (DB) pension).
Background
In 2017 Mrs J complained  to Sun Life -with the help of a claims management company 
(CMC)-about the suitability of the advice  she received to transfer her DB benefits  to a 
personal pension  in 1994. In July 2018,  Sun Life upheld the complaint and found Mrs J had 
suffered a financial loss of around  £108,500 by transferring her pension.
Sun Life confirmed in an offer letter to Mrs J that a total amount of around  £110,100 
(financial loss plus likely charges that the new plan would incur until she retired) would be 
paid into a new redress plan which they would set up for her. However, in the event that the 
total amount exceeded her available annual allowance, it would not be possible to pay the 
funds into a plan.  In this case a cash payment adjusted for tax would be made directly to her. 
Mrs Js CMC forwarded her acceptance of the offer to Sun Life. In their cover letter they 
explained that Mrs J would like to receive  the offer as a cash sum. Separately, Mrs J emailed 
Sun Life a couple  of days later to say that she wanted the sum paid to her in cash, so she 
could pay the fees of the claims management  company she had instructed to help her with 
the complaint  and invest the remainder of the money herself.
Sun Life wrote to Mrs J and her CMC and explained that they had set up a new redress  plan 
and paid the compensation due to Mrs J into it as set out in their offer letter.  The payment in 
cash was only an alternative if the payment couldnt be paid into a pension due to lack of 
available annual allowances.  As Mrs J still had available allowances  from previous years,  a 
payment into a pension was possible  and therefore Sun Life proceeded this way.
Unhappy with the response a complaint was referred to this service. One of our adjudicators  
investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld. 
He noted that the redress methodology followed by Sun Life was in line with the regulators 
guidance. In addition, given that Mrs J had available annual  allowance which  could be 
utilised, he considered that paying the redress into a pension  was the most appropriate 
method of redress for Mrs J in order to put her back into the position she wouldve been in 
had she not transferred her DB benefits in 1994.  He felt it would be inappropriate to pay the 
compensation directly  to Mrs J when  she was not of pension  age, and as the funds were  
essentially for her retirement.   
Mrs Js representatives didnt agree. They said if Mrs Js original pension plan couldnt  be 
augmented, then Sun Life should  have  paid the redress directly  to her rather than setting up 
a new plan. They also queried how Sun Life could  use Mrs Js annual allowances from 
previous years without  her consent.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN21752482Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Sun Life followed the regulators guidance on how to calculate  the redress amount and I 
havent seen anything to suggest this was done incorrectly. The issue  to consider here is 
whether Sun Life should pay Mrs J the redress as cash.
I think Sun Lifes offer letter clearly  explained that the offer was to set up a redress pension  
plan. The cash sum was merely an alternative  if the payment exceeded Mrs Js available 
annual allowance  and therefore a pension payment wasnt  possible.  Mrs J wasnt  given an 
option to choose between  these  alternatives. 
I appreciate that Mrs J would prefer a cash payment  directly  to her. And I note that Sun Life 
could have paid the sum to her in cash if they had decided to do so. The regulators 
guidance doesnt prevent  this action. 
However, the redress is meant to put Mrs J as far as possible in the position  she would be in 
now if she hadnt transferred her DB pension. Augmenting the customers  personal  pension 
is the common way to compensate customers in these circumstances. I assume Mrs Js 
existing policy was closed  to further contributions, so a new plan was set up with the same 
investment as Mrs Js base plan. This seems reasonable  to me. 
I also dont think Sun Life acted unfairly  when using Mrs Js annual  allowances  from previous 
years. The acceptance form completed by Mrs J contained the following statement: 
Whilst the annual allowance is £40,000 for this tax year, you are able to carry forward any 
unused annual allowance from the three previous  tax years.  
The form went on to confirm that the redress may count towards Mrs Js annual allowance,
and requested information in relation to her contributions into any pension plan since 2016.
Mrs J completed  the form confirming that she had not contributed into any pensions during
this period. I think the form made  it reasonably clear that Mrs Js annual allowances would  
be taken into account when making the offer.
Lastly, Mrs Js representatives made  the argument that Mrs J was prevented  from making 
her own retirement decisions. However,  if she wants to invest her pension differently or 
transfer the pension to a different provider, she should be able to do this by contacting Sun 
Life.
In summary,  I dont think paying the redress into a new pension plan -which  also covered the 
relevant charges- was unfair in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 1 October 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21752483
Ref: DRN2175248