K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained about the quality of a bathroom and kitchen  installation  paid for using 
a fixed sum loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc t/as Hitachi Personal  Finance (Hitachi). 
background
In May 2017, Mr O entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement with Hitachi to pay for a kitchen 
and bathroom  installation. Mr O paid a £1,200 deposit and the total installation cost 
£10,870.84. To make things simpler Ill refer to the suppliers and their fitters as B.
Mr O was extremely unhappy  with how things went. He had issues with things arriving on 
time. He was unhappy with the behaviour of B. There were  problems with the goods 
themselves. There were safety  concerns due to the manner  B installed the goods. And Mr O 
complained about damage caused  to his property by Bs poor workmanship. 
Over the next year, Mr O corresponded back and forth with B many  times. He had several 
visits from B to repair things. Its fair to say he was in constant contact with them.  And, there 
were occasions he says he had to get his own traders to sort things out, where  it wasnt 
possible or appropriate for B to attend his property.  
B made various offers  to Mr O in recognition of the problems and the inconvenience caused 
to him. But Mr O remained unhappy.  Mr O didnt want  to accept the offers  because he didnt 
think they went far enough  to put things  right for him. He said he and his wife had to take 
time off work because  of all the issues. He was unhappy with the state  his house was left in 
by B and there  were still issues with the installation. He said hed been  hugely 
inconvenienced, and he wasnt confident the installation would be corrected. He also said 
the whole  matter had made him very unwell. 
As things  werent  getting resolved, Mr O brought a complaint against the creditor, Hitachi, to 
our service.  When  the complaint was referred to our service, to resolve things, Mr O asked 
for the contract to be terminated  together with a full refund.  He also asked for loss of 
earnings for him and his wife together with compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Hitachi arranged for an independent report to be carried out in August 2018.  Ive 
summarised the conclusions of the report below:
Gas hob  the inspector couldnt  find anything wrong with it. 
Extractor fan  the inspector didnt think it needed replacing as it was working  
correctly. But he did say that it needed some  paint removing and for it to be cleaned. 
Electric socket for gas hob  the inspector said this was a potential safety issue  and 
that it didnt comply with the relevant regulations.  The socket wasnt  fitted  properly 
and to do so the oven  would need to be removed to gain access. The inspector also 
recommended all the electric work was checked,  tested  and certified by a qualified 
electrician and any other remedial work carried out. 
Waste pipe  the inspector said wire wool was used to fill the holes in the floor 
behind the base units and that this wasnt correct.  He recommended  various units, 
work surfaces and plumbing be removed so the holes around  the pipe could be filled 
with concrete.
Waste pipe under sink  the inspector said there were no current leaks.  He said it 
was standard  that PVC pipes are used. But he did say there was evidence of a leak 
at some stage because the bottom  panel  was discoloured, and the moisture content 
Ref: DRN22992062was higher than usual.  He recommended the base corner unit under the sink was 
replaced. 
Kitchen tap  the inspector said this wasnt leaking  but had a tendency to drip after 
being turned  off so should have  new washers  or ceramic discs.
Bathroom taps leaking  the inspector said they didnt leak but had a tendency  to drip 
after being  turned off due to their design. He said no remedial action was required. 
Shower pipes adjoining water tank  the inspector says thered been  a leak which 
had stained the loft board.  But he also said it was dry and structurally sound  so didnt 
need replacing. 
I think its important to note here the independent report hasnt commented on all the 
problems Mr O said he had with the installation. And, it doesnt refer to the other various 
issues Mr O had with B.
After the report,  B entered into further  correspondence with Mr O for the next few months. 
They spoke about other problems not identified in the independent  report, and B made 
further offers to put things  right for Mr O. Mr O remained unhappy. He said several  issues 
remained. He said he had to get his own traders in to carry out remedial  work,  and he also 
had to arrange a pest controller to visit because mice  entered  the property as a result  of the 
poor installation  of the waste  pipe. He was very concerned about the electrical safety and 
said due to the problems, all of the electrical  certificates on his house had been revoked. 
B made a further offer to put things right in October 2019. It offered:
£80 for the oven  engineer visit.
£1,140 compensation.
£800 plus stock  in allowance for the works specified under the independent report. 
To arrange for a NICEIC assessment  on the electrics as completed in the contract.
£500 in contribution towards hotel costs  to allow Mr O and his wife to be away  from 
the property for three days so remedial works can be carried  out. 
To carry out any remedial works on the electrics  or oven off the back of the visits.
Mr O didnt accept the offer. B came  back and offered another £179 so that he could get a 
splash back fitted.  But he wanted further compensation, totalling over £30,000. And following 
on from this, Mr O found black  mould and he provided an invoice for a dehumidifier  to stop 
the mould coming back until the moisture problem could be resolved. 
Around this time, our investigator issued an assessment on the complaint. She said she 
thought there had been a breach of contract.  And she thought that the offer to remedy the 
issues highlighted in the independent  report, along  with the compensation was a fair starting 
point. She considered Mr Os request for further works and compensation but pointed out 
there was a lack of evidence for certain  things he was claiming for. Overall, our investigator 
thought Hitachi  could have done more to resolve  things  sooner for Mr O rather than relying 
on B to resolve everything. So, she recommended it also pay Mr O £250 compensation on 
top of what was already on the table.  
Mr O responded to say he was glad it was nearer conclusion, but he disagreed with the 
offer. In summary he said:
He would contact  the supplier to resolve the issue with the hob and understood why 
no recommendations were made. 
Ref: DRN22992063B didnt  follow  building regulations when installing the extractor fan and it needs to be 
made good because the fan recycles  air as opposed  to extracting it outside. He felt a 
new fan would need to be installed.  
The electrical testing  was done in 2018  but the installation was done in 2017  so on 
this basis he felt the safety certificate is void and electrical  work is illegal. Therefore, 
he wanted removal, replacement and new certificates issued.
Pipes needed fixing under the sink due to leaks that were shown in the independent 
report. 
Hed accept funds  to get his own trader to fix the kitchen tap. 
There were  problems  with one of the radiators that were installed and that hed get 
his tradesperson  to generate an invoice for the works to rectify this. 
Hed accept replacement rings  for the bath taps,  but the basin tap would need 
replacing as its a sealed unit. 
He wants the shower pipe made  safe.  
He asked a trader about the moisture on the kitchen floor and that he thinks  B 
caused the issues which led to this, so he wanted  this putting right. 
The assessment  didnt mention the board that covered the waste pipe. 
There is evidence of mice entering  the property due to Bs installation so he would 
like something as a way of an apology for this happening. 
There were  problems  relating to the gas caused  in the installation which caused 
inconvenience and safety concerns. 
He was told his fuse board should  have been changed prior to the work carried  out 
by B. 
He doesnt  have invoices for the additional work  because he was focussed on trying  
to make his house safe and look after his wife. But he has asked for invoices to be 
provided. 
Theres mould which was as a result  of the poor installation from B which  should be 
remedied. 
He didnt think the compensation was anywhere near sufficient.  
Things moved on after our investigator sent her assessment on the complaint. Mr O 
continued to regularly correspond with Hitachi and B about  the problems he was having. 
In early 2020, Mr O spoke to B again  about  the electrics  because he was concerned  about  
the safety of his property. There was a period Mr O was unable  to use his kitchen for a few 
weeks because it needed to be certified  safe to use. He asked another  company to quote  on 
rewiring and reinstalling  the electrics which came  to around £1,700. 
B attended to carry out some works to make the kitchen safe and issue  safety certificates  for 
the cooker, water heater and general sockets.  And it also paid Mr O £265  for cleaning 
following the electricians  attending, along  with around £150  for lunch for the day and a 
haircut for Mr Os wife. 
Mr O remained  unhappy. In addition  to other  costs  he says he incurred, he said fixing  the 
door seals due to dust caused during the works would cost £174. He complained about the 
extractor fan in the bathroom and sent in evidence of mice in the loft which he thinks  was as 
a result of the poor installation. Further to this he complained about  the way the boiler had 
been boxed in, and said it wasnt vented properly. He also says his washing machine failed 
prematurely because of the way the waste pipe was positioned. He complained  about  issues 
with the shower  pump, the bath and the sink as well. Due to all the issues,  Mr O said the 
best outcome  for him would be to have the kitchen completely changed  along  with various 
parts of the bathroom being replaced  too. 
Ref: DRN22992064Another inspection  was carried out on the installation in September  2020. In relation  to the 
kitchen, the inspector said there  is a lot of cabinet  damage and lots of errors by 
inexperienced tradesman. He also said theres  a few safety issues which need immediate 
attention as they do not comply with building regulations for the boiler  housing  and extractor  
due to the size of the kitchen. The inspector felt the whole kitchen would need to be replaced 
once the moisture  issue was resolved by replacing  the waste  pipe. 
After looking at the bathroom, the inspector said the tiling had not been completed to a 
professional standard. And he said there was an issue with the bath panel and that the 
extractor was a safety concern. He noted a few other issues in relation to the pipework and 
the flooring. And he didnt think the bath, sink, toilet and radiator were installed properly. 
The inspector also noted some  other  issues that Mr O had mentioned. In summary, he says:
The landing was damaged during the installation  and the repairs  were  not up to 
scratch. 
The installers damaged a rug by dripping plaster on it. 
Mr O filmed the installers showing how poorly  they acted. 
The installers damaged Mr Os French doors by getting wood chippings  in the seals.
There was evidence  of rodent infestation  and the rodents could climb the waste  pipe 
and reach all levels of the house.  
Following on from this, Hitachi  arranged  another independent inspection on the kitchen and 
bathroom. The inspector looked at the problems  identified  in the first report, as well as the 
further issues Mr O raised. The inspector noted  many issues  with the installation.  In 
summary, he said: 
Due to poor quality of workmanship the kitchen and bathroom installations fall well short  of 
industry standard. 
The quality of workmanship is extremely poor and manufacturers guidelines for the extractor 
hood and gas boiler have  not been  adhered too and subsequently relevant British Standards 
have not been met. 
It is hard to find anything positive about both installations and the more you look the more  
you find in terms of sub-standard workmanship.
The inspector made  a significant number of recommendations to bring  the kitchen and 
bathroom up to industry  standard.  
Further to making  recommendations relating to the kitchen and bathroom, the inspector also 
said the following  should be done:
Make  sure the outside tap is connected correctly.
Cement the hole used  by the over-flow pipe. 
Make  sure the chipboard is secured on the stairs.
Take the French doors apart and clean the seals and reassemble. 
Hitachi reviewed the report  and spoke to B about it. In light of the report, B made a new offer 
to resolve things. It offered:
Ref: DRN22992065A full refund  of the kitchen and bathroom totalling £10,870.84. 
Compensation of £6,000.
Our investigator put the offer to Mr O, but he didnt accept it. He said he wanted the kitchen 
and bathroom  replaced and that all aspects of the installation  to be investigated. He also 
didnt think the compensation went far enough.  He thought he was still out of pocket  with 
expenses. He said there was multiple  electrical issues not covered in the report. He said the 
fitters should not have touched or moved  the water  meter and there would be costs involved 
in resolving this issue.  He also said the kitchen  and bathroom would require re-plastering. 
Overall, Mr O was very concerned that if the kitchen and bathroom  were replaced, there 
might be unknown problems which could lead to extra  costs  and works being required. He 
was concerned that the moisture in the property damaged it, but more  importantly mightve  
affected his wifes health. He thought hed incur costs because he and his wife wouldnt be 
able to stay in the property while rectification works  were carried  out. And he didnt think  the 
compensation offered would be enough to resolve  all outstanding  issues.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint saying: 
When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have  been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
As a starting point,  I want to say Im very sorry to hear that Mr O and his wife have been  
unwell. I appreciate the time and effort it has taken  Mr O to bring his complaint to our 
service.
Secondly, I want to acknowledge  that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont 
intend any discourtesy  by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. The 
complaint covers a period of many years and there is a significant amount of evidence and 
correspondence on file. I want  to assure Mr O and Hitachi  that Ive reviewed everything on 
file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because  I havent considered  it. Its 
because Ive concentrated  on what  I think  are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do 
this. 
Relevant considerations
I thought it would be helpful  to set out why we are able to investigate Mr Os complaint and 
explain a little bit about the relevant considerations. 
Mr O bought his kitchen and bathroom  using a fixed sum loan agreement.  This sort of 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement. Our service  is able to consider 
complaints about  claims raised with fixed sum loan providers. 
When considering  if Hitachi acted fairly in dealing with Mr Os claim, I take into account the 
relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  makes  
Hitachi responsible  for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under 
certain conditions. 
I know that Mr Os wife is on the supply contract and Mr O is on the finance agreement. 
Hitachi hasnt raised an issue with this. And given the purchase was part of their joint affairs,  
Im happy  all the necessary criteria for section 75 are met here. 
Ref: DRN22992066The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is also relevant to this complaint. Mr O effectively 
paid for a service  using  the fixed sum loan from Hitachi. The service was for B to install a 
kitchen and bathroom. 
The CRA implies terms into that contract that traders must perform  the service  with 
reasonable care and skill. And the CRA  also sets out what remedies are available to 
consumers if statutory  rights under a services contract are not met. 
Breach of contract
I dont think its in dispute theres  been a breach of contract  here. The installation hasnt 
been carried out with reasonable care and skill. Everyone seems  to be in agreement on this 
point. 
Whats left in dispute  is the steps required to put things right.  
Here, the supplier, B, has offered to give Mr O a full refund of the cost of installation as well 
as £6,000 compensation. Mr O doesnt think this goes  far enough and would like Hitachi to 
make up the difference. 
The complaint Im considering is against  Hitachi  who under section 75 is jointly liable for 
the breach of contract. Im planning  on directing  Hitachi to provide the resolution for Mr O. 
But its not right Mr O gets paid by Hitachi  and B, so I think  its fair that Hitachi can deduct 
anything paid by B from the resolution.  
To put things right, considering the recommendations of the most recent independent  
inspections, Mr O will need to replace most of the bathroom and kitchen. And in the 
circumstances, I can understand why Mr O would  essentially want to start again.  
So, I agree  Mr O should be refunded everything paid under the agreement.  As there has 
been a breach of contract, I think Hitachi should  add 8% per year simple  interest from the 
date each payment  was made by Mr O, to the date of settlement as well as remove any 
adverse information  about the agreement from Mr Os credit  file. 
Refunding Mr O everything  paid puts him back in the financial position hed have been in 
had he not bought the kitchen and bathroom.  But this doesnt  fully resolve things for him. 
Hes still got a kitchen  and bathroom  hes not happy with. Hes worried about other damage 
caused by B. He says hes out of pocket for other  things. And he also wants  to be fairly 
compensated for the distress  and inconvenience  thats been caused  to him over the last few 
years. 
With regard to the kitchen and bathroom, I think Hitachi should either:
Arrange to have  all goods paid for under the contract with B to be removed from 
Mr Os property  at a time thats  convenient  to him. And this must be done by a 
reputable trader thats not linked to B. Or
Cover the reasonable cost of removal of Bs kitchen and bathroom when Mr O 
arranges for new suites to be installed (upon receipt of evidence).
Either option would enable Mr O to arrange  his own trader  to install something thats suitable 
for him. And it would also enable a clean  break.  
Ref: DRN22992067Other matters
The other things  left in dispute relate  to consequential  losses  and the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
B has offered compensation  of £6,000 to Mr O. It felt this amount was fair compensation for 
everything that happened. And this offer is still on the table. So, I must take this into account 
when deciding if Hitachi needs to do anything else to put things right.  
Mr O has mentioned significant costs hes incurred or might be about to incur  as a result  of 
Bs installation. When deciding if I can fairly direct Hitachi to compensate Mr O there  are a 
few things I need to take into account.  I must bear in mind that Im not considering a 
complaint against  B. Im considering the liability of Hitachi for a like claim against B for a 
breach of contract.  So, I need to think about  what a court might award against B in similar  
circumstances. 
Generally speaking, when thinking  about Mr Os consequential losses, I think  its fair to ask:
Does the loss flow directly from the breach of contract?
Was the loss reasonably foreseeable?
Is the loss Mr Os?
Did Mr O mitigate his losses?
Has the loss occurred yet, or is it due to happen in the future?
Has Mr O already been  reimbursed  for the loss?
Ive highlighted  these  costs below, from what I can make out:
Cost of the oven  engineer visit.
Money to get a new splash back fitted. 
Cost of the dehumidifier Mr O needed  to get because of the mould. 
Cleaning of the house on various occasions  before  and after trader  visits. 
Cleaning and ironing  of clothes due to excess dust as a result of the installation.  
Damaged rug. 
Cost of extra work on the extractor  fan. 
Cost of pest controller. 
Cost to repair damp. 
Rewiring.
Retesting safety of gas and electric.
Wasted water due to leaks. 
Food while the kitchen  was out of use. 
Cost to remove dust affecting door seals caused  by B. 
Replacement washing  machine.
Cost of a rental property while the kitchen and bathroom are reinstalled.  
Cost of plumber  to investigate issue with the sink. 
Filling in hole by waste pipe and ceiling  and chasing behind  cabinets. 
Plastering kitchen  and bathroom.  
Moving the water meter.
Time taken off work.
Ref: DRN22992068Mr O has already been reimbursed for some of the losses included  in the list above. Hes 
also going to receive  a full refund for the cost of the kitchen and bathroom, and Ive 
recommended the cost of removing the kitchen and bathroom is covered too. So, I dont 
think I need to get Hitachi  to reimburse  Mr O anything else in relation to those things. 
Some of the items on the list above  are very hard to quantify. And some of the costs  havent 
come about  yet. We also dont have  all the evidence of the actual losses  Mr O says hes 
incurred. So, Ive asked  myself how can I fairly make a direction that resolves  the issues  
above as fairly as possible? And should  there  be an award in addition  to the £6,000 that is 
already on offer? 
Taking into account the steps Mr O will need  to take to put things right,  I think the fairest way 
to resolve this is to ask Hitachi  to refund Mr O everything hes paid to traders so far in 
relation to any work on his kitchen or bathroom  since they were installed, on receipt  of 
reasonable evidence  providing neither B nor Hitachi has already reimbursed Mr O for the 
invoice. 
Based on the evidence,  I think its safe to say that after installing a brand-new  kitchen and 
bathroom, Mr O should  have been  able to expect there to be no costs arising from the 
installations for a significant amount  of time.  So, I think any costs  that Mr O has outlaid in 
relation to the kitchen and bathroom since  the installation should be recoverable. I think  
money paid to traders for work on the kitchen and bathroom ticks the boxes of being 
reasonably foreseeable and directly flowing  from the breach  of contract. To be clear,  this will 
cover all costs  in relation  to work  carried out by B, up until the date of acceptance  of a final 
decision  should  Mr O wish to do so. I think its reasonable to keep  this separate  to the 
compensation that B thought was fair. I also think its fair that Hitachi add 8% per year simple  
interest to those sums too. 
Ive finally  gone  on to consider Mr Os claim for compensation in relation to the distress  and 
inconvenience thats been caused.  
Compensation for distress and inconvenience  is limited with this type of complaint. Firstly, I 
must bear in mind that Mr O is the customer of Hitachi here. And its important to note I can 
only consider the impact  of the breach of contract on Mr O himself. 
Its been three and a half years since the kitchen  and bathroom were  installed. Its not 
possible for me to say I know what Mr O has been  through. The situation is still causing 
issues and it must  be deeply  frustrating  for Mr O. Mr O has said the problems have affected 
his health, and therefore his ability to work. And to make matters worse, Mr Os wife has 
been very unwell  too. 
As Ive said above,  there are considerations I must have before awarding  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I cant fairly direct Hitachi to pay compensation in relation to 
Mr Os wifes illness. And no amount of money  can change  whats  happened here. But its 
clear the whole situation has had a huge  impact  on Mr Os life for the last few years.  Hes 
been caused discomfort in the home.  And I dont doubt its affected his health  and caused  
him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. 
That being  said,  I have  to take account  of the offer thats been made by B. As Im planning 
on directing Hitachi  to put Mr O back in the financial position so that he can start again, the 
only thing left to decide is whether I can fairly tell Hitachi to pay more in compensation than 
whats already on offer.  And I dont  think I can do that. Courts  do consider whats known as 
Ref: DRN22992069general damages. But awards in building cases  where distress and inconvenience  have  
been caused tend to be modest. 
The offer from B is a significant sum and is much more than what Id consider  modest.  I think  
the situation has caused Mr O significant  upset and discomfort in the home. I accept that 
Mr O has had to take some time off work because of all the issues. And I also expect  there 
will be some  further disruption when the new kitchen  and bathroom are reinstalled, together  
with some extra costs. So, I think its fair this is recognised by an award  of compensation. 
But I cant fairly ask Hitachi to pay more than the £6,000 on offer. 
As the complaint is against  Hitachi, Im planning  on directing it to arrange  to have the 
payment made to Mr O. But as above, its fair for it to deduct anything paid to Mr O direct by 
B. 
Our investigator also recommended Hitachi pay Mr O £250 for the way it handled the claim. I 
agree with what our investigator has said here.  Hitachi  is jointly  liable for the complaint about 
the breach of contract. I think it could have done  more, sooner, to take ownership of the 
issue when Mr O contacted it for help.  I think this added to the distress caused  to Mr O, so I 
think the £250 award recommended by our investigator is also fair in the circumstances.  
Hitachi responded to the provisional decision after speaking to B. B said it accepted it will 
provide a full refund  and £6,000 compensation. But it doesnt think it should have to cover  
removal costs because  the original contract  contains removal  charges. As this is already due 
to be refunded it doesnt think it should  have to pay this again. 
With regards to the other costs Mr O incurred, B said its offer of £6,000 was significantly in 
excess of its obligations  and so it did not feel it should have to pay any more.  
Mr O responded. In summary he said:
Hes concerned about having  moisture released into his house over so many years  
and that if theres any damage in relation to it, the relating  works should be covered. 
Hes worried  his wifes health  has been  put at risk due to the moisture levels.  Aside 
from the health concerns, hes also worried their life insurance premiums may go up. 
He would like a CCTV inspection  on the waste pipe. 
The gas and electrics  need changing  and arent  legal.
He should  be compensated for lost water due to the dripping taps and the electric 
used for the dehumidifier and heaters.
The replacement microwave wasnt the same  quality.
His kitchen door was never replaced. And the bathroom door has been damaged by 
the moisture. 
He thinks Hitachi hasnt followed the FCA principles. He thinks it should be punished  
and offer further compensation for its failings.  
He thinks interest  should be added every  month  rather than every  year.
He wants to make sure hes reimbursed fairly.
The poor electrical work wasnt mentioned.
He would like clarity on whats going to happen to future costs such as the electrical 
works and a replacement washing machine. 
He wants to be reimbursed for days taken  off work for him and his wife. 
The poor workmanship  has affected his wifes health. 
Ref: DRN229920610He would like hotel  costs covered  when  the kitchen and bathroom are reinstalled and 
would like for his possessions to be placed in storage when this happens. 
He would like a security guard to look after the property when work is being  carried  
out. 
He thinks that new quotes he will get for a replacement kitchen and bathroom will 
cost more than what  he originally  paid. And he doesnt think he should have to pay 
for a new kitchen and bathroom.
Hes unhappy about having to pay for things before  getting  a refund. 
Hes unhappy it required more than one report to establish all the issues.  
Hes lost a re-mortgage rate due to his credit  rating.
Hes had further losses  and inconvenience  incurred as a result of the poor 
workmanship. 
The process has caused Mr O long term damage. 
He wants Hitachi to send him items it refers to on its website to help reduce  stress,  or 
to have the monetary equivalent so he can source his own.  
He would like the boiler and central  heating checked for damage  by B.
He would like the house redecorated and food replaced for the time hes out of the 
property. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi didnt think the costs to remove the kitchen and bathroom  should be awarded  
because the original contracts  contained  removal charges. Having reviewed the contracts  
again, I agree. I can see that the original  contracts  for the kitchen and bathroom installation  
both had £153 removal costs included. As Mr O is going to be receiving a full refund of what 
he paid under the original contracts, hes essentially going to receive the money  back  to be 
able to have the current kitchen and bathrooms  removed again  should he wish to do so. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Hitachi to cover  this cost again. 
 
Our investigator wrote to both parties  to explain my position on this point. Im therefore not 
going to be recommending  the future removal costs are covered separately  to the full refund 
that has already  been proposed.
Ive thought about the other objections from the parties to the proposed  redress. But having  
done so, Im still of the view the other recommendations in my provisional  decision are a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve  the complaint. 
Hitachi has said that B thinks its offer of £6,000 compensation  was in excess  of its 
obligations so it doesnt think it should pay any more.  
Mr O on the other hand doesnt think the compensation  has gone far enough. And Ive set 
out above the other points  he wants me to consider when making my final decision. 
Im not going  to go over everything in my provisional  decision again in detail, nor respond to 
every point raised, but I think it would be helpful if I summarised my thoughts to the main 
objections.  
Its not in dispute  that something  went very wrong  here during  the installation.  And matters  
have still not been resolved. My final decision cant change whats  happened.  But its aim is 
Ref: DRN229920611to put Mr O in the position he would have been  in had the mistakes not happened, as far as 
is reasonably possible.  
I appreciate Mr O is understandably  very concerned about the knock-on  effects  of the 
installation, the gas, electrics,  and water meter along with any potential rectification costs  
involved. The issue I have  is that I simply dont know there will be other costs or, if there  are, 
what they will be. Sufficient evidence hasnt  been  provided. We also dont know  if a similar 
kitchen and bathroom will be more  expensive than the price Mr O paid. Making  directions on 
what may or may not happen is difficult.  And Mr O has mentioned some things that havent 
been mentioned  before. So, Ive thought about  what evidence  there  is available  now to help 
me decide the case. 
I think I must  put most  weight on what the independent expert has said needs to be done to 
put things right. Its a detailed, independent, expert  report on what  went  wrong with the 
installation. In essence, the independent  inspector has said that a significant amount of 
works needs to be carried out on the bathroom and kitchen to bring them up to a reasonable 
standard. But there is a full refund on the table. Mr O can use the money to remedy the 
issues with the bathroom and kitchen  as set out in the report, or he has the option to 
effectively start again. And hell be paid interest  on the refund too. So, I think the offer is fair 
in the circumstances and resolves  the issues with the kitchen and bathroom that the report 
highlights. 
The inspector also said there were  some further works that should be carried  out, as a result  
of the poor installation   including works on the outside tap, a hole by the over-flow  pipe, the 
chipboard on the stairs, and the French doors.  I think my direction for Hitachi to cover  
reasonable costs  for remedial work in relation to the kitchen and bathroom installation  up to 
acceptance of a final decision is also a fair way to resolve things  in the circumstances.  It 
means that everything  within  the independent  report has been considered.  I will clarify this in 
my directions below.  
Ive gone on to think about  the compensation. 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision why I cant fairly award  compensation against  
Hitachi for whats happened to Mr Os wife, as she is not the eligible complainant. Again, I 
want to say Im very sorry to hear that Mr Os wife is unwell and that the installation  has 
impacted her. But Ive explained  the reasons Im unable to award  compensation for this. So, 
Im not going  to go over that again. 
Mr O has asked for the interest  to be calculated monthly. But Im satisfied that 8% simple 
annual interest is the fair way to resolve  things. We award interest at this rate because its 
the current rate thats used on judgment debts. So Im not going to amend this. 
Mr O has also mentioned  his credit rating. Ive not seen  any evidence  that Hitachi has 
recorded anything  incorrect but, for completeness, Im directing it to remove  any adverse 
information recorded on his credit file in relation to the agreement.
Ref: DRN229920612Mr O has pointed out he wants  alternative  accommodation costs  covered for the time he has 
a new bathroom  and kitchen installed  along  with other associated costs. He mentioned  
that this was previously  on offer from Hitachi. But I need to highlight that this was proposed 
prior to the £6,000 offer. Mr O has also referred to other losses  that arent included in my 
directions such as the water cost from the dripping  taps and extra electricity thats been 
used. Along with a request for Hitachi to send  him products on its website that are aimed to 
reduce stress.
Mr O has also said the compensation doesnt go far enough. Hes highlighted the impact  of 
the installation  on him personally, and the time hes taken off work. He thinks  Hitachi  should  
at least be matching the compensation offer from B.
I think its right Mr O is compensated fairly. But I need to be clear,  Im considering a 
complaint against  Hitachi   not B. Hitachi is jointly and severally liable to Mr O for claims in 
respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentation. I have to take into account the offer 
thats already  been made. And, Ive explained  the considerations I need  to have when 
deciding compensation for distress and inconvenience in building  cases. So, Im not going to 
go over that again  other than to say, in the round,  I think £6,000  compensation is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
Finally, on a separate note, the payment of £250 Ive agreed  that Hitachi should make is in 
relation to its actions  when Mr O first contacted  it about  the claim, prior to our services  
involvement. Ive already  set out that I think it couldve handled things better  when Mr O first 
asked for help, and why it should pay some compensation.  So, Im not going  to direct Hitachi 
to increase this. 
I understand Mr O will be disappointed Im not directing Hitachi  to take further action. But 
after considering everything both parties have said, I think my recommendations are a fair 
way to resolve things  and puts Mr O back in the position he would have been in, as far as is 
reasonably possible, based on the evidence I have.  I should point out hes not obliged to 
accept this final decision. Hes free to pursue the complaint by other means, such as through  
the courts. If hes thinking of taking Hitachi to court, he might  want  to seek  independent legal 
advice before accepting the final decision. This is because  he may not be able to go to court  
to ask for further  compensation  if he accepts the final decision.  
Ref: DRN229920613my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc t/as 
Hitachi Personal Finance to:
Refund Mr O all payments made  towards  the fixed sum loan agreement.  
Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement recorded on Mr Os credit 
file.
Reimburse Mr O any reasonable costs for remedial works  in relation to the kitchen 
and bathroom  installation by B up to acceptance of the final decision  upon receipt 
of evidence. 
Interest* should  be added to the above  amounts at a rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date each payment was made to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr O £6,000  compensation in relation to Bs offer.
Pay Mr O £250 compensation.
Hitachi can deduct anything paid by B from the resolution. 
*If Hitachi  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also provide  Mr O with 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Hitachi must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr O 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2299206