K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs J bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card in store. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint because:
 Given what we know about how FICL  sold PPI, I think its likely that FICL made Mrs J 
aware that she had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it. Mrs J 
doesnt remember the PPI being discussed  or agreeing to it. But given the sale was so 
long ago, I think this is understandable.  
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs J doesnt appear  to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Js comments,  including what  shes  said about  having sick pay. 
But these  points dont  change my conclusion. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay and for longer, meaning she could use her sick pay for other things.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2044071