K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the impact TSB Bank  plcs Information Technology (IT) issues  had on 
him.
background
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its IT system.  Mr S has told us that TSBs 
system issues  meant: 
He couldnt  use internet  banking to make payments  from his account 
His bank statements showed incorrect  balances 
He spent time calling  TSB and visiting its branch in an attempt to resolve the issues
Mr S has also raised some concerns about the way in which  TSB dealt with his complaint.
TSB acknowledges  there were problems with its internet  banking  services and bank 
statements but Mr S didnt suffer any loss as result  of this. To compensate  Mr S for any 
distress and inconvenience caused, it offered a total of £100  compensation. It also offered 
£50 for costs  such as calls. 
Mr S agrees  there wasnt any loss as a result of the IT issues,  but he wasnt happy with 
TSBs response so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators considered his 
complaint and didnt think  TSB had done  enough  to put things  right. They recommended 
TSB to pay a further £50 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused  as they 
thought the impact to Mr S was more. So a total of £200 compensation was recommended 
which was made up of £150 distress and inconvenience - and £50 costs. TSB responded to 
accept the adjudicators recommendation.
But Mr S didnt agree and to resolve  things,  Mr S would like TSB to pay £1,000 
compensation. As he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I understand this will come  as a 
disappointment to him but Ill explain why.
I note that Mr S has made  a number of detailed points,  which  I have read and considered.   
I hope the fact that I do not respond  in a similar  detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution  service, we are tasked  with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality.  In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
Its not disputed  that TSBs system issues would have  caused Mr S problems in using his 
account. So I need to decide  what TSB should  do to put things right for him.
Ref: DRN29182322Mr S says for three days he was unable to make payments from his account but there wasnt  
any loss as a result  of this. He says his bank  statements were showing incorrect balances 
such as overdrawn amounts and missed  payments,  so he printed his statements for the 
previous two years. This was so he could have  an audit  trail in the event that the IT issues 
were not resolved, but this took him a considerable amount of time. He says he visited a 
bank branch a couple of times and spent money  on parking as he was unable  to get through 
on TSBs helpline due to call waiting times. And when he did get through on its helpline he 
spent time on these calls.   
Mr S also wasnt  happy with the service he received from TSB and raised some concerns 
about the way in which TSB dealt with his complaint, such as the length of time it took TSB 
to respond and its letter not being clear.  
I can certainly appreciate  that his bank statements showing incorrect balances  was worrying 
and frustrating to Mr S. And I can understand that hed be concerned about what  had 
happened to his money. It also appears  that Mr S took steps  to try and sort things out with 
TSB by visiting a branch and calling but that TSB wasnt  able to put his mind at rest about 
what was going  on with his account.  And I acknowledge that due to the IT issues  impacting a 
number of its customers TSB did take longer  to address Mr S concerns. So I do agree that 
TSB has made  an error  here,  and I think Mr S should be compensated for the impact that 
had on him. 
But I also note that there  wasnt any loss to Mr S as a result of the IT issues.  So the impact 
appears to be the worry that was caused to him when he couldnt understand what  was 
going on with his money. Having looked  at everything that has happened  here,  I appreciate 
that TSBs  IT problems did cause frustration and worry to Mr S. But including any costs  and 
the way TSB has handled Mr S complaint, I think that £200 is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Mr S has raised other concerns such as the bank advisor on the phone  asking him to 
provide his full security  number rather than partial - and that TSBs contact number was 
incorrect on its general website. TSB has said it checked its website  to ensure the correct 
number is displayed, and it sometimes asks for more information for protection which  I dont 
think is unreasonable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided that if it hasnt  done so already, TSB Bank plc 
should pay Mr S £200 compensation  it can deduct any amount  it has already paid Mr S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2918232