K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI). Ms W took out PPI with a 
mortgage in 1993, she says Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold her the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ws complaint. He said there  was very little information still 
available because of how long ago things happened. But in summary he concluded  that PPI 
was a compulsory  term of Ms Ws mortgage  and that she was likely made aware of this. And 
there was nothing else to indicate shed lost out as a result  of taking out the mortgage  with 
PPI.
Ms W disagreed with this, so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Ms Ws main complaint  point  as I see it is that she says there was no discussion about PPI, 
so she wasnt given  a choice. She says had she been asked, she would not have chosen to 
take PPI. Nationwide says that in Ms Ws particular case it made PPI a condition  of the 
mortgage because  of the interest rate it was offering.  It says this would have been made 
clear at the time.
I understand Ms W says she can recall  that much  of the meeting about  the mortgage  
focused on the adviser trying to sell her an endowment.  But I think its also likely that she 
may not remember all the specifics of a mortgage meeting that took place in 1993. I can also 
understand why Nationwide no longer has any of the original paperwork due to the time 
thats passed. The mortgage was taken out over 25 years ago and it ended around 20 years 
ago. Businesses are not required to retain  documents and customer  information indefinitely.
Given the limited evidence available, I need  to consider what I do have and where there  are 
gaps decide things on the balance  of probabilities  what I think most likely happened  in light 
of the evidence.
Nationwide was free to make having  PPI an essential part of a particular mortgage offer,  if it 
so wished, as long as it made Ms W aware  of this so she could decide  whether to accept 
that offer, including taking out PPI.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  at the time of the sale, and none  of Ms Ws 
paperwork is available. But Nationwide has been able to provide  samples  of the paperwork it 
was using at the time. This includes  a sample leaflet setting out details of the mortgage  and 
a sample mortgage  offer document. Im satisfied that both of these documents  likely 
represent what Ms W would have seen when applying for her mortgage. 
The leaflet Ive seen  sets out clearly  that PPI was a compulsory part of particular fixed  rate 
mortgage deals.  And following the application  and agreement to lend process, Ms W would 
Ref: DRN20293822almost certainly have been provided  with a mortgage offer letter from Nationwide  setting out 
the terms of the lending  it was prepared to make  to her, the sample Ive seen from the time 
Ms W took her mortgage also clearly  explained  that PPI was a compulsory condition  of the 
lending.
The issuing of an offer letter was standard industry practice and Im not persuaded that 
something different  happened in Ms Ws case. This allowed  Ms W to review  the offer and to 
decide if she wanted to go ahead or not. On balance I think  it is more  likely than not that the 
condition that it was compulsory for Ms W to have PPI to take up Nationwides  offer of 
lending was contained within the offer letter she received. 
With all this in mind  I think its more likely  than not that Ms W was reasonably made aware  
that she had to have PPI to take out Nationwides mortgage. If she didnt want PPI, she 
could have declined  the offer from Nationwide and sought a different mortgage  elsewhere.
From what  I know of how Nationwide sold PPI, I dont think  it made a personal  
recommendation to Ms W about the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Ms W got the information  she needed to decide  if the policy was 
right for her.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time,  it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - and it looks  like 
the PPI would have been useful for  her if something went  wrong. 
Ms W has said she had very good  sick pay. But the PPI could have  helped  cover her 
mortgage payments  for up to 24 months  if she had been too ill to work,  so significantly 
longer than shes said her sick pay would have  lasted.  It also could have been helpful if she 
had lost her job, and would have meant any savings she had were  available  for other 
essential expenditure and that she didnt need  to sell the shares  she said she had at the 
time. I appreciate that Ms W feels she would never have needed the PPI, but as with any 
insurance, the purpose of PPI is to help with the unexpected  and she was, after all, 
borrowing a significant  amount of money that was secured against her home.  It also looks  
like the policy was affordable. So with everything  Ive seen, I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put Ms W off taking out the cover, it could  have provided  her with 
a useful benefit. 
With all this in mind, I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold to Ms W, so Im not going to ask 
Nationwide to refund to her any of the premiums she paid.
Ms W has also asked  us to look at the commission she paid on her PPI policy. In 2017, 
following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority issued some rules  
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about the non-disclosure  of commission  
where PPI was sold. 
These rules  and the Supreme  Court judgment  relate to the unfair relationship  provisions in 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions came into force on 
6 April 2007 and only apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or 
agreements taken out before then, which were still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Nationwide has given  us information that shows Ms Ws mortgage was taken out in 1993 
and ended in 1997. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
Ref: DRN20293823provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Ms W paid for the PPI she had 
with her mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2029382