K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc failed to cancel or recover an international payment he 
made from his current account. 
background
Mr C has a current account  with TSB and on 5 September 2018, he made an international 
payment to a company in Germany (the payee). This payment was for a total of €77,500 
and was completed via online banking, around  lunchtime of that day.  
Shortly afterwards, the payee notified  Mr C that the account hed intended to pay was in fact 
closed on 3 September 2018 and was therefore unable to receive the payment. Mr C 
contacted TSB the afternoon of 5 September 2018  and asked for the payment to be 
cancelled because he didnt want  the payment to go astray. By doing this, he thought the 
payment wouldnt  leave his account  because hed cancelled it only a couple  of hours after 
making it online. TSB had also given him a confirmation receipt when the payment was first 
made, which explained that the money would leave his account  in two to three  days   so 
Mr C was confident  hed made the cancellation in time.   
However, TSB advised Mr C that because hed authorised  the payment, it was unable to be 
stopped by the time he asked for it to be cancelled. It said it would contact the payee to 
request a refund and it could take up to six weeks to recall the money. TSB explained that, 
because it was an international  payment, the money had been sent to an intermediary  bank, 
Banco de Sabadell, before being  sent to the payees  bank in Germany. So, Banco de 
Sabadell would be involved in contacting the payee bank to ask for the recall. 
Mr C raised a complaint  with TSB,  stating  that it made an error in processing the payment 
after hed cancelled  it. He then contacted TSB on a number of occasions to seek  updates on 
the recall attempt. He claims  to have been given  inconsistent information, because  TSB had 
information that indicated the money had successfully  credited the payees  account. Yet, his 
contact (i.e. the payee)  said it hadnt  been received. Mr C also says he wasnt kept updated 
on TSBs efforts to contact the payee  bank. Rather, he continually had to chase for any 
information on its progress.    
TSB pointed  to the terms and conditions of the account, which state that in such 
circumstances it cant be held responsible for guaranteeing the money would  be returned. It 
said it made reasonable efforts  to reclaim  the money, because it was sent almost  
immediately after Mr C made  the payment online. And it was his responsibility  to ensure the 
payee account details were correct  when initiating the payment. So, despite  the 
whereabouts of the money remaining unknown at the time,  it didnt  agree that it should do 
any more for the complaint.
Mr C remained  unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service  and one of our 
investigators looked into it. Ultimately, she agreed that TSB isnt required to successfully 
reclaim the money for Mr C and it had made  reasonable efforts  to recover  it. However, in 
light of the customer  service it had given  Mr C, she recommended it award him £150 
compensation. TSB agreed with this recommendation. 
Mr C does not agree. Hes unhappy  that the money  appears to have been received by the 
German bank  but not to the account  that he intended to pay. 
Ref: DRN27843632The payment was for a form of investment and the company he intended to pay still doesnt 
have the money,  so hes at a loss. Also, he claims its untrue that the money immediately  left 
TSB once  the payment  was submitted.  Especially  as it went to Banco de Sabadell as an 
intermediary  because  this bank is part of Sabadell Banking Group  which TSB is also a part 
of. Therefore, he thinks TSB should be required to do more  to put things right for him, 
including refunding the payment in full and awarding  more than £150 compensation.  
Because Mr C doesnt agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that it should be upheld  but only in part. Ill explain why. 
As a UK payment  service  provider, TSB must  follow the statutory rules in The Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 [2017/752] (the regulations). Amongst other things, the 
regulations set out the obligations of a payment service provider when executing  a payment 
order. A payment  order is defined in section 2 of the regulations as any instruction given by 
the payer (in this case Mr C) to their respective payment service provider (TSB), requesting  
the execution  of a payment transaction.
Its not in dispute  that Mr C initially  gave  instructions for TSB to execute the payment 
transaction on 5 September 2018; and TSB duly executed it in favour  of the payee  account 
details he provided.  We know that he acted in accordance with the online procedure  TSB 
provides customers for such  payment orders to be made  from the account. And he initiated 
the payment through a procedure that instructed TSB to send it as soon as possible. 
According to the regulations, the payment  is to be regarded as having  been authorised by 
the payer if he has given  his consent to the execution of the transaction. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr C consented  to and authorised the payment which TSB 
executed. 
TSB submits that Mr C requested the payment  be cancelled too late. It says the type of 
payment may have  contributed  to its speed  and irrevocability. As the payee held an account 
with a German bank,  it was made within the Single Euro Payments Area  (SEPA). SEPA 
allows for fast and secure transfers across  international borders. In fact, according  to the 
European Central Bank, the speed of processing is no longer than one business day for 
electronic payment orders,  such as the one Mr C made. 
The regulations state that the payer may withdraw his consent  to a payment transaction  at 
any time before the point at which the payment order can no longer be revoked. In other  
words, Mr C could  cancel  the payment up until a certain point. Under  regulation 83 
(Revocation of a payment order),  a payment  service  user may not revoke a payment  order  
after it has been received by the payers payment  service provider. 
TSB has provided documentary evidence  to support when the payment was authorised. By 
his own admission, Mr C accepts the time that he first made the payment. Indeed, hes 
submitted that he received the payment confirmation  shortly  afterwards. We know that SEPA 
can allow for quick international  payments  and I see no compelling evidence that leads me 
to conclude that this particular  payment didnt qualify for the intended  benefit  of such  speed.  
Ref: DRN27843633So, Mr C made  the request for the execution of the payment when he submitted the order  
online  and TSB received this request as the payers payment service provider. Therefore, 
Im satisfied that TSB could not reasonably  or lawfully  be expected to have revoked the 
payment.   
TSB told Mr C that it was his responsibility to make  sure that he gave it the correct 
information for the account he wanted to pay. When making the payment, Mr C submitted 
certain account information, otherwise  known  as unique identifiers. This specific 
information is significant, because its what mattered during the process of the payee 
German bank matching unique identifiers to the account that was intended to be credited. 
Mr C doesnt dispute that these unique  identifiers  turned  out to be incorrect, as they related 
to a closed account. Regulation 90 of the regulations sets out the obligations of a payment 
service provider when  incorrect  unique identifiers are given. Amongst other things, it states 
that: Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified by the unique 
identifier.
Therefore, TSB is not responsible for the payment not going  where  Mr C intended it to  
because it met its obligation  to execute the transaction in accordance  with the unique  
identifiers provided.  Considering the regulations  and the terms and conditions of Mr Cs 
contract with TSB, Im satisfied that these make it clear that TSB is not responsible  if the 
payment goes to someone else if the payer (or indeed intended payee) gave incorrect 
information. So, overall, Im not persuaded that TSB should be held liable for the payment  
not going to the payee  on time or at all. 
An intermediary bank  essentially  supports a payment order  to enable it to cross country  
borders. Banco de Sabadell is a payment service provider and acted as an intermediary to 
help TSB facilitate Mr Cs payment. Within this complaint,  I can only consider  the acts or 
omissions of TSB as a discrete  legal entity.  A limited company  whether public or private  
has no immanent legal  liability  for its parent company or other group companies. So, Im 
unable to comment on how Banco de Sabadell acted  even if both companies are part of 
the same  banking group. The evidence shows TSB provided this intermediary with the 
correct unique identifiers,  according to Mr Cs payment instruction; and that Banco de 
Sabadell received this information  after the payment order  had been received by TSB as the 
payers payment  service  provider.    
In accordance with the regulations, the payment was correctly executed by each payment 
service provider involved in the payment order. It follows that I cannot reasonably conclude 
that there  was a failing  by TSB or the intermediary it used. Moreover, the payment order was 
received by TSB before  Banco de Sabadell helped facilitate it. Therefore, the order had 
already passed  the point of possible revocation   and, for the reasons explained, its 
immaterial that TSB and Banco  de Sabadell  form part of the same wider  banking group.
Notwithstanding the above, Regulation 90 goes on to state that a payment service provider 
must make reasonable  efforts to recover the funds  involved in the payment transaction,  
when provided  with the incorrect unique  identifiers.  So, TSB ought to have  tried to recover  
Mr Cs money  from the payee  bank.  Ive therefore thought  carefully about the steps TSB 
took to meet  this obligation. 
Ref: DRN27843634In order for the money to be recovered,  TSB needed  to contact the payee bank. I understand 
the normal process is that a request is made  from the sending bank, such as TSB, and it 
must wait for the payee banks response. Intermediary banks can help with this, by 
exchanging messages with the payee  bank on the sending banks behalf. In this case, the 
SWIFT payment  system was used by Banco de Sabadell as the intermediary for TSB.  
SWIFT enables institutions  to securely  send and receive information on financial 
transactions in a standardised way and is well-established in recall requests.
A number  of messages were sent to the payee bank. The first of which  was sent on 
11 September 2018, around six days after Mr Cs request for the payment to be cancelled. 
The message did make it clear that the payer wanted the payment returned. And 
subsequent messages also made this clear,  with repeated requests for the whereabouts of 
the funds to be urgently confirmed. These included two SWIFT messages sent in    
September 2018; another in October 2018;  and finally one on 31 December 2018. 
TSB received two responses via Banco  de Sabadell  but neither was conclusive in where 
the money had ended up. And both of these messages  advised  that a reply from the payee 
bank hadnt yet been received. In fact, TSB hasnt actually  received any response from the 
payee bank. Instead, its drawn its own conclusion that its likely the funds are with this bank;  
based on the successful execution of the payment and the lack of response.  
It doesnt appear to be in question that TSBs first attempt to recover  the payment was made 
almost a week after Mr C asked for it to be cancelled. Mr C claims this is a slow reaction and 
one that has contributed to the unsuccessful  attempt at recovering  the money. Its possible 
that TSB could have  acted quicker  than it did. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that TSB did send 
a number of messages and, ultimately,  the payee  bank didnt respond to any of these  
requests. Theres no clear evidence, just conjecture, that any delay caused or contributed to 
difficulties in recovering the funds. 
Despite any initial delay  in contacting  the payee bank, TSB demonstrated an understanding  
of the urgency of Mr Cs request  for the money back. It chased a response at least three 
times and endeavoured to seek clarification on the availability of the funds. Likewise,  it 
repeatedly attempted to draw  attention  to the recall request by appealing over a matter of 
months. So, overall, Im persuaded  the steps it took to recover  Mr Cs money did amount to 
reasonable efforts in line with its statutory  duty.
Whether the payment was successfully recovered by TSB depended on the payee giving its 
consent to allow the money  to return.  TSB couldnt control whether the payee and/or its bank 
gave this permission.  Therefore,  I dont find it unreasonable that TSB reached the decision 
that the absence of a response from the payee implied that it didnt consent to the return of 
the payment.  Indeed, it doesnt  appear that TSBs  requests were even acknowledged. So, 
its my opinion  that TSB is right in saying  it didnt have  the required consent  for the money to 
be returned. 
Ultimately, if an authorised payment goes astray and cant  reasonably be recovered  through  
no fault of the payment service provider,  it is for the payer to seek  recovery  from the unjustly-
enriched party through court action  for restitution. The regulations oblige payment service  
providers to give Mr C all available, relevant information in order to facilitate  this. 
Mr C submits that TSB gave misleading information  in the payment confirmation.  However,  
he received this confirmation once the payment had already been made. 
Ref: DRN27843635Beforehand, he didnt ask TSB to make the payment on an agreed future date,  nor did he 
instruct TSB to delay payment. On the contrary, Mr C initially intended for the payment to 
reach the payee at the earliest opportunity  and TSB acted  on this instruction. It was only 
once it transpired  that the account details he entered were incorrect  that he sought to rely 
upon that information  by which time it was already too late. In other words, Im not satisfied  
that Mr C relied to his detriment upon such information. He didnt act on the basis of any 
promise or guarantee of there being time to stop or cancel the payment. 
Finally, turning to the concerns Mr C has raised  about the customer service he received, I 
can see that he was left frustrated by not being  given clear guidance on what to expect and 
when in relation  to TSBs recall  attempts. I also appreciate that he was disappointed with the 
lack of response to his calls and emails. Ive therefore considered  whether an award of 
compensation for distress or inconvenience is appropriate. Our investigator recommended  
an award of £150.  I agree  that this award  is a proportionate reflection of the impact  of the 
poor communications and/or  guidance. 
my final decision
For the reason  set out above, I partly uphold the complaint and require TSB Bank  plc to pay 
Mr C a total of £150 compensation,  if it hasnt  already done  so, within  28 days of receiving 
notice from us of his acceptance of this decision, failing which  interest will start to accrue on 
this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year (less any tax properly deductible) until the date of 
payment. Mr C should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  and he 
wouldnt be able to take further  action  over these matters against TSB. If, however, he 
rejects the decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights against TSB will remain intact. 
Accepting the decision shouldnt affect  his legal rights against third parties,  such  as the 
payee. But if Mr C is unsure about this, he will need  to seek  independent  legal advice on the 
doctrine of merger  and the effect of the Court of Appeals judgment in the case  of Clark v In 
Focus Asset  Management & Tax Solutions  Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 118. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2784363