K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that an email Tesco  Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank,  sent to 
him concerning promotional rates  for balance transfers was misleading.  
background
Mr S has a credit card with Tesco  Bank, which he said he applied for to take advantage of its 
0% balance transfer rate. He said the 0% interest  rate on a balance  transfer  he made  was 
due to expire on 14 July 2018. After Mr S had the card for a few months  he said he received 
an email from Tesco  Bank  on 6 March 2018  which said:
As part of our ongoing service, we are writing to let you know  the rates  and charges 
that will apply to balance  transfers and money  transfers made until 6 April 2018. 
These rates are personal to you, are not transferable and do not require  a 
promotional code. 
Your balance transfer rate: 0% interest on balance transfers until your April 2019 
statement (2.99% fee, min.5.00)."
Mr S said he took this to mean the interest  rate on his credit card would  now be 0% until 
April 2019, so he did not make any attempt to clear the remaining balance on the card 
before 14 July 2018. Mr S said he found  out later that this offer was only valid for additional  
balance transfers  and the 0% interest on the outstanding balance  would still expire  in July 
2018. He complained to the bank.  
Tesco Bank said it hadnt made any error.  But, it said,  as interest was chargeable at the time 
of the final response  letter, it waived interest for two months as a gesture of good  will in 
order to give Mr S time to decide if he wanted to continue  using  the card or look for an 
alternative product.  Mr S remained unhappy and brought  his complaint to this service.  He 
believed the language of Tesco  Banks promotional email was at best unclear and at worst 
intentionally misleading.
Our investigator didnt  think Tesco Banks email confirmed existing balance  transfer  rates 
would be extended.  Mr S didnt agree and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
He maintained the email was misleading  especially  when  considering  the email header.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S but having  done  so I wont be asking Tesco  Bank to do anything 
further. 
Mr S has said he believes  the email wording is unclear  and misleading.  On the surface  the 
email does not specifically mention the offer is an extension to his existing 0% offer. But Mr 
S said he took it to mean that especially  given  the header of the email which said:
Updates to your Tesco credit card
I can understand why Mr S might think this but I think its normal for a bank to keep its 
customers up to date with offers that are available. Its also possible that customers may 
Ref: DRN20614192have other  balances they may wish to transfer. The email says rates and charges that will 
apply to balance  transfers made. It does not say rates and charges that will apply to balance  
transfers that have  already been  completed, existing balance transfers or similar such 
wording. So Im satisfied  the email was not intentionally misleading  nor was it sufficiently 
unclear for it to be reasonable that customers would think it applied to existing  transfers. 
But even if I was satisfied  the email was unclear or misleading I must also consider the 
context in which the email  was sent. Mr S has said he took out another  credit  card as a 
result of the email and from his statement I can see Mr S also took a money  advance  on 21 
March 2018. Mr S was aware his promotional 0% interest rate was due to finish in July so it 
wouldve been prudent to confirm with Tesco Bank whether the extension applied  to his 
existing balance transfer given his cost of borrowing would rise and especially as it was his 
intention to take out additional credit. I also note the following message at the very top of the 
May 2018 credit card statement:
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Please note that your new introductory money  transfer rate and balance transfer rate 
will expire 14/07/2018, the standard  monthly variable rate will apply after that date.
While I accept it would be helpful  to have this information on every statement Im satisfied 
that in May Mr S was reminded,  through the statement, that his introductory interest rate 
would expire in July and it wouldve  been  sensible for Mr S to contact Tesco  Bank to confirm  
the interest situation.  This was followed  by a letter from Tesco  Bank on 25 June confirming 
the expiry of the introductory rates on his credit  card in July 2018.  So Im satisfied Tesco  
Bank hasnt  done  anything  wrong and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2061419