K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr S says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mr S that he had a choice  about  it. 
But Mr S says he was unaware the PPI was added  and didnt  knowingly  agree to it.
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mrs Ss application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mr S wanted to take it out. And the box has been 
ticked.
Mr S has said that the tick in the PPI box is different to the other tick on the form, and so 
doesnt think it was him that ticked the PPI box. But, while  the ticks are different, I dont  think  
theres enough evidence to say that the PPI box was ticked against Mr Ss wishes.
Based on the evidence  I have, and what I understand about Barclays sales  practices at the 
time, I think its likely  it was made  clear  to Mr S that he had a choice about the PPI. And that 
Mr S chose to take it, knowing he didnt  have to.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like Mr S 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And Mrs S said he 
didnt have any savings  or other means he couldve used to make his repayments  if he 
wasnt earning. So the PPI would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr S off taking it out.
Ref: DRN20275702my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2027570