K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have mishandled  his travel 
insurance claim.
background
Mr P contacted Aviva on 14 April 2018 while on holiday to explain that his luggage had been  
lost by the airline he had flown with. Aviva say at this point a claim was set up and a 
notification sent to the airline to advise  that they may seek  to recover any amount paid as a 
result of the loss. 
Mr P contacted Aviva again on 19 April 2018  to explain that he was still without his luggage, 
and enquired about the possibility of returning home early, which Aviva said would not be 
covered. The insurer  says that they also gave Mr P details of a legal help line to see if there 
was anything that could be done to assist with his dispute with the airline. 
Following Mr Ps contact with Aviva, he became increasingly dissatisfied  with the service he 
received and the way they were  handling matters. His complaint includes,  but is not strictly 
limited to:
Having to spend a significant amount of time on the phone  with Avivas  agents who 
were unprofessional, asked for things that were not required while he was overseas and 
who often mixed  up his policies;
Avivas handling of the matter has resulted in an unreasonable delay in the claims process 
for his emergency  items purchased and his claim with the airline for the lost luggage;
Aviva made an illegal and false representation to the airline claiming that Mr P had given 
them full mandate  to act on his behalf against the airline in relation to any claim for 
damages and breach  of contract. 
Aviva failed  to provide him with a letter that he required in order  to commence a claim 
for loss against  the airline,  which would  allow him to maximise his compensation when 
combined with the maximum amount payable under  the policy  of £2500 for his luggage, 
as well as a potential  claim against  his credit  card provider; 
Once the losses for his luggage  have been settled, Aviva must then provide Mr P with 
legal assistance  to bring  a claim for breach of contract against the airline with a view to 
obtaining further damages for his lost luggage; 
Aviva have made false and misleading statements to this service with regards to their 
handling of his case.
Aviva say that Mr P was not clear  with them as to what he required,  and what he wanted 
them to do, which led to confusion and poor service as a result of the lack of understanding 
of what he expected. Mr P says that after making several phone calls,  Aviva eventually 
agreed to pay him £100 compensation and issue the letter  he required, which he received on 
21 November 2018.
However, Mr P says that he now seeks to recover £5,000 in damages from Aviva, on top of 
the £2,500 policy limit applicable to his lost luggage.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint as she didnt think Avivas handling of the matter 
was unfair,  as she thought they had tried their best to put things right and understand what  it 
was he ultimately wanted. Mr P disagreed,  so the complaint  was passed to me to determine.  
Ref: DRN29575542I issued my provisional decision on 25 March 2020,  where I said I did not intend upholding 
Mr Ps complaint for the reasons set out below:
Aviva initially  sent their final response  to Mr Ps complaint on 26 April 2018. However, 
matters evolved  from here,  and he had further  correspondence with the insurer about  their 
handling of his lost luggage  claim  most notably  over two lengthy phone  calls that took 
place on 2 June  2018 and 8 June 2018.  
Aviva did not offer any compensation  in their first final response. However, following Mr Ps 
discussion with Aviva on 8 June 2018, they subsequently agreed to pay £100 compensation. 
Mr P then referred the matter to this service in July 2018. I would  like to assure Mr P that I 
have considered all the information  he has sent us, and have listened to all the phone calls 
provided by Aviva  including  the calls he had with them on both 2 June 2018 and 
8 June 2018. 
Having listened  to these calls, it is clear  Mr P was upset that Aviva had contacted the airline 
that had lost his luggage.  This was because his policy limit for lost luggage would not have 
covered the full extent of his losses, and he wanted to be able to take separate  action 
against the airline to recover any remaining losses. However, after contacting the airline for 
this purpose, he was told that they had been contacted  by Aviva and would now only be 
dealing with them.
Aviva said that they contacted the airline  on 14 April 2018 to explain that a claim had been 
made, and that upon settlement they will request reimbursement,  which  is standard in such 
circumstances. But Mr P says that what they consider to be a routine email is in fact a full 
mandate to act on his behalf  in relation  to any claim for damages and breach of contract, 
which he says he did not give.  
But I do not consider  that Avivas interaction with the airline in any way amounts to a 
declaration that they are acting on Mr Ps behalf for such matters. It was simply a notification 
from the insurer that he had been  in contact with them about his lost luggage and that they 
may seek to request  reimbursement or a contribution from the airline for any outlay as a 
result of the loss, given  that his luggage  was lost while under their responsibility.  It is simply 
the insurers right of subrogation and is common practice in the insurance industry where 
there is a third-party  that is responsible for the loss. They would not be able to recover  their 
losses without such a notification, and it also prevents  a customer  from being  able to claim 
twice from two separate parties, which is why the airline said they would  only deal with the 
insurer given that there  was a pending  claim  not because they were purporting to act on 
his behalf in relation to a claim for breach of contract.
Mr P says that Aviva were wrong  to contact the airline, as he had not actually made a claim 
at that point, and had not submitted any particulars of what  his losses were. He says that this 
delayed matters, because  the airline  then refused to deal with him until he obtained a letter  
from Aviva  stating that they were not in fact dealing with any part of his claim.
Given that Mr P had contacted Aviva in relation to his lost luggage, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for them to have contacted the airline  in anticipation of a claim,  because if he 
never intended on making one, there  would  have been no need to inform  them  of the lost 
luggage in the first place. However,  I appreciate they could have  clarified this with him at the 
outset, and that their actions did then impact his ability  to deal directly with the airline when 
he wanted to. But Aviva acknowledged  this in their call of 8 June 2018, where they offered 
Mr P £100  compensation, which I think is a fair reflection of the impact their actions had in 
terms of the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Ref: DRN29575543Mr P says he required a letter from Aviva to say that they were  not dealing  with the claim, 
and that he requested this during the phone call he had with them on 8 June 2018, but that 
he did not receive it until November 2018. But having listened to the phone  call, I cant  see 
that Mr P did request  such a letter at this time. The agent offers compensation and says that 
he has written  up an email  with the policy limits  which,  if you want  to take this to the airline, 
you can do so. But Mr P did not ask the agent to state that Aviva were not dealing  with any 
part of the claim. Indeed, a good proportion of the call was spent discussing the various 
issues he had with his prospective claim.
Aviva say that Mr P did not make any such request until at least 11 July 2018. If it did take 
them several months to action any such request,  I agree  that this is a poor standard of 
service. However, Aviva  say Mr P did not always make it clear what he wanted, which led to 
confusion on their part and a level of service which they concede fell below an acceptable 
standard on occasion. But given  that Aviva  have already paid £100 compensation, I do not 
think any higher award is warranted in these circumstances,  as Im satisfied this this is still 
an adequate reflection  of the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
Mr P says that he wants Aviva to pay him £5,000 in damages. But I do not consider that 
Avivas actions have caused  Mr P any financial loss that they can fairly be held responsible  
for. There isnt, for example, any identifiable  wrong  committed by Aviva  that was the 
proximate cause of any loss he sustained. So there  is no reasonable basis in which  an 
award of damages  could  be made  in this instance.  
This leaves  the remaining elements of service  complained about.  Mr P says that he has 
been poorly treated throughout his dealings with Aviva, which  has caused him distress  and 
inconvenience, which he wants to be compensated for. He says,  for example, that he has 
had to spend hours of his time on the phone talking  to Aviva. But having listened  to the 
phone calls provided, I do not think the length  of time spent on these calls was due to 
Avivas handling  of the matter.
The calls of 2 June  2018 and 8 June  2018, for example, were  both around  two hours long. 
But a large  proportion of this was Mr P putting various unsubstantiated allegations  to the 
agent, saying  they had acted fraudulently, has misled him, were  not acting in his best 
interests etc. And it appears to me that the agents were  letting  Mr P get his thoughts off his 
chest, and that they were listening to his concerns  and providing reassurance  where they 
could. Mr P also spent quite a lot of time discussing what had happened with his suitcase, 
and who was to blame  which,  of course,  is not something Aviva  is responsible  for given  that 
it was lost by the airline. He also spends  time talking about his frustration at having to 
remember everything that was in his suitcase for the purposes  of the claim, and also 
discussing past claims he has made.
But overall, I think that the agents  who spoke to Mr P dealt with him professionally, and with 
patience and respect. I appreciate he may have  been frustrated by the loss of his luggage  
and the impact this had on his holiday.  But in the circumstances, given all the topics  Mr P 
wanted to cover with the agents  he spoke  to, I think they tried their best to understand what  
his concerns were, and to try and provide  help where they could. 
Ref: DRN29575544For example, on 2 June  2018, Mr P says he would  want to know which particular items of 
luggage Avivas  £2,500  would cover in his claim,  as certain items may be excluded from any 
claims he might want to make with the airline or his credit card company. So the agent  said 
that if he were to tell them what might  be excluded by the third-party  organisations, Aviva  
could look to say they have paid X amount towards  such  items (if covered under the policy 
assumedly) in order to increase his chances of having  more items covered elsewhere. The 
agent Mr P spoke to on 8 June 2018  also asked him how they could put things right for him. 
So Im satisfied that Aviva treated Mr P fairly  and reasonably in their dealings with him, and I 
cannot fairly hold them  responsible for the amount of time he spent  on the phone with them. 
Finally, once the losses for his luggage have  been settled, Mr P says that Aviva must then 
provide him with legal  assistance to bring a claim  for breach of contract against the airline  
with a view to obtaining further damages for his lost luggage. But having  reviewed  the policy 
wording it covers:
Legal expenses cover  If, during the trip, an incident causes  the death or injury of 
an insured person which was not the insured persons fault we will provide a lawyer 
and up to £50,000 for legal costs to pursue a claim.
So it does not appear that the legal action  Mr P is looking to pursue would be covered under  
the policy, so Aviva  are under no obligation  to provide the legal assistance he has requested. 
In summary,  having reviewed all the evidence and Avivas handling of matters,  I accept that 
the service Mr P received has fallen below standard  on occasion  and could have been better 
I  which the insurer  has also conceded. But in the circumstances, I consider  the £100  
compensation theyve  offered to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact their poor 
service has had. So I do not intend asking  them to award any further compensation.
developments
I invited both parties to provide further  comments and evidence before  making  my final 
decision. Aviva accepted  my findings,  but Mr P disagreed.  In summary, he said:
He never made a claim with Aviva, so they should not have  contacted the airline under 
any circumstances. He also says the £100 compensation paid by Aviva on 8 July 2018  
was paid only in relation  to the points  discussed on that phone call, and not in relation to 
anything else he was unhappy with.
The case against Aviva is all about  what happened from July 2018 onwards, and he 
made his complaint  because they refused to address his telephone calls of July 2018,  
and then further refused to deal with him when he returned from his trip overseas in 
November 2018.
I have not listened to a phone call he had in November 2018  with Avivas senior claims 
handler where the letter  for the airline  was eventually issued. Mr P has also provided  the 
letter issued by Aviva  in November 2018.
Mr P has also raised concerns about the service we have provided him and the 
information/evidence relied on in his case.
Ref: DRN29575545my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  Mr Ps most recent 
submissions  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
First, a significant part of Mr Ps response to my provisional decision related to the service 
he has received from the Financial Ombudsman Service.  I understand he has raised 
complaints about  the service he has received. However, I am unable  to comment on his 
concerns about  our service within my final decision  which is concerned  solely with the 
merits of his complaint  about Aviva. 
Mr P has also said that we have not given him a fair chance to provide all the documentation  
and evidence relevant to his complaint. It is for Mr P to provide the information  he considers 
to be relevant. And we have given him plenty of opportunity in which to do this, including  the 
deadline I set in my provisional decision where  I invited further comments  or evidence from 
both parties. In response, Mr P has provided further  submissions, as well as a letter sent to 
him by Aviva  in November  2018.  So I do not consider he has been  deprived of the chance to 
put his case forwards  or to provide  any information  he deems relevant. Therefore, I have 
based my decision  on all the information provided by both parties to date. 
Mr P says I have misunderstood his complaint,  and that it is all about what happened from 
July 2018. But I do not believe that I have. Everything I have referenced  in my provisional 
decision has been based on the submissions  he has made since  bringing  his case to us in 
July 2018  where certain submissions have  focussed on what Aviva  did on 14 April 2018,  
for example, when  they contacted the airline. I appreciate the complaint may have  changed 
for Mr P over time, but I would like to reassure him that I have considered this matter  
completely and holistically.
Mr P has reiterated that he never made a claim with Aviva,  so they should not have  
contacted the airline under any circumstances. In my provisional decision, I said I didnt think 
it was unreasonable for Aviva to assume  that Mr P had contacted  them in anticipation of a 
claim  otherwise there would have been no need for him to discuss how he intended to 
maximise the recovery of his losses by claiming from both the insurer  and the airline/credit 
card company. 
But I did agree  that they ought to have clarified with Mr P from the outset whether he 
intended to make a claim, and that their actions did have an impact on his ability to deal 
directly with the airline. Mr P has provided  a letter sent by Aviva in November 2018,  where  
they apologise for contacting the airline and reiterate that they have paid £100 compensation 
in recognition of the difficulties he faced in initiating  a claim with the airline. I still consider 
this to be reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr P says that the £100 compensation was paid only in relation to the points he discussed 
with Aviva over the phone on 8 July 2018.  That may be so. But having considered everything 
holistically  and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision   I still do not think  any 
further compensation is warranted. I accept that there were  delays in Aviva issuing the letter  
he needed to initiate a claim against the airline.  And I accept that their service  could  have 
been better at times. But as Ive already explained,  I do not think Mr P always made  it easy 
for Aviva to understand  what  it was he wanted  them to do, or what it was that he needed. So 
I will not be awarding any further compensation, as I still think  that the amount paid already 
is commensurate to the distress and inconvenience caused in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN29575546my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2957554