K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited have unfairly added 
an exclusion  to her pet insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Red Sands, this includes their agents and claims  handlers.  
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of the key points here.  
In September  2012 Mrs H took out pet insurance for her dog S which  was provided by Red 
Sands. The policy was purchased over the telephone, but due to the passage of time a 
recording of the call is no longer available. 
Mrs H renewed  her policy for a number  of years. In 2017 she sought to make a claim  for 
irritable bowel disease (IBD). As a result of investigating  the claim Red Sands looked at Ss 
clinical history. 
In summary,  Red Sands  say that the history included symptoms and treatments that pre-
dated the policy. So they added an exclusion  from the start of the policy. The exclusion was 
for all claims  with respect to the digestive system.  Red Sands  say had they known  the full 
details of Ss history, they would have included the exclusion  at the time. 
Mrs H complained to both Red Sands and our service  she was unhappy that the exclusion 
had been added and that her claim had been  declined. One of our investigators  thought  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded that as Red Sands couldnt  evidence what 
questions Mrs H was asked at the start of the policy, it wasnt fair for them to add the 
exclusion. Red Sands disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
On 14 May 2020 I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive read through all the submissions by both parties including Ss clinical  history.  But I wont  
be repeating that level of detail here and will only refer to what I feel is necessary to explain 
my intended  decision.  
Red Sands  have explained  that to comply  with data protection legislation,  they dont  keep 
call recordings  indefinitely. I dont think this is unreasonable and I can understand why they 
no longer having a call recording from 2012.  But for reasons  that Ill come  to, I think  this 
complaint can still be fairly  decided  without having that call recording. 
I understand that Mrs H maintained her cover with Red Sands  from 2012 to 2018. Mrs Hs 
policy says that there isnt any cover for Any claim or costs  relating to a pre-existing 
condition(s) or for an accident, illness or injury  that first showed clinical  signs at any time 
before the commencement date of the policy
Terms like these  are very common in this type of insurance and I dont think this is inherently 
unfair. Red Sands are setting out that they will provide cover against S developing an illness, 
Ref: DRN23243112condition or having an accident  during the period of insurance. But if there  was something 
that first showed signs prior to the policy starting, it isnt covered.
When making the claim in 2017  for IBD Red Sands relied on the exclusion  that they added 
when they found out about Ss history and in particular  the surgery that had happened  in 
2008. This was the exclusion of all claims with respect to the digestive  system. The 
application of this was challenged by Mrs Hs vet. So, Red Sands asked Dr H, a consultant 
veterinary surgeon,  to look at Ss history. 
Dr H said The vet is right, the foreign body removal is unlikely to be contributing Seems  
like a clear diagnosis here All these years of symptoms are IBD linked, and there is no 
question in the history  this dog has IBD. Which  is an immune led disease, inherited and 
would have been there from the beginning.
Ss notes  include numerous  references  to digestive  complaints  in 2008 and 2009. She was 
placed on a sensitivity  diet at various  times from 2009 onwards and there  was a claim to the 
previous insurer for gastroenteritis in February  2010.  I think  its fair for Red Sands to rely on 
the expert opinion of Dr H and he considered that the IBD was there from the start and had 
shown clinical signs before the start of the policy.  
In summary,  Ss vet notes show signs of digestive  issues prior to cover commencing with 
Red Sands  in 2012  with the gastroenteritis from 2010 being  one example of this. There  is 
also Dr Hs opinion (having reviewed  Ss history) that these signs are linked to the IBD that 
was diagnosed in 2017. Taking everything into consideration  I think  it was fair for Red Sands 
to decline Mrs Hs claim on the basis that it relates to a pre-existing condition. The exclusion 
for pre-existing conditions  was made clear in the Key Facts documents, so I think  Red 
Sands did enough to bring it to Mrs Hs attention. 
However, I dont think Red Sands treated  Mrs H fairly when  adding  the exclusion all claims 
with respect to the digestive system  and backdating  this to the start of the policy.
There is a term within  the policy  which gives Red Sands the right to add an exclusion if S 
showed any clinical signs or an illness prior to the commencement date of the policy.  But the 
exclusion Red Sands  added is much wider  and excluded cover for the whole digestive 
system. Thats not in line with the policy terms, which allow  them to add an exclusion for the 
specific condition. 
Further to this, the remedy for an insurer  to go back in time and retrospectively apply an 
exclusion is set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  
(or CIDRA). This places a consumer under the duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation when entering into (or varying) an insurance contract. For a remedy  to be 
available to Red Sands  under CIDRA,  they would need to establish that Mrs H failed  to 
answer a clear question  about Ss health  with reasonable care.  They would also need  to 
show that if Mrs H had taken reasonable care, they would only have offered her a policy that 
excluded cover for all issues relating to the digestive system. 
Red Sands  havent  been  able to show that Mrs H has made  a misrepresentation in line with 
CIDRA. So I dont think  it was fair for them to add the exclusion retrospectively.  However,  as 
Ive covered, I think the claim  was fairly declined as I think they have shown that it relates  to 
a pre-existing condition.  Taking everything into account, I dont think it was fair for Red 
Sands to add the broad  exclusion to Mrs Hs policy. So, I intend to direct that if the policy  is 
still in place, they remove it. 
Ref: DRN23243113Red Sands  responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add. 
Mrs H also responded  and said that she had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  further to 
add in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome Ive 
previously explained.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  must remove  the exclusion all claims with 
respect to the digestive system  from Mrs Hs policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2324311