K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that MYJAR Limited  approved loans when she thinks they should not have 
been given to her. Miss B thinks that they were unaffordable. 
background
Using information provided by MYJAR  here is a summary of the approved loans  for Miss B. 
In January 2019, MYJAR informed Miss B that it had placed  a hold on the outstanding 
balance of just under £465 while the complaint was progressed.  
Loan Date Amount Instalment information - 
rounded sums Repaid date
(agreed repay 
date)
1 23 December 
2015£200 3 x £97 18 March 2016
repaid on time
2 25 April 2016 £300 1 x £134 and 
2 x £14719 June 2016  
(18 July 2016)
3 26 October 
2016£500 6 x £143 18 April 2017
repaid on time 
Three loans applied for in April and May 2017  and not approved
4 21 June 2017 £300 12 x £45 Due 18 June 
2018  unpaid 
MYJARs final response letter to Miss B concluded  that we are unable to uphold your 
complaint based  on the application  information,  income and expenditure, which you provided  
and the subsequent checks  we conducted  each time you applied. We did not re-finance your 
loan, you had to repay  your loan in full, before being  able to re-apply and we do not, as a 
business, allow rollovers.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that MYJAR should put things 
right for Miss B in relation to Loan  4. 
Neither Miss B nor MYJAR had anything else to send us before the complaint  was passed to 
me.
Miss B appears not to have disagreed  with the adjudicators view and from that it seems  that 
Loans 1 to 3 which were  not upheld appear  undisputed. So, I do not plan to reconsider 
those. Loan 4 has not been resolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR has received  many decisions from this service and several  from me and so I refer it 
to the earlier  decisions plus those on our website for additional details. 
Ref: DRN23901562As I am looking at Loan 4 only then I can take this quite succinctly. I do think  that MYJAR 
was on notice that Miss B was not coping with her personal finances and I do see that 
MYJAR did not approve three loan applications after she had repaid Loan 3. 
And by June 2017 which was 18 months  into the lending relationship, then I think  that there  
came a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. MYJAR  should  have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
Loan 4 and I say this because:
at this point MYJAR ought to have realised  Miss B was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss B had taken out three loans within  ten months  which all 
increased in amounts  and in lengths of agreement. So, Miss B had been indebted to 
MYJAR for at least 15 months  by the time she had repaid Loan 3. MYJAR ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Miss B was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loans  was leaving in her finances  and that Miss Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Bs first loan was for £200  and loan 4 was for £300. At this point MYJAR ought 
to have known  that Miss B was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need.  Especially when MYJAR was aware  that it 
had refused her three loan applications  in between  the time Miss B had repaid 
Loan 3 and had successfully applied  for Loan 4. 
Loan 4 was for £300 and stretched over 12 months and so although the individual 
repayments may have  been  less than earlier loans  they were over a longer period. 
And on MYJARs own assessment tables it has provided to us then its MAA figure of 
£54 was too close to be comfortable  to the repayment amount of £45 each month for 
Loan 4.  
I think that Miss B lost out because  MYJAR continued to provide borrowing with Loan 4. It 
unfairly prolonged Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing  her to take expensive credit  intended  
for short-term use over an extended  period  of time.  And the length of time over which  Miss B 
borrowed was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability  to access  mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN23901563What MYJAR needs to do to put things right
MYJAR shouldnt have given Mis B Loan  4. If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt it should 
buy it back and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then 
MYJAR should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A)MYJAR  should  add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest,  
fees and charges on Loan  4 without  an outstanding  balance, not including  anything MYJAR  
has already  refunded.
B)MYJAR  should  calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made by Miss B 
which were considered  as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)MYJAR  should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on Loan  4 and treat 
any repayments made by Miss B as though  they had been  repayments of the principal for 
Loan 4. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Miss B. However, if there  is still an outstanding 
balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B.
D)The overall pattern of Miss Bs borrowing for Loan 4 means  any information recorded  about 
it is adverse,  so MYJAR  should remove this loan entirely from Miss Bs credit  file. 
MYJAR does not have  to remove it from Miss Bs credit file until it has been  repaid, but it 
should still remove any adverse payment information recorded. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should  
give Miss B a certificate  showing how much tax MYJAR deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and MYJAR  Limited  should  put 
things right as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2390156