K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Booth Wealth 
Management (UK) Ltd (Booth) to transfer his pension  plans  into a Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with Succession Wealth.  He says the advice he was given was not fully 
explained to him. He also complains that he received  the suitability report  from his adviser 
after his pension transfers had been made.
background
In June 2017, Mr A met with Booth to receive advice on his personal finances, including  his 
pension plans. Mr As wife was also seeking  financial advice from Booth. Shes  also 
complained to this service. Mrs As complaint is being dealt with separately.
A joint financial planning fact find was completed.  It recorded that at the time Mr As personal  
circumstances were  he:
was married to Mrs A, and aged 45 years;
working as a self-employed consultant earning around £50,000 per year;
had around £26,000  in savings  and a £50,000 savings bond;
also, had around £43,000  in defined  contribution  pension plans; and
a further defined benefit pension  plan.
A risk questionnaire was completed  in July 2017.  He was assessed  as being a cautious, 
risk investor.
At a further meeting  in July 2017,  Mr A signed  letters of authority to allow  Booth to obtain 
information about his pensions from the plan providers. 
By return,  it was established that the surrender values  of Mr As defined contribution 
pensions were:
Provider 1 £ 16,318.84
Provider 2 £   8,494.38
Provider 3 £  20,017.81
His defined benefit  pension showed  a total annual pension of around £5,300 per annum with 
a 50% spouses  pension.
Mr A was paying a 0.5% annual charge on his Provider 1 pension plan and a 0.4%  annual  
charge on his pension plan with Provider  2. Booth  did not tell him what  the annual charge 
was on his Provider 3 pension  plan.  Booth recommended Mr A move the money from all his 
defined contribution pensions into a SIPP with Succession Wealth.
Mr A was provided with illustrations for his SIPP and the illustrations showed  the charges 
associated with the SIPP would be as follows:
£100 annual  administration fee
£50 per transfer into the SIPP
0.35%  annual wrap  charge
additional fund manager charges
2% initial  adviser charge
Ref: DRN257326321% ongoing  adviser charge
Mr A signed  the transfer application  forms in September 2017, and all three of his defined 
contribution pensions was transferred into the Succession Wealth  SIPP between 
29 November 2017 and 3 January 2018.  In total £44,831.03 was transferred into the SIPP,  
excluding charges. His defined benefit pension plan wasnt transferred. 
In January 2018, Booth wrote to Mr A to tell him the business had been sold to Succession 
Group. Shortly after that, Mr A was sent a suitability report by Booth. The report  was wrongly 
dated 8 January 2017. Booth accepts the report wasnt sent until January 2018. 
In the suitability report, Booth said the benefits  of transferring to a SIPP for Mr A were:
consolidating his pensions to make ongoing management and administration easier;
investment in fund strategies in line with his agreed risk profile, and regular 
monitoring to manage performance;
flexible access to benefits at retirement; and
full pension funds  being passed on to chosen  beneficiaries on death.
Mr A later complained to Booth about  the suitability of the advice he received and that he 
had received the report after the transfers had gone  ahead. Booth took the view that the 
advice was suitable. However,  it accepted  that the suitability report had been sent late due to 
staffing issues. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr and Mrs A together  £500, in total, in 
compensation for this. 
It concluded however,  that the content  of the suitability  report wouldnt have changed Mr As 
decision to proceed  because the adviser  had been  through all the figures with him and he 
was fully informed  before the discharge  papers  were  signed. Mr A didnt accept Booths offer 
of settlement  and referred his complaint to this service.   
Our adjudicator looked into Mr As complaint and concluded that the advice Mr A had been 
given by Booth to transfer his funds  into a SIPP with Succession  Wealth  was unsuitable,  in 
Mr As circumstances. He recommended that Mr As complaint was upheld. 
Our adjudicator reached this conclusion on the basis that:
transferring to the SIPP  was more expensive. Whilst Mr As main objective appeared 
to be he wanted  all his pension plans in one place, he didnt need to have a SIPP  to 
achieve this. He shouldve been  advised to either consolidate his pensions  into one 
of his existing  low cost pension plans or into a simple personal pension;  
Mr A was a cautious investor,  this coupled with his modest transfer  value meant that 
once initial and ongoing charges had been  taken  from the SIPP,  it was unlikely that 
his SIPP  funds would outperform his existing low cost defined contribution pension 
plans.
although a SIPP could offer flexible drawdown  arrangements, Mr A was 45 years old. 
As such,  he would  be incurring  additional  costs within  the SIPP, when he couldnt 
access his benefits for at least  ten years.
Booth didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  It said,  in summary:
as Mr As investment  experience grew,  his attitude to risk would change; 
Ref: DRN25732633the advice  provided  by Booth  should  be viewed as joint advice for Mr and Mrs A, as it 
was provided at the same time; and 
the redress set out by the adjudicator was unfair. If the aim was to put the consumer 
back into the position they would  have been had the error  not occurred, then the loss 
calculation should be assessed against  his previous investments. 
Our adjudicator responded and said, in summary,  he couldnt  see that it necessarily followed 
that as Mr As investment experience on the platform grew,  his attitude to risk would 
necessarily change away from him being  a cautious investor. He said that although Mr and 
Mrs A received advice  from Booth at the same time, their pensions were  separate  and as 
such, each of their situations shouldve been  assessed on its own merits. His view was that 
Mr A wouldve  invested  differently had he been given suitable advice, so the recommended 
benchmark was an appropriate measure to assess his financial loss.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr As complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for much the same reasons. I am therefore 
upholding Mr As complaint.
To decide this complaint I must first look at whether  the advice  Mr A was given to transfer 
into the SIPP was suitable, in his circumstances. Secondly, I will go on to look at whether 
Mr A was given enough fair and clear information  to enable him to make an informed 
choice about whether  he wanted to transfer. If I find that, either the advice was unsuitable, 
or he should have  been  given better information, I must then go on to consider if Mr A has 
lost out as a result. 
Booth didnt issue Mr As suitability report until some months  after it asked Mr A to 
complete the discharge paperwork to enable the transfers to go ahead. By the time Mr A 
received the suitability report, all three  transfers had gone ahead  and the cooling off period 
had expired for two of these transfers,  during which Mr A couldve changed his mind and 
cancelled the transfer.
Booth concluded that had Mr A received the suitability report sooner, it wouldnt have 
changed his decision  to proceed. It reached this conclusion based on the fact that Mr A 
had been given information  upon  which to make an informed choice before the transfer 
paperwork was signed.
suitability
As pointed  out by our adjudicator, in 2008,  the regulator issued a report  entitled quality of 
advice on pension switching. The report provided examples of poor, compliant and good, 
examples of advice.  The adjudicator highlighted  some  examples from that report  of what  
may constitute unsuitable advice. These  are where:
 A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a 
stakeholder pension would have fulfilled  the customers needs.
 A pension  incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason  for the switch was for investment 
Ref: DRN25732634flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
the flexibility of a drawdown option,  but there is no evidence  this option was 
needed).
In summary,  Booth said in the suitability report, there were four main  benefits to its 
recommendation to transfer. Firstly, to provide Mr A with investment flexibility. Secondly, to 
enable him to bring all his pensions together. Thirdly, to provide more flexible drawdown 
options. Finally, for death benefit  purposes.  Ill look at each of these in turn. 
investment options
I cant see that Mr A was looking to invest in such a way that he needed  the investment 
flexibility a SIPP afforded. Theres no suggestion,  for example, that he wanted to invest in 
commercial property. Nor can I see that he wanted to invest  in more  specialised or high-
risk investments. Given his cautious attitude  to risk, high-risk investments like these, likely 
wouldnt have been considered suitable in any event. I think  it likely the investment options  
offered within  his existing  schemes or a personal  pension couldve met Mr As investment 
needs.
bringing his pensions together
Mr As main objective seemed to be to bring  his pensions together.  But, like our 
adjudicator, I think this couldve been achievable  using a lower cost option. I cant see that 
the adviser explored any other options other  than moving to the Succession Wealth  SIPP. 
Where there was such a difference  in charges, including ongoing  advice charges as there  
was here,  I think it wouldve been  reasonable for Booths adviser  to provide Mr A with a 
clear comparison  regarding the charges prior to the transfer of his pensions. I have not 
seen that it did so here. 
Also, given the relatively modest  size of Mr As total fund (less than £45,000),  and his 
attitude to risk, the growth  needed  in the SIPP to accommodate these additional fees and 
outperform his existing  plans may not have been  that achievable.
I also note that at the time of advice,  the adviser was in the process  of selling her business 
to Succession Group. Mr A said he wasnt made  aware of this until after he received the 
letter about  the sale in January 2018. Booth said the business sale had been ongoing for 
around two years and had no bearing  on the advice provided at the time. However, given 
that the adviser was providing independent  financial advice, I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect  the adviser  to assess the full range of options, and identify those that 
best suited Mr As particular needs  and circumstances. 
flexible drawdown
Mr A was 45 years old and some way off retirement. The fact find notes  noted  that he 
intended to retire at 70. Based on what Ive seen, and whats  recorded  in the advisers  
notes, I cant see that there  was any obvious  need  at that stage of Mr As retirement 
planning for him to move into a SIPP,  to provide him with drawdown  flexibility much further 
ahead in time, which he may or may not need  in due course.
Ref: DRN25732635death benefits
In relation to death benefits,  the fact find notes recorded N/A (which I have taken to mean 
not applicable in the section about  Family  and Financial Dependants. The no box was 
selected regarding  receiving advice on IHT liability. So, I cant  see anything to suggest that 
this was a particularly important consideration for them.
So, like our adjudicator, I cant see that the advice Mr A was given to transfer  his pensions 
into the Succession SIPP  was suitable  in his circumstances. While higher charges do not 
necessarily mean the advice was unsuitable, Mr As needs,  in my view likely couldve been 
met consolidating his pensions into one of his existing plans  or in a lower cost personal  
pension. I cant see that the adviser  explored these  other options.
clear and fair advice
The adviser didnt  send Mr A the suitability report until after he was asked to sign the 
discharge forms. All three  transfers had been made by the time Mr A received the report.  
Two of the transfers were  outside of the cooling  off period, during which Mr A couldve 
cancelled the transfer. The Provider 3 transfer  couldve  still been  cancelled. 
Booth accepted in its response  that the report was sent unacceptably  late. It put this down 
to staffing issues arising from the business  sale.
Its not clear to me from the paperwork provided,  which includes notes of the meetings 
between Mr and Mrs A and the adviser, that Booth clearly explained in advance  of the 
suitability report and before it asked Mr A to sign the discharge forms, why it was 
recommending that Mr A switch his pensions to the SIPP. Its also not clear  to me that the 
increase and impact  of the charges were clearly  explained.
I am therefore of the view that Mr A was not provided with sufficient information to make  an 
informed choice about transferring his pensions into the SIPP.
I can see that in her 12 January 2018,  response  to Mr and Mrs As concerns about  the 
transfers and concerns  about the independence  of the advice received, the adviser  
mentioned them having received a cancellation  notice  on all their schemes.  She said she 
believed the funds had been received  and were about to be invested. She said she would 
have to check exactly where in the process things  were .She said if they decided they did 
not wish to use Succession to let her know. However, by this stage, I understand it 
wouldve only have been possible to cancel the Provider  3 transfer. And I cant see that the 
adviser did come back to them on this. So, I cant see that Mr A was clearly  told he could 
still cancel the Provider  3 transfer.
has Mr A lost out because  of the unsuitable  advice and lack of clear  and fair information?
Having concluded  that Mr A received  unsuitable advice and was not given enough clear 
and fair information  to make an informed decision,  I must go on to consider whether he has 
lost out financially.
I think Mr A wouldve  acted differently  if sent the suitability report sooner or given clearer  
information. In reaching this conclusion, I have looked at the communications  exchanged 
between Mr and Mrs A and the adviser. I can see that Mr and Mrs A both wrote to the 
adviser about one anothers pensions and finances.  
Ref: DRN25732636In October  2017, Mrs A sent the adviser  an email  seeking to clarify the costs involved in 
transferring. Within a week  of receiving the suitability report, I can see that she emailed the 
adviser and asked her to clarify that nothing had been actioned yet. She queried the 
amount of the charges.  She asked for clarification as to why the adviser  was 
recommending transfer when  the charges were considerably more than in the existing 
plans. She said, on their reading of the report, they were anxious that the recommendation 
would create  significant  losses  on all their pensions. Mrs A flagged up her concerns about 
having all their pensions  with one provider because her parents had lost all their pensions 
due to being invested with just one provider.
I can see that Mr A wrote to the adviser  within days of receiving the report asking to meet 
with adviser as soon  as possible, expressing their concerns about the independence of the 
advice they had received, having been informed that Booth had been purchased by 
Succession Group.
Had Mr A received the report  prior to the transfer  having been made,  I think it unlikely  that 
he wouldve  gone ahead with transferring his three  defined  contribution plans into the SIPP.  
Given their concerns about  the impact  of the charges, the independence of the SIPP 
platform and the basis of the recommendation to transfer  I think it unlikely that Mr A 
wouldve accepted  the advisers advice to transfer into the SIPP.
I think  Mr A has also been caused  some  trouble and upset to his retirement planning arising 
from Booths actions  and omissions. So, Booth should pay him some compensation to 
acknowledge this, on top of any financial loss that he has suffered.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr A as close  as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
advice.
Ive considered whether Mr A couldve mitigated his own loss by cancelling the Provider 
3 transfer. However,  by then two of his transfers had gone ahead and werent capable 
of being cancelled. So he already was committed to paying at least some of the fees 
arising from the new SIPP arrangement. Additionally, as his main  objective was to bring 
his pensions together, if he had ended up leaving his Provider 3 plan with the original 
provider, his main objective wouldnt have been achieved  and he would still have had to 
pay higher charges. Also, I cant see that the adviser  came  back to Mr A as she said 
she would, to clarify cancellation arrangements. So, I dont hold it against Mr A that he 
didnt cancel this transfer.
Booth says that when assessing  fair compensation, Mr As loss should be assessed  
based on the performance  of Mr As existing pension arrangements at the time of 
advice. 
However, its clear from the paperwork that Mr A asked Booth to provide him with 
financial advice on his pensions  and other  savings.  So, I think  he wanted  to make some  
changes. If he had been given suitable  advice, I think he wouldve done  something 
different to meet his objective of bringing his pensions together.  
So, I think Mr A would have invested  differently. It is not possible  to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr As circumstances  and objectives when  he invested.
Ref: DRN25732637what should Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd?
To compensate Mr A fairly Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd should:
 Compare  the performance of Mr As investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Booth Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd should also pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, Booth  Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd should pay into Mr As 
pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation  and any 
interest. Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltds payment  should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Booth Wealth  Management  (UK) Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If Booth Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into       
Mr As pension  plan, Booth Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr As actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement age. In Mr As case,  he should be 
treated a basic  rate taxpayer.
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
 In addition, Booth Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd should pay Mr A £100  for the trouble 
and upset  caused.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Booth  Wealth Management (UK) Ltd 
consider that Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income  tax from that interest, Booth Wealth 
Management (UK) Ltd should tell Mr A how much  Booth Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd 
have taken off. Booth  Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd should  also give Mr A a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN25732638investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr A wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return  index) is made  up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close  enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr As circumstances  and risk attitude.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our 
website under Publications  / Online Technical Resource / Investment / Calculating  
compensation in investment complaints.
Ref: DRN25732639my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint  against Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd. I order  it to pay 
Mr A fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2573263