K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) following  
the purchase of a used car. He complains that HSBC ought to have recovered the money  he 
sent by way of Faster  Payment to the seller, and they ought to have checked the account 
he wanted to send the money to before it was sent
background
This complaint is linked to a complaint Mr W has made against  TSB in respect of the same 
transaction. Mr W bought  a car from a business  I will call UC. UC asked him to pay £4,150 
for the car by faster payment, which he did, sending some of the money from his TSB 
account, and the rest from his HSBC account. Mr W said he went  into an HSBC branch and 
gave the bank clerk UCs sort code, account number and full name, asking HSBC if they 
could check the account name matched the account details. When  HSBC said they couldnt 
do that Mr W made the payment in any event.
Mr W got the car the same day he made the payment but found it was faulty. He tried getting  
his money back from UC through the Court  process but it appears he was not successful. 
Mr W feels that HSBC  ought to have checked  the name on the account  he was sending  the 
money to, as he had requested. But HSBC said it wasnt their process  to do that. 
Mr W disagreed  and believed he had been the victim of a scam, and held HSBC partially 
responsible because they had not carried out the checks he wanted.
HSBC didnt accept  that they had done anything  wrong relying on their terms and conditions  
which stated that it was up to Mr W to check the details of whom  he was making  the faster 
payment to. 
Mr W was unhappy with HSBCs response and so an investigator from this service looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. As Mr W didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr W. My aim is to ensure  that a fair and reasonable outcome has been  achieved, which 
means taking into account both TSBs view and that of Mr W. My decisions are based on the 
evidence supplied to me. Where  such evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory,  
I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  
what is more likely  to have happened  in the light of that evidence  and the wider  
circumstances of the case.  Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate 
situation here, and I am sorry to hear this matter has affected  Mr Ws mental well being.
Mr W entered into an agreement with UC for the sale and purchase of a used car. As UC 
handed the car over to Mr W, and there is no evidence that it is a stolen car, it seems  logical 
that UC only did so when they received the money  Mr W sent to them.  So it would seem the 
bank details Mr W provided  to HSBC were correct.  
Ref: DRN24879612His complaint however  is subtly  different  to the claim he brought in Court. In bringing this 
complaint, he feels HSBC should have  helped him more  by checking the name of the 
business he was sending the money to. Our investigator has previously referred to the terms 
and conditions which govern Mr Ws account  pointing out the relevant section says,  
Its up to you to check the details are correct before asking  us to make  a payment as well 
make it using only these details." 
So I dont  think HSBC  have acted unfairly here, since the details Mr W gave HSBC seem to 
be correct since UC handed over the car. And it was Mr Ws responsibility to check out the 
authenticity of UC if he had doubts,  not HSBCs. Further, HSBC  specifically told Mr W that 
they couldnt carry out the checks he wanted them to make,  and despite that he went ahead  
with the purchase  by sending UC the money.
I know Mr W thinks this is a case of fraud, but I dont  agree. It is a simple case  of breach of 
contract - potentially, which it appears  Mr W has already  pursued.  Given  that it is not a fraud, 
then the only mechanism for recovery by HSBC of the monies  paid would be by chargeback 
or section  75 claim, neither of which  apply in these circumstances because Mr W didnt pay 
for the car with his debit  or credit card.
So, I cant say that HSBC have acted unfairly here and so Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2487961