K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains about the way National House-Building Council has dealt with a claim under 
a building  guarantee policy.
background
There is a protracted  and detailed background which the parties  are aware  of. Theyve  been  
in dispute for some  time now, had a matter looked  at by a resolution service (recent  report  
November 2018) under the policy and indeed a previous complaint to us. 
The focus and crux of this complaint primarily concerns the mortar used in the construction 
of Ms Ds home.  NHBC had accepted  there was a defect in the mortar used on the external 
brickwork and repointing  work was carried  out under a resolution service  report.  Subsequent  
reporting identified  the poor standard of the remedial work and poor quality of the mortar.  
Although NHBC has accepted the defect in the mortar, Ms D says this should go further to 
question the structural  condition of her property.
NHBC had instructed an expert, Ill call H and Ms D instructed a person  Ill call T. T said 
there was insufficient  evidence  to show the structure hadnt been  affected by the defective 
mortar. On the back of this our investigator initially thought NHBC should nominate  and then 
instruct experts to inspect the mortar,  the structural integrity of the property and then carry 
out any recommendations made.  
NHBC sent further information  and comments,  and this led the investigator to change  his 
opinion. He explained that it was reasonable for NHBC to rely on Hs report  given his 
expertise in mortar,  which in his view was more persuasive than Ts. The investigator  said 
the resolution service  report from November  2018 questioned the durability of the mortar but 
not the strength. There were no structural defects raised in the report (or previous ones).  He 
said that it was fair for NHBC to rely on the recommendations  of H and left it open  for H to 
consider the report  from T.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators view,  and in summary said;
T is an independent expert in mortar  and its inappropriately biased to favour  H, 
whos always employed by NHBC.
Crumbling mortar is a sign the mortar isnt strong  enough and this was confirmed in 
Hs report as not meeting  building  regulations.
Building regulations  say the safety  of a structure is dependent on several things, 
particularly the properties of material
Repointing the outer 25mm of mortar will not correct the presence of mortar  
throughout the structure
The extent the mortar  defect will have on structural integrity is yet to be determined 
and a structural engineer should  review the case.
T has said the only way to resolve  the matter  is either for NHBC  to buy the property 
back or proving  the house is structurally sound  such than can eliminate any concerns 
with insurers or mortgage company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22504392The crux of this complaint concerns the mortar between the brickwork at Ms Ds home. It 
was noted to be described  as pointing to external wall of entire building  in a resolution  
service report  in September  2015. The brickwork was repointed but this found to be 
unsatisfactory and further inspections took place. As things stand further repointing  work  has 
been recommended, which is detailed in a resolution report in November 2018. So, theres 
no dispute that the mortar is defective,  the dispute  centres on Ms Ds belief that her property 
may be structurally compromised.  As such, Ms D wants  NHBC to prove the property is 
structurally sound.
In making a claim under a policy it is for Ms D to show there is a defect. Indeed, that is what  
happened with the pointing to the external wall of Ms Ds entire building. She had apparently 
reported dusty appearance of some  of the external  brickwork, NHBC investigated this and 
recommended a course of action because of defects in the mortar. I appreciate  that this 
remains unresolved  some four or more years later and NHBC has paid compensation to Ms 
D.
Where things apparently  stand now are reflected in the resolution report of 21 November 
2018, which sets out what needs  to be done and to what  specification. I dont know  if this 
work has been carried out. If it hasnt been  done,  then its for Ms D to make the necessary 
arrangements with NHBC. 
Ts report  notes the mortar sampled at several  locations on the house has too little cement  
and as a corollary  the mortar is weak. And repointing in line with the resolution report of 
November may therefore not be sufficient for the 60 year design life to be expected  for this 
house. Ts report also concludes that the structural integrity of the house is questionable.
I appreciate Ms D has concerns over the structural integrity of her home because of the 
defective mortar, but Im not persuaded theres  enough evidence  to show the structural 
integrity of the house as a whole  is compromised  because of a defect. Indeed, in the 2015 
resolution report it states The test results have indicated that the mortar strength  is sufficient  
to maintain the structural integrity of the property And a review  by a company Ill call F 
concluded the mortar was adequate to support the applied vertical and horizontal loadings.
There is a difference  between what  is a possibility and whats  a probability.  Ms D objectively 
demonstrated the mortar used on the external brickwork was, in effect, crumbling  and so 
shell also need to show the structural integrity is, on the balance  of probabilities, 
compromised. For something  like this Id expect to see a report  from a suitably qualified  
structural engineer  who has inspected the property  and sampled mortar from areas such  as 
the foundations and wall ties. If the mortar used in these areas is not in compliance with 
NHBC technical requirements, then it may well indicate there is a defect. 
Under section 2 of the policy, which is the basis upon which  this matter has been  dealt with, 
there may well be a requirement for NHBC to repair any defects identified by such an 
expert. However, until this evidence  is forthcoming, Im not persuaded  NHBC should  be 
required by me to do anything more than identified in the resolution report dated  21 
November 2018.
Im also aware there are other  potential  issues regarding Ms Ds property that NHBC is 
aware of and has inspected. While  not part of this complaint  for me to look at Id remind  
NHBC of its duty under  ICOBS to handle claims  promptly and fairly.
Ref: DRN22504393my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against National House-Building Council. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2250439