K821x#15complaint
Ms S acquired a used car in March 2017,  by means  of a 60 months Conditional  Sale 
Agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc. Her agreement account fell into arrears  in spring 
2018, and Vauxhall Finance subsequently  issued a default notice.
Ms S complains  that Vauxhall Finance did not respond appropriately to her personal 
circumstances and difficulties, in its dealings with her. She also complains  specifically that it 
did not register the default notice  correctly, and she wants it to withdraw this notice.
 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my first 
provisional decision dated 4 November 2020  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my first provisional  decision,  I explained that I disagreed with our 
investigators view that the complaint should only be upheld  in part. 
Vauxhall Finance  accepted my first provisional decisions findings, but it proposed  a change 
to my provisional settlement recommendations. It felt that there  would be little benefit from 
an independent inspection of Ms Ss car. Instead,  it offered  to value her car based on the 
mileage recorded  when her car was MOT tested in November 2018, and it provided details 
of the methodology to be used. This gave a figure of a little under £6,000.  
Ms S also disagreed with my provisional  settlement recommendations.  She felt the proposed 
payment of £600  by Vauxhall  Finance, in compensation for its lack of regard for her health 
conditions and circumstances, completely  failed  to recognise the impact of what had gone 
wrong. She similarly  felt that the pain and loss of amenity, which she had suffered, had not 
been recognised.  
Ms S felt as well that she should  be compensated for financial loss. She confirmed to us that 
she had worked (and was still working) for the same employer since  June 2018,  and she 
provided detailed  information to us about her monthly income over this period. (She  had 
already provided  evidence that her full-time professional appointment had been  terminated 
in August 2019, and that it had been  replaced  with part-time employment  in a non-
professional capacity.)
I reconsidered the available evidence and arguments, and specifically looked  at the 
responses received  to my first provisional  decisions settlement recommendations. My 
revised settlement  recommendations were  set out in my second  provisional decision, dated 
25 June 2021,  and were as follows.
Ref: DRN20987412valuation of Ms Ss car at the agreement termination  date
I had initially recommended that this valuation should be established through an 
independent assessment. But I thought that Vauxhall Finances methodology for estimating 
the value in November 2018 was fair to Ms S. This values Ms Ss car at £5,925.
compensation for financial loss (from September 2019)
Given the further information  provided  by Ms S, I thought  that it was fair and reasonable for 
her to be compensated for loss of earnings.  These losses  were because she could no longer 
be employed in a professional capacity, which in turn was because of adverse information 
recorded on her credit  file by Vauxhall  Finance. But she continued  to be employed in a 
lower-paid non-professional capacity. 
(One of my accepted  settlement recommendations was that Vauxhall Finance should 
remove all its references on Ms Ss credit file.) 
Between September 2018 and August 2019,  Ms Ss gross annual salary was £20,000, and 
her net monthly  salary was £1,375.  
Between September 2019 and January 2021,  Ms Ss gross  annual salary was £7,462.  From 
September 2019 to March 2020  (6 months),  her net monthly salary  was £702. From April 
2020 to January 2021 (10 months), her net monthly salary averaged £590.    
In February 2021,  Ms Ss gross annual salary was £10,660, and her net monthly salary  was 
£862.
So, her net monthly  salary  reduced as follows:
£1,375  £702 = £673  x 6 months = £4,038
£1,375  £590 = £783  x 10 months = £7,830
£1,375  £862 = £513  x 1 month  = £513
TOTAL (September 2019  to February 2021) = £12,381
I thought that Vauxhall Finance should compensate Ms S for each month,  starting 
September 2019, in which she has lost earnings  plus interest at 8% simple per annum, 
from each month in which earnings  were lost to the month of settlement.
 
compensation for non-financial loss
The Financial Ombudsman  Service makes awards for trouble  and upset. Our investigator  
recommended that an award of £600 should  be made to Ms S, in particular because  of the 
Vauxhall Finances  lack of regard for her health  conditions and circumstances.  
An example  of where a similar award  would be appropriate is where mistakes made by a 
business led to a County Court  Judgement  being  made against  somebody,  which meant  that 
that their mortgage application was rejected. This caused considerable embarrassment, 
upset and inconvenience to that person.   
I continued to feel that an award  of £600 in this instance was appropriate,  given the 
circumstances of Ms Ss complaint, and was consistent with our approach  to awarding 
compensation.
Ref: DRN20987413other parts of my first provisional decisions settlement recommendations
In the absence of compelling evidence or arguments to the contrary, I continued to feel that 
the other parts of my settlement  recommendations were  appropriate.  My revised 
recommendations in full were as follows.
Vauxhall Finance  should retrospectively terminate Ms Ss Conditional Sale Agreement, as at 
the date of her complaint to it in November 2018.  It should recover  her car, at no cost to her. 
It should also remove all references  on Ms Ss credit file, relating to her agreement
Ms S travelled a little under 18,000 miles in the 20 months between the point of supply and 
November 2018,  from which  she should  have derived  reasonable benefit.  And so, in 
terminating her agreement, I thought  it was fair and reasonable for Vauxhall  Finance to 
recover from Ms S all the required monthly repayments up to November 2018  but not any 
fees or other  charges,  or any post-November  2018 monthly repayments or other payments.  
In normal circumstances  when Ms Ss agreement ended, either  Vauxhall  Finance would 
have recovered  her car and credited its value to her agreement  account, or Vauxhall 
Finance would have received a payment (which would  also have been credited to her 
account) for allowing  Ms S to retain  her car. But Ms S retained  her car without making a 
payment.
Ms S remained liable, though, under her agreement to make this payment   and I thought  
that it was fair and reasonable for Vauxhall  Finance to recover  the payment (because  of the 
benefit she derived  from using  her car). The size of this payment was her cars  estimated 
value in November  2018 (a little under £6,000).
But I provisionally concluded that Vauxhall  Finance should not have approved  Ms Ss 
lending application  in March 2017. So, I thought that it should refund her deposit, plus 
interest at 8% per annum  simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement. This 
payment could be credited to Ms Ss agreement account, if Vauxhall Finance wished to do 
so. Settlement of this account, when the agreement is terminated, would then be a matter to 
be resolved between Ms S and Vauxhall Finance.   
Separately, Vauxhall  Finance should reimburse Ms S for loss of earnings totalling a little 
under £12,400, as described above,  plus interest at 8% simple per annum from each month 
in which  earnings  were lost to the month of settlement. These payments should be made  
directly to Ms S.
And finally, Vauxhall Finance should pay compensation  of £600 for trouble and upset, 
directly to Ms S.  
my second  provisional  decision
.
Ms S responded to my second provisional  decision, asking questions about my settlement 
recommendations. She also included payslips for April, May and June 2021, which she 
asked to be included  in her loss of earning calculations. I think that this is a fair and 
reasonable request, for the same reasons as set out previously for awarding compensation 
covering the period September 2019  to February  2021.
Ref: DRN20987414Our investigator responded to Ms Ss questions.  The calculation of her loss of earning was 
updated to include  the extra months, and our investigator sent this information to Vauxhall  
Finance for its comments. It did not respond  either to my second  provisional decision, or to 
the updated loss of earnings information.
In April, May and June  2021, Ms Ss gross annual  salary was £10,660 (as in February  2021),  
and her net monthly salary was £862.  On that basis, my revised calculation is:
£1,375  £702 = £673  x 6 months = £4,038
£1,375  £590 = £783  x 10 months = £7,830
£1,375  £862 = £513  x 1 month  = £513
SUB-TOTAL  (September 2019 to February 2021) = £12,381
£1,375  £862 = £513  x 3 months = £1,539
TOTAL (including April to June 2021) = £13,920
This means  that Ms Ss loss of earnings  compensation  has increased from £12,381 by 
£1,539 to £13,920.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Vauxhall Finance  has failed to provide suitable  arguments why Ms S should not receive 
compensation for loss of earnings (as recommended in my second provisional  decision), or 
why this compensation should not increase  from £12,381 (as set out in my revised 
settlement recommendations) by £1,539.  So, I find that Ms S should receive £13,920.   
And, in the absence  of evidence or arguments  to the contrary,  I see no reason to change the 
other settlement recommendations contained  in my second provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Vauxhall  Finance  plc:
1.To terminate retrospectively  its Conditional  Sale Agreement  with Ms S, as at the date 
of her complaint  to it
2.To collect  Ms Ss car at no cost to her
3.To remove  all references on Ms Ss credit file, relating  to her agreement  account  
4.To be entitled to receive all the monthly  repayments required under its agreement 
with Ms S, up to the termination date  but not any fees or other charges, or any 
subsequent monthly repayments or other payments
5.To be entitled also to receive from Ms S, payment of her cars value at the agreement  
termination date (£5,925)
6.To refund Ms Ss deposit, plus interest  at 8% per annum simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
7.To reimburse Ms S for loss of earnings (£13,920) as described above, plus interest at 
8% simple per annum from each month in which earnings were lost to the month  of 
settlement  these  payments to be made directly to Ms S.
8.To pay compensation of £600  for trouble and upset, directly  to Ms S .
Ref: DRN20987415If Vauxhall Finance  considers it has to deduct  tax from the interest  element of my award,  it 
should send Ms S a tax deduction certificate  when it pays her. She can then use that 
certificate to try to reclaim the tax, if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2021.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20987416COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
4 November 2020
background 
Vauxhall Finance told us that it auto approved Ms Ss Conditional Sale application  in March 2017. It 
said there were no affordability concerns,  based on the following points:
Ms S had a high credit score, and a clean credit file
She showed commitment by providing a substantial deposit
She had been in steady employment for over six years, and the monthly repayments required 
under her agreement were  affordable,  based on her salary
She was living with a parent, and so her outgoings  would usually  be lowered
Ms S told us that:
She was employed as a manager  from 2006  until October  2015
She successfully studied  for a professional qualification from October  2015 to June 2016 (she 
lived off accumulated savings during this period) 
She was married for 17 years, but divorced (with  a settlement) in October 2016 
She lived with a parent from October 2016 to summer  2017, and then moved  into rented  
accommodation (living off her divorce  settlement, and subsequently  claiming state benefits)
She was admitted to hospital suffering  with severe mental health issues (which  had 
sometimes left her feeling suicidal)  in November  2016, July 2017 and August 2017
She made all the regular  monthly repayments between April 2017 and February  2018 
(inclusive), but her finances had dwindled by early 2018 (she made  no further payments until 
July 2018)
Information we have received from Vauxhall Finance indicates:
Ms S contacted it in February 2018  she informed it about her personal circumstances 
(mental health issues,  which she disclosed, and financial  difficulties), and that she would 
sending it supporting evidence about changes in her circumstances
oIt put Ms Ss account on hold, awaiting this information  
Ms S contacted it in March 2018   she told it that she was unable to make her March 
repayment, and it actioned a loan extension
oIt had not received the supporting evidence promised  in February 2018
It wrote to Ms S in April 2018, seeking her consent  to obtain information about her medical 
problems
Ms S contacted it in May 2018  she explained that she was no longer working  because of 
her mental health  issues, and told it that she was unable  to make a full payment
oIt had still not received the supporting  evidence  promised in February 2018 
It wrote to Ms S in May 2018, again seeking her consent to obtain information about her 
health conditions
It sent to Ms S a Notice of Sums in Arrears later in May 2018,  and a Default Notice in June 
2018
Ms S contacted it later in June 2018  she unsuccessfully attempted to make a payment, and 
questioned why the Default Notice had been issued  while  her account  was only two months in 
arrears 
oIt had still not received the supporting  evidence  promised in February 2018
Ms S contacted it in July 2018,  and made a reduced payment  it told her that she would be 
helped to make small over-payments to help in resolving her arrears, once her circumstances  
had been resolved
Ms S contacted it In August 2018 and made another reduced payment  she told it that she 
had returned to full-time employment and wanted to keep her car
It told her that it would expect full monthly repayments  to be made  for the next three months,  
with overpayments from December  2018
Ms S contact it in October 2018 and asked it to remove  the Default Notice  it was unable to 
do so at that time, given the account history
Ref: DRN20987417It suggested  to Ms S that her best interests might be served  by handing back  the car, 
because she was struggling financially  but she said that her personal circumstances  meant 
that she needed to keep the car
Ms S contacted it in November  2018  she proposed a revised repayment plan that it felt 
unable to accommodate, because of the length of time (more  than two years)  over which the 
arrears would be resolved
Ms S told it that, in her view, she was not being treated fairly  as a vulnerable customer  
Ms S formally complained to Vauxhall Finance. It responded  in December 2018, saying that it did not 
uphold her complaint, which she then referred to us.
our investigators  conclusions and recommendations
Our investigator considered the complaint  in two parts:  Ms Ss Default Notice,  and Vauxhall  
Finances response  to Ms Ss personal circumstances and difficulties. He thought the complaint 
should be upheld  in part. 
Regarding Ms Ss Default  Notice, our investigator cited guidance from the Information  
Commissioners Office:
This indicated that, as a general guide, defaults may be recorded when an account  is three 
months in arrears,  and normally by time it is six months  in arrears
The date of default recorded would normally be when the decision became  effective  28 
days from the date of the default notice
Considering this guidance and Vauxhall Finances  actions, he was unable  to conclude that 
Ms Ss Default Notice had been registered  incorrectly  and so he could not recommend 
removal
Regarding Ms Ss personal circumstances and difficulties, our investigator felt that she had provided 
significant evidence  of her health conditions:
A fully completed, signed and dated (May 2018)  Consent Form
A Debt and Mental  Health Evidence Form (dated June 2018)  
Our investigator also cited evidence, in notes (dated November 2018)  provided by Vauxhall Finance,  
indicating that Ms Ss health conditions and circumstances had not been taken  into consideration.  He 
felt that Vauxhall Finance had made an extremely difficult personal situation worse, by poor handling  
of Ms Ss medical information. 
Our investigator concluded that Vauxhall  Finance had shown a lack of regard for its customer. As a 
result, he recommended that it should pay compensation of £600 to Ms S.
Vauxhall Finance accepted  our investigators  recommendation  but Ms S did not, particularly 
because our investigator had not also recommended removal of her Default Notice.    
Ms S explained that the Default Notice was preventing her from practicing her chosen profession.  She 
said that her employer had been obliged to terminate her full-time professional appointment  in August 
2019, although it had offered her part-time employment in a non-professional capacity.  (She provided  
supporting evidence of this action.)
Ms S added that, in these circumstances,  her future  earning potential  was very seriously reduced.  
And the proposed  compensation of £600 was totally inadequate. 
So, this complaint  was referred for review by an ombudsman. 
In February 2020, Ms S notified us that her home at that time had been severely  damaged by Storm 
Dennis, as a result of which her car was written off. Ms S also notified Vauxhall  Finance:
It advised  her to speak with her car insurer  
Ref: DRN20987418It explained that it would not be collecting the car, because the car was a write off, and that 
she was still responsible  for the remaining finance
Ms S no longer  lives at that address, but the car is still off road there.
Vauxhall Finance had agreed  in March 2019 to put Ms Ss agreement on hold, while it was being  
considered by us. It has recently  confirmed  to us that the agreement is still on hold.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
affordable lending
I begin by considering whether Vauxhall Finance should have  approved Ms Ss Conditional  Sale 
application in March  2017. I think that Vauxhall Finance was probably unaware  of Ms Ss health 
conditions (which had caused a hospital admission in November 2016). And there was no reason  why 
it should  have been aware, at the start of its assessment  process.
So, my focus  is on the financial aspects  of Ms Ss application.  (This  was for credit of just under 
£4,900, on which interest and fees of just over £2,000 were charged,  with monthly  repayments over 
60 months of roundly £115.)  I need to consider whether  or not Vauxhall Finance  completed 
reasonable and proportionate  checks,  in order to satisfy  itself that Ms S would be able to make 
repayments in a sustainable  way.
Vauxhall Finance auto approved the application, but its assessment of Ms Ss finances appears to 
have been out of date.  This assessment may have  been  appropriate for a substantial period before 
October 2015, but it was not appropriate for the 17 months before her application was approved.  So, 
something went wrong with the approval process.
Vauxhall Finance should have become aware  that Ms S was not in employment  during those 
17 months. And, if it had become aware, it should have asked further questions  about:
Why Ms S was no longer in employment?
What she was doing  during that period?
The affordability of repayments by somebody not in employment?
Section 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) relates to 
Responsible Lending. CONC  5.2A.22  says a lender should have regard to information of which  it is 
aware at the time a creditworthiness  assessment  is carried out, indicating that the customer is likely to 
experience financial difficulties, or is particularly  vulnerable because of certain  health conditions. Ms S 
had such a health conditions  at that time.    
I find that:
The affordability checks  were  inadequate
If the affordability checks had been  adequate, Vauxhall Finance would have become  
sufficiently aware of Ms Ss financial  and mental health problems
In these circumstances, the agreement would  not have constituted  responsible lending
vulnerable customer  (February  to June 2018)
I consider next whether  Vauxhall Finance responded positively and sympathetically, as a responsible 
lender, when  Ms S told it in February 2018 about her personal circumstances  and difficulties?  Did it 
deal with her arrears in March 2018 onwards with forbearance and due consideration?
Ref: DRN20987419I think  it is perfectly reasonable for a lender  to require  evidence of health conditions, and there were 
some delays in getting that information from Ms S to Vauxhall Finance.  But, if customers  assert to a 
lender that they are vulnerable (which is what, in effect,  Ms S did in February  2018), then I think it is 
reasonable to expect  a responsible lender  to proceed cautiously when dealing  with arrears, while 
these assertions are either  being substantiated or being shown not to have substance.
In June 2018,  Vauxhall  Finance sent Ms S a Default Notice requiring payment of two months arrears 
within 16 days  (which  was before the next monthly payment was due). Guidance  on when a default  
should be recorded is only guidance. But I do not think that preparing  to register a default against a 
possibly vulnerable  customer, based on two months  arrears, constitutes proceeding  cautiously.  
I find that Vauxhall Finance  did not respond positively  and sympathetically  to Ms S, over the period 
February to June 2018. 
vulnerable customer  (November 2018)
I consider lastly whether Vauxhall Finance  responded positively and sympathetically, when Ms S tried 
to negotiate a revised repayment plan with Vauxhall Finance in November  2018.  She wanted to repay 
her arrears over a period  of more than two years. 
As noted earlier, our investigator concluded that Vauxhall Finance had shown a lack of regard for its 
customer. As a result,  he recommended that it should pay compensation  of £600 to Ms S. And 
Vauxhall Finance accepted  this recommendation.  
For the same reasons as our investigator, I find that Vauxhall Finance did not take account of Ms Ss 
status as a vulnerable  customer.  
my provisional  conclusion and recommendations  
I conclude that, on several occasions, Vauxhall Finance has not properly recognised that Ms S was a 
vulnerable customer.  I think that it should not have approved her lending application in March 2017. 
(She complained to it in November 2018.)
But Vauxhall  Finance did approve  the application. The used car Ms S acquired had travelled just over 
19,300 miles  at the point of supply.  At its MOT test in November 2018,  it had travelled a little under 
£37,300 miles. This means that the car had travelled a little under 18,000 miles  in 20 months, from 
which Ms S should  have derived reasonable  benefit.   
In these circumstances, my provisional settlement recommendations are:
Vauxhall Finance should retrospectively terminate Ms Ss agreement, as at the date of her 
complaint, and it should refund her deposit (plus interest) 
Reflecting the derived  benefit, Ms S should be responsible for all monthly  payments, up to 
that date (but not for any fees or charges,  or for subsequent monthly  payments) 
Vauxhall Finance should collect Ms Ss (written off) car, at no cost to her
Vauxhall Finance should pay for an independent assessment of the cars  value at the 
agreement termination date  and Ms S should  be responsible for paying the cars  value to 
Vauxhall Finance
Vauxhall Finance should pay compensation of £600 to Ms S (as previously  agreed)
The resulting balance outstanding in the agreement account should  then be paid by Ms S or 
Vauxhall Finance (as appropriate) to the other party
Vauxhall Finance should also remove all references  on Ms Ss credit file, relating to her agreement  
account, including the Default Notice.
Ref: DRN209874110my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Ms 
S or Vauxhall Finance plc by 4 December 2020, my provisional decision is that I uphold this 
complaint. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendations are:
Vauxhall Finance should retrospectively terminate Ms Ss agreement, as at the date of her 
complaint, and it should refund her deposit, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the 
dates of payment to the date of settlement
Ms S should be responsible  for all monthly payments,  up to the termination  date (but not for 
any fees or charges,  or for subsequent monthly payments) 
Vauxhall Finance should collect Ms Ss car, at no cost to her
Vauxhall Finance should pay for an independent assessment of the cars  value at the 
termination date  which  Ms S should be responsible for paying  to Vauxhall Finance
Vauxhall Finance should pay compensation of £600 to Ms S (as previously  agreed)
The resulting balance outstanding in the agreement account should  then be paid by Ms S or 
Vauxhall Finance (as appropriate) to the other party
Vauxhall Finance should remove all references on Ms Ss credit file, relating to her 
agreement account 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2098741