K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that International Insurance Company of Hannover S.E. is responsible  for 
mishandling his claim in connection with his home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service usually deals with a complaint about an insurance claim 
as a complaint  against the insurance company. We name that insurance company but we 
dont name  other companies.
So I will say that - although Mr I had a policy in the name of an insurance intermediary  the 
insurance company  responsible for dealing with claims was International Insurance  
Company of Hannover S.E. (the insurer). Where I refer to the insurer I include the 
intermediary, engineers  and others  for whose actions I hold the insurer  responsible.
Mr I called for help with his central heating boiler. After  a number of visits the insurer  said the 
boiler was beyond economic repair (BER).
Mr I complained that another company was able to fix his boiler  so the insurer shouldve  
done so.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He dealt  with the 
complaint as a complaint against the intermediary. He thought that it had acted  fairly  in its 
decision making.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr I 
and to the insurer on 1 October 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Mr I had sent us a quote and a receipt from a provider of gas, central  heating  repairs 
and insurance. Those documents  arent in Mr Is name. Like some  of the emails Id 
seen, they are in another name. Mr I hadnt  explained the use of the other name.
The documents show that the central  heating repair company quoted  and charged 
about £555.00 for replacing a flue collector and plate heat exchanger.  As it made a 
charge, I didnt think the cost of the repair was covered by a new policy  of insurance.
In any event, I found it likely that £555.00  was more than the value of Mr Is boiler. So 
I didnt think the documents  show the insurer had been  wrong  to say the boiler  was 
BER on 10 January 2018. I found it likely that it had been BER. So the insurer didnt 
have to repair it.
Overall I wasnt  minded to find that the insurer treated Mr I unfairly. So I wasnt  
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer to pay him any refund or 
compensation.
Ref: DRN27918302Subject to any further information from Mr I or from the insurer,  my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct International Insurance  
Company of Hannover S.E. to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Mr I hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
The insurer  hasnt responded to the provisional  decision.
So I see no reason  to change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurer  has said that Mr Is boiler was more than fifteen years old. He hasnt disagreed  
with that. So I find that his boiler was an old one with limited monetary value.
On 3 November  2017 Mr I took out a home emergency policy.  It covered emergencies 
relating to his central heating boiler,  electricity, gas, plumbing, windows, keys, roof and pest 
infestation.
The premium was about £91.25 for a year.  Mr I paid it in full  rather  than agreeing to pay by 
instalments.
The policy covered the total failure  of the main source  of heating.  So I dont think it covered 
an intermittent fault with the boiler not providing hot water.
In the event of a total failure of the main source  of heating, the policy provided that the 
insurer would do an emergency  repair.  That was defined  to mean a temporary repair  to 
resolve the immediate  emergency or  if it was no more expensive   a permanent repair.
The policy excluded the cost of, or contribution towards, replacing  the main  source  of 
heating if it was BER.  BER was defined as follows:
The point where the authorised repairer decides  the cost of repairing your main 
source of heating (including  labour  and parts) is more than its value. This will take 
into account its age, make and model.
Mr I hasnt provided a detailed timeline. So I accept  the timeline provided by the insurer.
On 10 November 2017 Mr I called for help and the insurer  visited.  It thought he might  need a 
new heat exchanger and pump.
On 15 November 2017 the insurer visited with those new parts.  But it was able to repair the 
boiler by cleaning the old heat exchanger  and pump.  Mr I had concerns that this was only a 
temporary repair. But Im satisfied that a temporary  repair was enough to fulfil the policy 
terms.
On 20 November 2017 the insurer visited again. But the insurer found the hot water was 
working.
Ref: DRN27918303There followed a period of about  six weeks without a call-out.
On 4 January  2018 the insurer  said the boiler  needed a new expansion vessel.
On 10 January 2018 the insurer said the boiler  was BER.
On 17 January 2018 the insurer got a second opinion that the boiler  was BER.
Mr I has sent us a quote and a receipt from a provider of gas, central heating repairs  and 
insurance. Those documents arent in Mr Is name.  Like some  of the emails Ive seen, they 
are in another name.  Mr I hasnt explained the use of the other name.
The documents show that the central  heating repair company quoted  and charged about  
£555.00 for replacing a flue collector and plate heat exchanger. As it made a charge, I dont 
think the cost of the repair was covered by a new policy  of insurance.
In any event, I find it likely that £555.00 was more  than the value of Mr Is boiler. So I dont 
think the documents show the insurer had been  wrong to say the boiler was BER on 10 
January 2018.  I find it likely that it had been BER.  So the insurer  didnt have to repair it.
Overall I dont find that the insurer treated  Mr I unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct the insurer to pay him any refund or compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct International Insurance Company  of Hannover  S.E. to do anything further in response 
to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2791830