K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold the late Mr M a regular 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr M applied  for a credit card by post in May 1998. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagrees  so the 
complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and I will explain  why.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mr M completed a postal application for a credit card. 
Capital One has given us a copy of the application form Mr M completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Directly 
under this it gives the option to select PPI and the option to not have it. I can see on the 
application form a tick has been placed next to the option to have it. So although I cant be 
sure what  happened, I think its more  likely  the PPI tick was made by Mr M. So I think  
because Mr M selected to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice  in taking the 
policy and wanted  the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Capital One advised  
Mr M to take PPI. What  this means  is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, it just 
gave him information  about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital  One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even  if 
Capital One did, I think Mr M wouldve still taken the policy  because  at the time of sale from 
what we know about Capital One policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr M wouldve been entitled to at least  6 months  sick pay but had 
no other  means of making his repayments if he couldnt  work  due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. The policy wouldve helped him in these  situations,  so I 
cant see how knowing this information  wouldve  put him off buying it.
Ref: DRN21061082Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M and he could  have 
cancelled the policy if he no longer  wanted  it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him at the time 
of sale.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital  One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr M about 
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have  to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI.
But Capital  One (Europe)  plc does  have to pay back any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2106108