K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr S between May 2015 
and November 2016. Mr Ss borrowing history  is as follows:
Initially an adjudicator  upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought  the loan 5 shouldnt  have been 
given in light of Mr Ss existing borrowing and the amount being borrowed. Uncle Buck  
responded arguing it carried  out sufficient checks and the loan was affordable  for Mr S. 
Whilst the case was waiting for a final decision by an ombudsman it was reviewed again by 
an adjudicator. This adjudicator thought that loans  3-5 shouldnt  have been given to Mr S. 
This was because Mr S had existing short term loans and would not be able to sustainably  
repay any further borrowing. Uncle Buck didnt agree, and said it carried out proportionate 
checks and Mr Ss lending history wasnt a concern. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case as passed me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:Loan Date  Taken Amount Term 
(Days)Date repaidHighest  
monthly 
repayment
108/05/2015 £100.00 21 28/05/2015 £116.80
220/07/2015 £100.00 70 28/07/2015 £43.53
322/03/2016 £100.00 98 28/04/2016 £52.73
407/06/2016 £100.00 80 28/06/2016 £47.43
522/11/2016 £600.00 70 30/11/2016 £260.71
Ref: DRN26842582the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. The most recent adjudicator to review 
the case explained that had Uncle Buck  carried  out proportionate checks  for loans 3 to 5 it 
would have shown  Mr S was not able to sustainably repay further borrowing. I agree with 
this and Ill explain why.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out checks on Mr S when he applied for loan 3. This included 
verifying his income  and expenditure  which it says showed he had adequate disposable 
income to afford the monthly repayments.  Uncle Buck says it also carried out credit checks  
which didnt reveal  anything of concern. However,  I think if Uncle Buck  had reacted 
effectively to the information  it had gathered it wouldve seen that his existing borrowing, 
along with his normal living costs would mean any additional borrowing may have caused  
Mr S issues  as he had so little left over each month. I think this information shouldve  
prompted Uncle Buck to carry  out some more  detailed  checks.  
I think if Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks it would have seen that Mr S had 
taken out a significant number of short-term loans, all taken out within  months of each other. 
Looking at the lending history, there is a significant break between Mr S repaying loan 2 and 
taking loan 3. However,  in that time it looks like Mr S started  two credit applications, one of 
which was declined. Overall, it seems Mr S had been borrowing and repaying significant 
amounts to these loans  and it looks like this was likely to continue going  forward.
Uncle Buck  says that a history of short-term loans doesnt automatically mean it is wrong  to 
lend again. In Mr Ss case the number of loans   around 63 at the time he applied for loan 3 
Ref: DRN26842583 means its reasonable to say that Mr S was having issues  managing his finances  and it 
seems likely he was relying on short term credit to cover ongoing shortfalls. Mr S had also 
borrowed short term loans of around £220  and repaid £681.  And by loan 4 Mr S had settled  
69 short  term loans so he had opened  more since loan 3. Hed also paid over £1,000 
towards short term loans  in the previous month. And by loan 5 Mr S had settled 74 short 
term loans. So taking  all of this into account I think if Uncle Buck had obtained a clearer 
picture of Mr Ss situation,  I think it wouldve been obvious Mr S was not in a position to take 
on loans 3 to 5 and repay  them in a sustainable manner.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 to 5 and Uncle Buck  should  put things right.
how to put things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
Mr S shouldnt have been  given  loans  3 to 5.
A.)Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans  (including payments made to a third 
party if the debts  were sold).
B.)Uncle Buck should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made 
by Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.)Uncle Buck should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D.)Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on his 
credit file in relation  to the upheld  loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should pay put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision 
before 1 March  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2684258