K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement  offer made by Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) on his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr B has a car insurance policy provided by Lloyds. He was involved in an incident and 
made a claim on the policy. The damage  was assessed and the car deemed to be a 
write-off. Lloyds offered  £17,500 as settlement of the claim. Mr B didnt accept  this offer.  
The offer was increased to £18,000. His excess was also waived and he was offered £150 in 
compensation because of poor advice hed been  given.
Mr B complained. He said his car was worth significantly  more than £18,000. Lloyds 
rejected the complaint. It said the £18,000 hed been offered was consistent with the market 
value of the car. And the amount was the same  as the maximum the policy  terms and 
conditions said it would  pay.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator reviewed his complaint. He didnt 
think Lloyds had done anything wrong.  He thought the amount offered  by Lloyds was 
consistent with the market  value of the car.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said the value of his car was higher than the amount  offered. He 
also thought Lloyds had calculated a lower market value because  if the car was a write  off it 
would be able to recover some of its payment to him from the salvage  value of the car. Hes 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Im satisfied that my decision  needs  to look at two specific points. Firstly,  whether the 
£18,000 offered  by Lloyds is a fair market value for Mr Bs car. And if the cars worth more 
than the amount offered,  whether its fair to allow Lloyds to limit the settlement to the 
amount stated on Mr Bs insurance schedule.
The market  value
Mr B says his car was worth significantly more than the amount  Lloyds  have offered. Hes 
provided an estimate from a garage he originally wanted to repair the car saying it was worth 
£35,000. 
When calculating market  value, our longstanding position is that the main motor trade guides 
are a reliable  way to decide a valuation rather than adverts.  Due to the age of the car and 
when we received  this complaint, I can find market  values from two trade guides. These give 
market values for Mr Bs car of £17,200  and £19,683. So both the amount offered  initially 
and the increased  offer are in this range. 
But I think that using  the trade guides  as the sole indicator of the value of Mr Bs car could 
lead to an unfair outcome. Mr Bs car is a rare sports car, which is no longer being made. My 
enquiries indicate that theres less than 400 remaining on the road in the UK. And Mr Bs car 
was a rare specification of this model. And so given the rarity, it would be difficult for the 
Ref: DRN27396172trade guides to get a reliable value.  I think this is the case  here because, as Ill mention, the 
adverts Ive seen for similar cars have a wide range of values. 
I know Mr B considers his car was worth  more than the assessed market value because  of 
restoration work which had been done  on the car. Hes mentioned a chassis  restoration  as 
having been done. But this was done  nearly 10 years ago. I cant  agree that work done  so 
long ago would mean the car would  be worth nearly twice as much as the market value. And 
I havent seen  anything to show how any other modifications or restoration to the car could 
mean it was worth nearly  twice the market value.
Mr Bs also sent adverts showing the prices of similar cars are more than has been  offered. 
Ive also located  adverts  for similar cars. While I cant assess the condition of these cars in 
comparison to Mr Bs, the lowest advertised  price of any of them is £18,000, which  is what  
Lloyds offered. The highest price  is £45,000. But the majority are between £21,000 and 
£28,000. 
Even taking  into account that the advertised price will often be higher than the actual selling 
price, I think  that the adverts do suggest that the market  value  of Mr Bs car was more  than 
the £18,000 which was offered.
The policy limit
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy say that the most  Lloyds  will pay is The UK 
mainland market value of your vehicle as determined by us, immediately before the loss; up 
to the value shown on your schedule, and that, in cases  where the car is written off, Our 
offer will not exceed  the amount shown on schedule. On Mr Bs schedule of insurance the 
value of the car is £18,000.
Mr B says he wasnt aware of this. This services  usual position is that, irrespective of these 
conditions, if the market value of the car is higher  than on the schedule, the insurer  should 
pay the market value.  
Ive also listened  to Mr Bs telephone call to his broker when he took out the policy.  In this he 
said the value  of the car was around £18,000. This value appears on the policy schedule. So 
I think the offer made by Lloyds  was consistent  with what  Mr B understood to be the value of 
the car when  he took out the policy. He also said he knew  that, in the event of the claim,  the 
insurance would pay the market value  of the car. Im satisfied that he believed when he 
spoke to the broker that the market value  of the car was around £18,000. But I accept this 
would have been an estimate  by Mr B. He hadnt been trying  to either buy or sell the car at 
that time,  and so wouldnt have been  looking at prices of other cars. 
I think its important that Mr B referred  to knowing that the payment  of a claim was based on 
the market value of the car. I cant see anything  to show  that he was made aware of the 
strict limit which Lloyds now seeks to rely on when he took out the policy.  And theres no 
reference in the Key Facts document which he was sent that the settlement would be limited 
to the value stated  on the schedule. Id usually expect a condition which limits the settlement 
in this way to be highlighted in the Key Facts  document.   
So, in light of these  points, I dont think its fair for Lloyds to rely on this condition to limit its 
settlement to £18,000. I think  it should pay the market  value,  which as Ive said above  is 
more than £18,000.
Ref: DRN27396173Putting things right
As Ive said,  the majority of the adverts  Ive seen for models of the same car as Mr Bs are 
for between  £21,000  and £28,000. But as these are advertised prices,  not selling prices,  I 
think its reasonable to say the lower end of this range would be a representation of the 
market value, given  that some  haggling on price is common in car sales.  I think a figure of 
£23,000 is a fair settlement in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr B believes his car was worth more than either  the figure Ive settled on 
or what Lloyds has offered. But as Ive said, I cant see that the restoration  work carried  out 
on it would  make it worth significantly more than the cars advertised.  Some  of the adverts 
Ive seen for the cars for sale between £21,000 and £28,000 are advertised as having similar 
work carried out. So I think the value Ive settled on does take the work done  by Mr B into 
account.
I also think Lloyds should pay interest  at a rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of its 
last offer to Mr B to the date of settlement. Lloyds would be entitled to deduct  from its 
settlement the salvage value of Mr Bs car if he wants  to keep it.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr B and Lloyds both responded to the provisional decision. 
Mr B agreed in principle  with an increased  amount being offered in settlement of the claim,  
but he thought that the amount should  be higher.  In support of this position  he provided 
written estimates from two garages  estimating the value of his car to be between  £25,000  
and £30,000.  
Lloyds disagreed with the provisional decision. It said that I had said that it had used 
accepted methods to calculate  its settlement offer and that I hadnt provided any compelling 
reason or justification for why it should  pay more  than this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to reiterate all of the points Ive made previously, but believe them to remain  
relevant to my considerations here.  Ill address the arguments made by Lloyds and Mr B 
separately.
Lloyds dont believe that theres  any reason that it should offer more  than it did, as that was 
in line with the valuation tools normally used to calculate market value. Ive never  disagreed 
that the figure it offered  was in line with the market value for Mr Bs car as indicated  by those 
tools. But as Ive said, Im not satisfied that the tools give a reliable and fair market value for 
Mr Bs car. 
These tools look at the average selling price of similar cars.  Mr Bs car is particularly rare 
and so there will not be many sales to direct these market value calculators. Its absolutely 
apparent that similar models are advertised  for significantly  more than the market value as 
indicated by the trade tools. And even when taking into account the likelihood of the selling 
Ref: DRN27396174price being  lower than the advertised price  I cant see how similar  cars would be selling for 
the amount offered by Lloyds. 
While our service  takes an approach that generally  the use of valuation  tools is a reasonable 
method of identifying the value, there will always be occasions when this isnt the case.  I 
think that this is one of those occasions. Where the car is rare, and theres  evidence  to 
suggest that selling prices  of that model are significantly higher  than the figure given by the 
valuation tools,  I think its reasonable  to conclude that the market value would be higher. 
I note that Lloyds didnt make  any comment  about the maximum settlement as stated in the 
insurance schedule  I wont comment further  on this point. My considerations remain  
unchanged.
Mr Bs evidence  that the settlement should be higher than £23,000  consists  of two notes  
from garages which had previously seen his car before it was damaged. One of these 
suggests that the car was worth £30,000,  and the other suggests its market value was 
£25,000. 
I note that these two documents  have  been  prepared by specialist garages who have 
experience of selling and maintaining models similar to Mr Bs. One of these gives a value 
essentially in the middle of the prices shown  in the adverts Ive previously referred to, while 
the other is higher than the majority  of the adverts. I cant  see that, other than referring to the 
condition of the car and the expense  incurred by Mr B in maintaining it, there  is a specific 
reason why his car would be worth more  than those being advertised,  the majority  of which  
were at similarly specialist dealers.
I remain satisfied that the market value of Mr Bs car can be established  by relying  on the 
adverts Id previously considered. The question is where within the range  of prices could be 
reasonably taken to represent the market  value. I dont think simply settling in the middle of 
these prices is fair. Doing  so wouldnt take into account the likelihood of cars selling for less 
than the advertised  price.  On that basis, I still remain  satisfied that £23,000, this being 
slightly less than the mid-point of the advertised prices, is a fair figure  for the market  value of 
Mr Bs car at the time of the incident.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint. To put things right,  Society of Lloyds must:
Settle Mr Bs claim using a market value of his car of £23,000. If he wishes to retain 
the car, it may make  a deduction  from the settlement  of the scrappage value.
Pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on the amount  settled  from the date of its 
last offer to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Ben Williams
ombdusman
Ref: DRN27396175
Ref: DRN2739617