K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the service he received from the National Westminster Bank plc 
(NatWest ) when making  an application for a loan fell short  of that which he expected to 
receive. He thought the advisor to whom he spoke on the telephone  was rude and asked 
intrusive and unnecessary  questions.
background
In September  2018 Mr B responded to an advert  on his mobile banking app regarding  a loan 
offer. He said the offer stated he would get a decision in minutes  and so he made an 
application. Having  done so, he received a message that he had been  pre-approved for a 
loan. He expected the loan to appear in his account the next day, but when he chased  the 
application the following day the advisor  asked him some questions concerning why he 
wanted the loan. He explained he wanted to buy a car for around  £15,000,  and also to go on 
a holiday. The advisor asked Mr B for the holiday destination and he initially objected  to 
providing it, although subsequently saying China. He thought the line of questioning was 
intrusive, unnecessary  and rude and instructed the advisor that he no longer wanted to 
proceed with the application.
NatWest said that on completing  the application Mr B was advised that he would  be 
contacted within three  days. That they said was because it was necessary to ask further 
questions to finalise  the loan application, and in accordance with their internal process  
requirements. They did not accept that the questioning was intrusive or that the advisor had 
been rude, but did accept the advisor  could have provided more context as to why NatWest 
need to know  the destination  of his holiday.
Mr B was unhappy with NatWests response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked 
into the complaint  and in so doing reviewed NatWests internal  processes regarding loan 
applications. She acknowledged that Mr B had not expected to be questioned  regarding the 
purpose of the loan,  but nevertheless thought it was reasonable  that further information had 
been requested  in order to complete the application  process. In summary she did not feel 
NatWest had acted  unfairly or that the advisor had been rude.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
Ref: DRN26101002I have listened  to the call recording from 22 September 2018  and it is clear that the advisor 
was polite throughout the entirety  of that call. Unfortunately towards  the end Mr B became 
very abusive. He was asked to desist, but continued  resulting in the advisor terminating the 
call. In my view that was a reasonable step to take in those circumstances.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr B was told that the loan he had applied  for 
had been unconditionally granted to him or that the loan monies would appear in his account 
the following  day. Indeed,  despite cancelling his application he subsequently received the 
loan agreement for his signature through the post. That documentation had been generated 
prior to his cancellation  and could not be stopped  from being  posted out. That indicates to 
me that the loan had not been approved at that time.  Supporting that view is an email  
NatWest sent to Mr B on the 22 September which stated that Mr B would be required to 
complete the loan agreement before the loan could  be approved. A relevant passage of the 
email states;
as soon  as you have  signed your Personal  Loan Agreement we will be able to do 
our final checks  and be able to make a decision  on approving your Loan.
I am satisfied that it was made clear  to Mr B that NatWest would therefore  be doing final 
checks before making a decision  upon whether to lend him the money.
Mr B has asked  that the credit search  performed  by NatWest  be removed. But NatWest  were 
required to undertake the credit search since Mr B had made the application for the loan. 
That step was quite proper. In my view NatWest  correctly performed  the credit  search  and it 
is only correct therefore that his credit history reflects that. I do not therefore  consider that it 
ought to be removed 
I am also satisfied that the advisor did not tell Mr B that the credit search would definitely be 
removed. What she actually said was that the complaint would be investigated  although 
even if it were decided  that the search should be removed, it would not be removed that day.
What I need to decide if NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr B. And I 
am satisfied  that NatWest  correctly followed their own internal  processes in respect of the 
questions asked of Mr B and that those questions were necessary and reasonable in order 
to allow  them to complete the loan application  process. The advisor  dealt with Mr B politely 
and was not rude. So I cant say that NatWest  has done anything wrong and Im not going to 
ask it to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2019.
Ref: DRN26101003Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2610100