K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that she was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a 
store card in 1997. 
Although PPI was sold to Miss F in a clothing shop,  Financial  Insurance Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale. So to keep  things simple,  Ill refer to FICL  
for the rest of this decision. 
I can also see that Miss F has two complaints with us about FICL. To be clear, this decision 
refers to the PPI that was taken out in July 1997  only. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Fs complaint should be upheld. Miss F disagreed  with that 
view and so the matter has been  passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss F, but I havent  upheld her complaint. 
As I said above, Miss F was sold PPI in a store. I cant  know what  was said to her during that 
sale. To help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Miss F told us 
about the sale. And Ive also considered the paperwork  that is available from that time.  
The first thing Ive looked  at is whether  Miss F would have known the PPI was optional  and 
she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Ive thought carefully about what Miss F 
said on this point. Ive had the benefit  of seeing the agreement that Miss F signed at the time 
she applied  for her store card. Theres a section headed Protect your account now along 
with some brief information  about  the PPI cover. Miss F has selected  a box to indicate she 
wanted the cover. I can see another financial product has been refused by Miss F on that 
application form. So I think its likely that she knew  she was choosing a PPI policy  and that 
she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. 
The evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest that FICL advised Miss F to buy this PPI cover. But 
it still had to make sure she had enough information  about it so she could decide  for herself 
whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
I accept it is possible that there were  information failings when Miss F bought this PPI policy.  
So the question  for me now is whether Miss F would  have acted differently if FICL had told 
her everything it should have done. To help me decide what  shes  likely to have done, Ive 
considered the terms and conditions of the policy.  And Ive also looked at what  Miss F told 
us about her personal circumstances at the time.  
I can see that if Miss F had made  a claim on the PPI cover,  15% of her credit card balance  
would have been repaid  every month for up to 12 months for each  claim.  I can see that Miss 
Ref: DRN22200082F would have received  some sick pay from her employer if she couldnt  work. But the PPI 
would have paid out for longer than her full pay would have lasted.  Miss F told us that she 
didnt have any other way of meeting  her repayments if she couldnt work. So it follows  that 
the PPI would have offered cover for longer than the means Miss F already  had in place. 
Miss F told us that she was in good health at the time she took out this PPI policy.  So I dont 
think shed have been affected by any of the policys conditions  about medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything else unusual about her employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to. Overall, I think  the PPI could 
have been helpful to Miss F at what would  have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if 
she was out of work. I dont think more or better  information would have put her off taking the 
cover out. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss F, but after taking  account of all the evidence  before me, I 
havent upheld  the complaint. 
my final decision 
I havent upheld  this complaint about  Financial  Insurance Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220008