K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2008. Mr T says First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr T took out with a hire purchase 
agreement in 2008. The loan was secured against a car Mr T was buying. The loan included  
FRF lending Mr T an amount to pay for the PPI policy, which  had to be paid for up front.  
Mr T applied  for the PPI over the phone.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think FRF made it clear  that Mr T didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
FRF doesnt have a call recording  from when  the PPI was sold. Thats understandable given 
the time that has passed. But it means  I dont know exactly what was discussed.  So Ive 
looked at the information  we do have alongside both parties comments.
FRF has sent a copy of the telephone script it says their representative would have  used. Its 
also sent its record of the answers Mr T gave. And I can see that, after asking questions 
about Mr Ts circumstances  and recommending the product to him, the script then prompts 
the representative to ask Mr T for his consent  to proceed with the policy.  So I think  its likely 
FRF made  it clear  that Mr T had a choice about taking the cover during this call.
FRF also provided Mr T with written information about the policy  a short  time after the call. It 
has provided a copy  of the credit agreement which would have been sent to him and I can 
see that this refers to the PPI policy as optional. It also included a section for him to tick 
and sign to confirm  he wanted the PPI, along  with the other products he had agreed to take 
out. So if Mr T didnt want to take out this cover, or believed that he had to have it, I think  he 
would have questioned this with FRF when  he saw this listed  as optional  on the form. 
So, based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think FRF made it clear  the policy  was 
optional and that Mr T agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want  it.
FRF recommended  the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover,  such as having 
unusual working  arrangements  or suffering from a medical condition of which  he was already 
Ref: DRN29064012aware. And he seems  to have had a need for the cover  Mr T had told us he wasnt  entitled 
to any sick pay from his employer and he didnt have any savings or other means with which 
to meet  his repayments if he wasnt working.  So I think  this policy  could have provided him 
with a useful benefit.
I can see from the telephone script that it prompts the sales  person to provide the quotation 
for the policy. And so I think that the cost of the cover would have been made clear to Mr T 
when he took it out. But its possible that not all of the information FRF gave Mr T about  the 
PPI was as clear as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means FRF doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But FRF will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
FRF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because FRF didnt tell Mr T, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, FRF has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
FRF has to pay back to Mr T commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. FRF should  also pay back to Mr T any extra interest  he paid because of 
that.
FRF should pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr T paid if the loan was paid off early. FRF should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest on the 
extra paid each  month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so First Response Finance Ltd does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But First Response Finance Ltd does have  to pay back  to Mr T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ref: DRN29064013ombudsman
Ref: DRN2906401