K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about the increasing cost of her Aviva Insurance Limited home  insurance  
policy. 
background
Miss P took out a home insurance policy with Aviva in October 2015. In July 2016 she made 
a claim for accidental damage to her conservatory roof. In March 2018  Miss P complained  to 
Aviva about  the increase in her premiums. She said that before she made the claim she paid 
£53 per month for her policy but that increased  at the 2016 renewal to £76.47 per month and 
again in 2017 to £89.33 per month. Miss P said the average price  for a similar property in 
her neighbourhood was £120-£150 a year.  She asked Aviva  to provide a breakdown of the 
price increases and to explain  what she was paying  for. 
In April 2018 Miss P complained to this service about the repairs  to her roof Avivas  
contractor had carried out and about the premium increases  shed experienced. The two 
complaints were separated and the complaint about the roof was the subject of a final 
decision by one of my colleagues  back in May.  The complaint about the premiums appeared 
to have been overlooked  by Aviva so this service asked it to provide us with information. 
Upon receipt of the requested information,  our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint 
about the pricing of her policy. He said Aviva  hadnt  treated  Miss P unfairly in the way itd 
priced her policy so he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  
Miss P disagreed with our investigator. She said her premiums  had also increased at the 
2015 renewal  and she said that Aviva  had wasted time by taking so long to respond to her 
complaint. She asked  for her complaint  to be referred for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Miss P, I dont think her complaint  should  be upheld. Ill explain  why. 
I cant tell Aviva what price it needs  to charge  to cover the risk for Miss Ps home insurance. 
Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of her needing to make a 
claim and its wider  commercial requirements. What  this service  can do though,  when a 
consumer complains about the price  they have  been charged, is look at whether the insurer  
has treated the consumer  fairly and whether it can explain why its charged  the price  it has. 
We can then explain to the consumer that weve checked the price theyve been charged 
and are satisfied that theyve been treated fairly and in line with the way that the insurer has 
treated all its other customers with similar  risk profiles. 
Aviva has provided us with some  information  about  how it priced Miss Ps policy.  Im afraid I 
cant share that with Miss P because  its commercially sensitive but Id like to reassure  her 
that Ive checked  it very carefully. Having done  so I can see that Aviva has applied  its 
chosen pricing model fairly and in the same  way it would to any other of its customers  in 
similar circumstances. 
Insurers will take a number of factors (a consumers claims history, post code,  crime 
statistics etc.) into account  when  deciding what price to charge and these will vary from 
insurer to insurer. I can see that Miss P made  a claim in 2016. A consumers claims history 
Ref: DRN20815162is an important factor which any insurer would take into account when assessing the risk its 
being asked to take on and deciding what price to charge  for doing so. This service  doesnt 
interfere in an insurers choice of factors it wants to rate on.
Miss Ps complaint concerned her premiums from the 2016 renewal onwards. That means I 
cant consider any complaint about  the cost of her policy from 2015 here; Miss P would have 
to raise that complaint with Aviva  in the first instance  so it could have the opportunity to 
consider it. 
I note that Miss P has also complained about  how Aviva handled her complaint.  This service 
has no power to look into a complaint about how a business has handled  a consumers 
complaint so Im unable  to consider that further  here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2081516