K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  plc has taken too long to transfer funds from his closed 
accounts.
background
In 2013 HSBC gave Mr M notice  that it was closing  his accounts. It wasnt until 2018 that 
Mr M was able to give HSBC the information it needed to transfer the money  out of the 
accounts.
Mr M provided what was needed  in July 2018.  His intended beneficiary hadnt  received the 
money by October  2018 and Mr M complained. His complaint was referred to this service in 
December 2018.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She concluded that HSBC 
had closed the accounts in line with their terms and conditions, and she didnt think  it was 
unreasonable that the bank had to carry out security  checks  before releasing the money.
But the adjudicator found that HSBC had taken too long to release the money once  Mr M 
had provided what  was needed. She said the bank should pay compensation of £300, plus 
annual interest of 8% simple on the balances from 30 October 2018.
Mr M had travelled from overseas to visit HSBC.  But the adjudicator couldnt safely say that 
the purpose of his visits was solely to deal with the accounts, so she didnt recommend 
HSBC should  cover Mr Ms travel costs.
Mr M responded to say that hed had to make unnecessary journeys to the UK to try to close 
the accounts. But he accepted the compensation suggested by the adjudicator.
HSBC didnt respond to the adjudicators recommendations, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen and been  told, I agree with the adjudicator that HSBC has taken too 
long to transfer Mr Ms account  balances to his intended beneficiary. I understand that the 
money still hasnt been transferred, and that HSBC hasnt provided an explanation for the 
continued delay.
I agree  with the adjudicator that HSBC should pay £300 to Mr M, together  with annual 
interest of 8% simple  on the balances from 30 October 2018 to the date on which the 
transfers were or are made.
If HSBC hasnt yet paid the money to Mr Ms intended  beneficiary, it should also provide an 
explanation to Mr M for the continued  delay within 28 days of the date of settlement  of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN21382082Ive noted what  Mr M has said about the trips he needed to make  to the UK. But like the 
adjudicator, I dont think I can safely say that those journeys were made solely to deal with 
the accounts. So I wont be asking HSBC to cover Mr Ms travel costs.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
pay £300 to Mr M. HSBC must pay this compensation within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
pay annual interest of 8% simple  on the account balances  from 30 October 2018 to 
the date the transfers  were or are made. 
provide Mr M with an explanation for the continued delay within 28 days of settlement 
of this complaint,  if it hasnt yet paid the money  to his intended beneficiary.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income
tax from the interest  elements of this award,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken
off. It should  also give him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2138208