K820x#14complaint
Ms Y complains  about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under her car 
insurance policy. 
background
In May 2017, Ms Y was involved in a car accident  and made a claim to UKI under her 
insurance policy. She says UKI has caused unnecessary  delays in repairing her car; failed to 
update her or respond to correspondence; didnt provide a courtesy car; and increased her 
premium at renewal.
UKI say liability was denied by the third party which has caused delays in resolving the 
claim. But it acknowledges  there  have been  some failings in the way in which  it has 
progressed things and so offered £200 compensation. There  were  issues  of Ms Y not 
returning calls with a repairer and so the car didnt get booked in.
UKI say there has been problems with the garage  who were instructed to repair  the car. 
They initially  accepted the job, but are now saying they cant book Ms Y in. UKI instructed 
another garage, but there  appears to be some miscommunication about the arrangements.  
So UKI has offered  a further £75 compensation for the trouble and upset associated with 
this. 
The remaining  parts  of Ms Ys complaint have been declined. UKI say she wasnt  entitled to 
a courtesy car because  her car was driveable. And her premium increased at renewal 
because she had an open claim at that time.  UKI says that if the claim settles in Ms Ys 
favour, it will review  her premium to reflect this. But any claim, regardless of fault, will have 
an effect on the price  of a policy. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  that the compensation UKI 
offered is fair in the circumstances  of the complaint. And she didnt think  it needed to do 
anything more. 
But Ms Y disagrees. She wants a full refund  of the cost of the policy for the year in which the 
accident occurred  as she doesnt  feel that UKI fulfilled  the contract she held with it. Shes 
prepared to accept  a 60% refund.  The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill address the complaint 
points separately below.
There is a general requirement  on insurers to handle claims promptly  and fairly. In acting 
promptly UKI should take reasonable  steps  to move  claims on, for example by arranging  
repairs and communicating with third parties  or third-party insurers  to agree liability  and 
settlement terms where relevant. In this complaint I note the circumstances of the accident  
arent straightforward and the third party has solicitors acting for them.
Delays 
Ref: DRN25609792This accident occurred  in May 2017 and Ms Ys car was still not repaired at the point she 
raised her second complaint in July 2018.  This is over a year which  in my view is not 
reasonable in the circumstances. If there is a liability dispute that shouldnt generally mean 
repairs cant be carried out under the insurance policy.  UKI acknowledge this and its failings 
in handling the claim and has offered compensation totalling £275 to reflect whats  gone  
wrong. 
As its not in dispute that UKI has caused some delays, I need  to determine whether UKI has 
done enough to put things right. So, Ive thought about the impact the delays have had on 
Ms Y and the amount  UKI has offered. 
Ms Y remained in possession of the car as it was deemed driveable. Ms Y has told us she 
was reluctant to drive  it as she felt it was unsafe. Whilst I can appreciate her concerns, I 
havent seen anything to show me the car wasnt roadworthy and couldnt  be used. Im 
satisfied the impact of the delay in repairing Ms Ys car was limited and confined  to the 
distress in driving around a damaged car, and the inconvenience of asking UKI when repairs 
would be carried out. 
Our service can award compensation  when we see that things have gone wrong. Ive taken 
into account that Ms Y didnt lose the use of the car and there were periods UKI say that 
Ms Y didnt return calls or make arrangements with the repairer  to book her car in. Its 
apparent that Ms Y works long hours and couldnt  take calls during the day. Overall, I accept 
that Ms Y would  have experienced annoyance and frustration in not having her car repaired 
as quickly as she should have. And on review of whats happened,  Im satisfied the total of 
£275 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Im satisfied it reflects the 
impact of the delay  and Im mindful  that compensation  in this case is not a punishment  on 
UKI, but a reflection  of distress and inconvenience  caused  to Ms Y.
Ms Y wants a refund  of her policy for the year the accident occurred, but I wont  be asking 
UKI to do this. Ms Y has had the benefit of the car insurance policy for these 12 months (a 
mandatory requirement under road traffic laws) and has made a claim which  UKI are 
honouring. Unless Ms Y wants to forfeit the policy and become personally liable for the claim 
 including  the cost of repairs and any legal action that may be required to resolve the 
liability dispute  I think its in her best interests for the policy  to remain in place.  
Courtesy car
Ms Y says shes entitled  to a courtesy  car under  the terms  of her car insurance  policy  but 
didnt receive one. The policy terms and conditions say:
You may only use the hire car whilst your car remains off the road or whilst your car is with 
an approved repairer as a result of an accident, fire or theft. 
As Ms Ys car has not been deemed off the road and wasnt  in for repairs, Im not 
persuaded she qualified for a courtesy car. I havent  seen anything  to show me that the car 
was unsafe for Ms Y to drive whilst she was waiting for the repairs  to be carried  out.
Renewal premium
When Ms Ys policy renewed,  this claim was outstanding in so far as it was still active. UKI 
calculated the renewal price based  on a fault claim,  which is common practice across  the car 
insurance industry. This is because fault relates to UKIs outlay, or potential  outlay, in 
Ref: DRN25609793dealing with the claim that it is unlikely to recover from another party. And if the claim is later 
resolved as non-fault (so it wont be financially out of pocket for Ms Ys claim), UKI will be 
able to recalculate the premium and refund any overpayment Ms Y has made. The open 
claim impacted the no claims  discount.
Ive reviewed the breakdown of Ms Ys renewal, and while  I cant  share this information with 
her due to its commercially sensitive nature, I am satisfied that it shows an increase in her 
premium because of the unresolved claim. Ms Y should contact UKI to recalculate  the 
premium if her claim is later resolved in her favour.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited has 
done enough to resolve the delays and failings in its claims handling. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2560979