K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
This decision will not name any party other than British Gas Insurance  Limited. Where I refer 
to British Gas I refer to that insurance company and I include its associated plumbing and 
drainage company and others  insofar as I hold the insurance company responsible for their 
actions.
Mr D is self-employed. He lives with his wife and two young children. Their  home  is a 
bungalow with solid cement-screed floors. He had home buildings and contents insurance 
with another insurer   his home  insurer.
He also had a British Gas Homecare 4 policy. It covered central  heating, plumbing and 
drainage and home electrics.
In early March 2019 Mr D found evidence of a water  leak in the hallway outside  the 
bathroom and a bedroom. He called British Gas for help. 
He complained about poor communication and about a cancelled appointment for 8 March. 
British Gas made several visits. 
On 10 April 2019 while digging  up part of the floor, British Gas hit a pipe causing  an escape 
of water.  British Gas led Mr D to believe it had fixed the leaks.  He complained about 
worsening water damage to flooring, walls  and a bed and dressing  table.
In May 2019  British  Gas and Mr D each engaged a loss assessor. Mr Ds loss assessor  
engaged a leak-detection company. It visited on 20 and 29 May 2019 and stopped  two 
leaks. The loss assessor gave an estimate of £25,000.00 to £50,000.00  for repair of the 
water damage. Mr D and his family  moved  out of their home and into temporary rented 
accommodation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that the 
actions by the British Gas engineers and the service in general had been unsatisfactory. He 
recommended that British  Gas should:
1.assess its position in relation  to paying the total costs for the repairs  to Mr Ds 
property upon  receiving an accurate and reasonable figure from his loss assessor;
2.assess the removal costs and the leak detection invoice with a view to paying these 
in full;
3.either replace   the bed and dressing table or pay a cash amount to cover  the full 
costs of these items;
Ref: DRN260296124.pay Mr D £750.00 to compensate for the service  received, the inconvenience and 
stress caused to Mr D and his family,  and also Mr D financially losing a paid day of 
work as a result of the appointment  on 8 March being cancelled;
5.deal with the claim as originally made,  and for Mr D to inform his home  insurer  to 
withdraw their claim so there is no extra cost to Mr D in terms of premiums  with his 
home insurer.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to British  Gas on 16 January 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
I found British Gas responsible for causing all the escapes of water in 2019.
British Gas caused him distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr D or from British Gas, my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  British Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr D £750.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D accepts the provisional decision. British  Gas hasnt responded to the provisional  
decision. Therefore  I see no reason to change  my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A floor plan shows the layout of the bungalow.  The master bedroom  had an en-suite shower. 
The family bathroom had a bath and separate shower. As the family had young children,  I 
accept Mr Ds statement that it hardly used the shower in the bathroom.  
I accept Mr Ds statement that he had the policy in 2016 when  British  Gas repaired a leak 
from water  pipes between  the bathroom  door and the bathroom shower. He has sent us a 
photograph of the hole dug in the floor and back-filled with screed.  I have noted  the floor 
tiles. I think he must  have had the floor re-tiled as there are different tiles in later 
photographs.
The British  Gas policy renewed in late September 2018. It covered making  access  through  a 
floor, repairing  a leak and making the floor level. But it contained the following exclusions:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults  that:
 Were already there when your boiler,  appliance or system  was installed
 Existed when you first took out the product
 Weve told you about before and you havent fixed
 We couldnt reasonably  have been  expected to know about before. For example, 
faulty pipes that dont  have the correct  protection, which are buried under concrete 
floors
Any other loss or damage
Ref: DRN26029613Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless we 
caused it. For example  damage caused by water leaks.
When he contacted  British Gas in March  2019,  it was for help with a water leak underneath  
the flooring in the hallway  outside the bathroom. His photographs show some damage  to 
that flooring before British  Gas lifted it.
From the outset, British  Gas gave Mr D poor service. After he booked an appointment for 7 
March 2019 and D took that day off work, he found British Gas had cancelled  the 
appointment without  telling  him.
On 8 and 12 March, British Gas made  unproductive visits.  
On 20 March British  Gas did some digging outside  the bathroom  but didnt find the leak. 
Instead it diagnosed a leak of waste water under the shower. From the earlier  leak in 2016 
and from events later in 2019,  I think that on 20 March British  Gas missed the opportunity to 
find a leak or leaks under  the floor of the bathroom  and/or hallway. But there had been 
leakage for some time.  
On 28 March British  Gas made another visit. And during a visit on 10 April,  British Gas hit a 
cold pipe under the hallway floor, causing a serous water leak under the wooden flooring 
and into the bedroom.
Worse, it said it had fixed the leaks when  it hadnt.  It filled in the hole in the floor with screed 
which the photographs show wasnt level. 
When Mr D sent in photographs of continuing and worsening damage,  British  Gas didnt 
respond quickly enough. So in May Mr D engaged a loss assessor who in turn engaged (and 
paid) a leak detection company.
That company visited  on 20 and 29 May.  On the first visit it found and fixed  a leak from a 
cold water  compression fitting  near the British Gas repair  under the hall floor.  On its second 
visit it found and fixed a leak from a hot water speed-fit fitting under the bathroom floor.  
From the 2016 photograph, I find British Gas responsible for the speed fitting and its poor 
durability. 
The leak detection company summarised  as follows:
It is possible that there was only one leak to begin with and this was on the speed  fit 
fitting found in the bathroom  floor today. With this in mind, when the original third 
party contractor came to carry out the leak detection  and hit a pipe in the hallway 
floor; causing a leak, upon repairing this section of pipe a second leak was made. 
This was on the cold water compression fitting  that we found on our first visit. This 
leak was found  on a compression fitting approximately  300mm  from the repair which 
possibly turned and subsequently loosened when  the repair was made by the third 
party contractor
That sounds  rather speculative. 
Ref: DRN26029614But the photographs  show  that  rather  than drying  out after 10 April - something caused  an 
increase in water damage. That couldve been a deterioration of the leak in the bathroom. 
But British  Gas had filled in the hole in the hallway  and left without finding or fixing  the leak in 
the bathroom  and without any plan to visit again. That was poor service. So I find it more  
likely than not that British Gas also caused the leak on the cold water compression fitting.
So I find British Gas responsible for causing all the escapes of water  in 2019.
Nevertheless, I find that Mr D reluctantly claimed against his home  insurer  for the damage 
and consequential  costs including removals and alternative accommodation.  I think its now 
too late for him to withdraw  that claim. 
From what  hes said, he didnt  pay or suffer the policy excess  of £350.00. 
Mr D hasnt given enough details of his earnings or loss of earnings. Mr D hasnt given us 
details of any other uninsured financial loss. Rather he has said that his home insurer 
covered his costs.  So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to compensate  
him for any such financial loss.
But I dont doubt  that British Gas caused  him distress and inconvenience. As hes the 
policyholder, I will assess compensation on the footing that his distress  and inconvenience 
included his distress  at that suffered  by his wife and children.  So I think the outcome 
wouldve been much  the same  if Mr and Mrs D had been joint policyholders.
That distress  and inconvenience went on for most of 2019 and included having  to move out 
of their home and back in again in December.  Overall, I find £750.00  fair and reasonable 
compensation for such distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr D £750.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2602961