K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complained that Cofunds Limited  did not provide her financial advisor with online 
access to her investments  for around  six months,  and this prevented  him carrying out a 
rebalancing of her portfolio.
background
Cofunds said that due to a system  upgrade its online site was out of operation  on 25 April 
2018 and that it had given  clients intermediaries  advance warning of this. It didnt accept this 
had led to Mrs L suffering  a loss as it had seen  no evidence  that her advisor  had rebalanced 
her portfolio  subsequently. But it offered her £200 in lieu of the inconvenience this might  
have caused.
An adjudicator at this service  felt there  was no persuasive evidence  to indicate that Mrs Ls 
advisor had sought  to rebalance her portfolio. She also felt that Cofunds had clearly 
explained in advance that the site would be unavailable on or from the date in question  
during an upgrade, albeit that this upgrade  took much longer than expected  to be fully 
operational.
Mrs Ls representative said he recognised it was impossible to say what  rebalancing he 
might have done and whether this would  have delivered an improved performance.  But he 
thought it was reasonable to assume he might have been able to deliver a 1% better  
performance on Mrs Ls £100,000 portfolio with some changes and therefore compensation 
of this order seemed  fair i.e. £1,000.
He did not accept Cofunds argument that he could  have rebalanced Mrs Ls investment mix 
in April 2018 before the planned  upgrade and that as he hadnt  done so he never intended  
to. He said that he was a one-man-band and rebalanced clients  portfolios once or twice a 
year, and had other urgent client issues to deal with that month. Given  Cofunds 
reassurances about how long the upgrade would take, he assumed he could do a 
rebalancing once the system  was back online, never expecting this to take half a year or 
more. It was not until December 2018 that he was able to efficiently alter the portfolio of his 
clients via the new online site. While he had done  some changes to Mrs Ls portfolio  over the 
phone in October this was very time-consuming,  cumbersome and unsatisfactory.
Mrs Ls representative also detailed  the extensive  problems  he faced between April and 
December in getting assistance from Cofunds about  his clients portfolios and the unresolved 
issues with the upgrade.  He also referenced stories which  reported  on the problems this was 
causing clients and the industry-wide concern about this.
He also felt Cofunds attempts to pass the blame on to him was utterly disingenuous, 
particularly when its widely-reported failings had created an enormous amount of work for 
advisors trying to represent  their clients interests.
Mrs L said she did not agree with her advisors estimate  that her likely losses amounted to 
around £1,000.  Instead, her investments had fallen by more than £8,000 during the time he 
had not been able to access  the platform to rebalance her portfolio. She also pointed  out that 
she had paid £1,500 in fees throughout this year despite the service being completely 
inadequate.
Ref: DRN29208012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
Mrs Ls advisor does not claim  that the upgrade problem resulted in Mrs L suffering a 
specific loss (by, for example, outlining what fund changes  he would have made on what  
specific date if hed been able to and/or why this was impossible to do by phone). Instead, 
he says that from a practical  point of view it made  it very hard it to fully rebalance her funds, 
something he would have done at some point during the time the platform was not fully 
operational. 
Overall, I dont  dispute that Mrs L may have suffered a smaller loss on her investments if this 
had been possible  but I dont think there is sufficient evidence to safely or fairly  reach  such  a 
conclusion. Let alone calculate  what this loss might have been.
I dont believe the actual fall in Mrs Ls investments over this period can be clearly  or fairly 
attributed to a failure to rebalance her portfolio.  The markets were  falling  throughout this time 
and this explains why her portfolio fell in value.  Ive seen no evidence  to indicate  her advisor 
could have beaten this market trend.  He may have made some fund switches but one 
cannot know what impact such changes might have had; they could have reduced or 
increased her losses, or made no difference at all.
I accept that Mrs Ls advisor  appears  to have suffered a very significant  degree of trouble, 
upset and inconvenience as a result  of the ongoing platform  problems.  However, this 
complaint solely  concerns  the impact on Mrs L, and any distress and inconvenience 
payment can only be paid for the trouble and upset Mrs L has been caused not her advisor. 
Given this, I have not taken into account the advisors undoubted  additional time and effort 
spent coping with this prolonged system upgrade problems  when  assessing  whether 
Cofunds offer of £200 was fair and reasonable. I believe it was broadly in line with what we 
would have recommended  had it not done  so.
I have considered all the additional points raised by Mrs L and her advisor but I do not feel 
they alter the overall merits of this case. In essence,  I am not convinced that Mrs L lost out 
financially as a result  of the lengthy  platform unavailability, and I dont feel Cofunds offer of 
£200 for this issue was wholly  unreasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2920801