K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited did not provide a 
satisfactory service when he called to cancel his car and breakdown insurance policies.
background
Mr S tells us he did not wish to renew  his car insurance or car breakdown  insurance  with AA. 
So he called AA on 2 July 2018 to advise them of this and ensure his policies were not 
renewed automatically. He says he had to speak with two separate departments to cancel 
the policies which took over 10 minutes.  And AA did not provide a freephone number so he 
incurred costs even  though he did not renew  his policy. Mr S says he made a complaint 
during the call and that he did not receive an acknowledgement of this.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service on 25 July 2018 as he hadnt  heard from AA. And 
he remained  unhappy with the final response AA sent him on 7 September 2018.
AA say that their lines were busy when Mr S called and have apologised  for the wait. They  
explained that they use a variety of contact  numbers,  including freephone services for some 
areas of their business. But they decided to use a non-freephone number on their renewal 
documents.  
Our investigators view was that AA had acted fairly and it wasnt unreasonable to speak with 
two departments, or for the call to take the time it did and use an non-freephone  number.
Mr S remained unhappy  and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and largely for the same reasons.
The AA has confirmed to this service that their car insurance and breakdown  insurance  are 
handled by different departments. And this is why Mr S had to be passed from one 
department to the other. The internal department structure of the AA is for them to decide 
and whilst Mr S, and potentially other  AA customers may find this inconvenient Im satisfied 
that its not unreasonable for them to require customers to speak with both departments. 
The car insurance renewal notice  gives a 0344 number to call to discuss  a renewal, make 
changes or stop automatic renewal. A call to this number would cost the same  rate as a call 
to a standard home or business  landline  it is not a premium  rate number. This is a 
commercial decision and there is no requirement  for AA to provide a freephone number on 
their renewal document. So I cannot  comment further on this. 
I can understand it is frustrating that the call took as long as it did and Mr S was waiting in a 
queue even though he says he didnt  call during a peak time. But I cannot  say it is an 
unreasonable length of time. The renewal  line is available  for 12 hours a day in the week  
and for 8 hours  at weekends. And Ive seen that AA provide a number of other  contact points 
in the policy  booklets including PO Box number, 0800 numbers, website and email address 
which their customers can use.
Ref: DRN21567092Mr S also complained that hed not received an acknowledgement  of his complaint from AA. 
Complaint handling  by the business isnt something  that the Financial Ombudsman is able to 
investigate. Mr S tells us he sent approximately 20 emails to AA following his initial  call on 2 
July and Ive seen many of them.
Whilst Ive not considered  Mr Ss complaint about the way AA handled his complaint I can 
see that they responded to him on 25 July 2018, which is the day Mr S brought his complaint 
to this service. And they contacted him again  on 7 August 2018 and sent their final response 
on 7 September  2018.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2156709