K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that there was a mistake in his application  for his Level Term Assurance 
policy which  Legal & General Assurance Society  Limited shouldve  picked up on and 
because it didnt he doesnt now have the cover he needs.
background
Mr G applied online for the policy in October  2016 and wanted £470,000 of cover with a term 
of 25 years to cover  his mortgage. Based on the information Mr G provided L & G offered  to 
provide the cover he wanted at a premium of £183.  Mr G confirmed the details he had 
provided were correct on 7 November  2016 and cover was provided on that basis.
In April 2018 Mr G had reason to contact L & G who were unable to verify him as the date of 
birth he gave over the telephone was different from that provided in the online  application  in 
2016. When he sent in proof of his date of birth it wrote to him saying if he wanted his cover  
of £470,000 to continue  he would  need to increase the premium payment  to £327. 
Alternatively it said he could keep the same  premium but that cover would reduce to 
£212,500. 
As L & G had no record  of a response  it cancelled the original policy  and set up a new one 
with the same premium  but with the reduced level of cover.
L & G didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt  made any mistakes so wasnt  willing  to 
repay the premiums  paid since the start of the policy, as Mr G wanted. It said it could set up 
a new policy  to provide  cover of £470,000 if he wanted it to, on the basis  he paid the balance 
of the premium payable  in 2017  for that level of cover. It said until it heard from him it would 
provide cover of £212,000.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt uphold  it. He said it was for Mr G 
to make sure the information entered online was correct and that L & G will take the 
information at face value,  as do other  insurers. And that it will then base the cover it is willing 
to provide on that information.
The adjudicator said that L & G had no obligation to verify the details but that it does provide 
a copy of the policy schedule and asks the customer to confirm the details are correct - 
which he thought  it was reasonable for Mr G to have done. The adjudicator  said L & G had 
done nothing wrong in reducing the level of cover to what it wouldve provided at the outset 
once it became aware his date of birth was wrong.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicator.  In short he made the following points:
He didnt know L & G were providing the cover as he applied through  the company  
providing his mortgage  he only became aware of this when he received an email 
from L & G.
L & G will have  checked his credit  details and if something was wrong  with his 
personal details  it shouldve had a review  in place  to validate the information he 
provided.
He didnt get the opportunity to correct the information until he discussed extra cover 
with L & G.
L & G should know your customer.
Ref: DRN25595652As Mr G didnt  agree with the adjudicator the matter has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going  to uphold this complaint. I agree with the findings and opinion 
of the adjudicator.
Mr G is understandably concerned that his life cover now isnt sufficient to cover the whole of 
his mortgage  the new policy L & G set up in 2018, when it became aware his date of birth 
was wrong, provides less than half the cover he needs. I acknowledge this must be very 
worrying for him. But he isnt in this position  through anything that L & G has done wrong. 
The information provided to L & G was by online application  through  the mortgage provider. 
So L & G had no involvement  in the completion of the information. On receipt  of the online 
application it sent him a Your Personal Details Document which listed the questions  he was 
asked and the answers he gave. 
This asked  him to read the document carefully and check the answers he had given. He 
confirmed the answers  he had given were correct. The first question and answer section in 
the document was his personal details which detailed his name, address, date of birth and 
whether he was a smoker. So it shouldve been apparent to him, if he had read the 
document as he was asked to do, that his date of birth was wrong.  If he chose not to check 
the information that isnt something  that L & G is responsible for. So I dont agree with him 
that he only had the opportunity to correct  the information when he contacted Aviva in 2018.
I note he was also provided with a personal  quote  for the cover which showed the date of 
birth that had been put in the online application. So he had another opportunity to notice that 
his date of birth was wrong.
So I dont  agree with him that he only had the opportunity to correct  the information when he 
contacted Aviva in 2018. He couldve changed his details at the time of making  the 
application if he had checked the information  he had given - as he was asked to.
This complaint comes down to Mr G thinking  L & G shouldve done something more  to make 
sure the information  it was provided with was correct. But I dont  think it needed to do more 
than it did  namely to provide him with the information  he had given in his application  and 
ask him to check this and confirm whether it was accurate or not.
I note Mr G has said he didnt get the letter from Aviva in April 2018 which offered to keep 
the cover  the same  if he paid an increased  premium, or reduce the cover if he wanted  to 
keep the premium the same. But Im satisfied it sent this to him and I dont think  it did 
anything wrong  in then cancelling his original policy  given he hadnt  agreed to pay the 
higher, correct, premium  for this  and replacing it with a policy  providing the level of cover 
he was actually entitled to for the premium  he was paying.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Ref: DRN25595653Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2559565