K821x#15complaint
C complains that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt  fully compensated it for 
losses its suffered as a consequence of a mis-sold interest rate swap.
background
NatWest sold C an interest rate swap in 2002 when  Cs existing borrowing with NatWest was 
restructured. The loan was incorrectly booked in as a fixed  rate loan with a swap, rather  than 
a variable rate loan with a swap. NatWest corrected this in 2003. Because of what  had 
happened, however, the loan and the swap werent synchronised.  Cs loan and swap were 
later restructured in 2007 to a fixed rate loan to solve this, at which point the variable rate 
loan and swap were  cancelled. C later paid break costs of approximately £90,000 in 2012 
when it repaid the 2007 fixed rate loan early.
The sale of the swap in 2002 was later reviewed  by NatWest as part of a review agreed  
with the industry  regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)   the FCA  review,  into 
the way interest  rate hedging products were sold. Under this review  NatWest  offered to 
refund C, with interest, the payments it made to the swap. It also refunded some bank 
charges. Part of the offer was that C would  be free to submit a further  claim for 
consequential losses. C accepted this and NatWest paid C compensation of approximately 
£96,000.
C then made  its claim for consequential losses,  which it argues stem  from NatWest 
restructuring its loan to a fixed rate loan in 2007. NatWest didnt agree further  
compensation was due, so C referred  its complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. NatWest didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the matter was passed  to me.
my provisional decision  
I issued my provisional decision on 27 June 2018, explaining why I was intending  to uphold 
Cs complaint and what I considered to be fair compensation. 
C responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further points to make. 
NatWest responded  to my provisional decision with substantial  submissions  about  why it 
doesnt think the outcome proposed in my provisional decision is fair. Two of NatWests  
points are that (1) hedging  was a condition of the loan, and (2) if its to be required to put C 
in the position as if itd had a variable  rate loan without  the swap from 2002 to 2012,  then it 
might be necessary to consider what lending proposal it wouldve made  in 2002 without 
hedging. 
As the parties are aware, I subsequently wrote  further to them about these particular points. 
I explained that I wasnt minded to accept that hedging was a condition of borrowing. And I 
explained that I was minded to accept  that the interest rate margin NatWest  wouldve 
charged on the loan without  hedging wouldve likely  been greater  than the interest rate 
margin it charged C with hedging  and I explained why I was minded to assume that the 
interest rate margin on the loan without hedging  wouldve been 1.85%, if the outcome I 
proposed in my provisional decision otherwise remained the same. I also explained that I 
Ref: DRN21253032wasnt minded to conclude that it would be fair to assume the variable  rate loan in 2002, 
without hedging,  would  otherwise have differed.
Both parties  provided  further  submissions. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the responses I have received 
to and since my provisional decision.
Ive reached substantially the same conclusions as in my provisional decision,  and for 
materially the same reasons  subject to the qualifications set out in my subsequent emails  
with the parties.  That is, Ive decided that the complaint should be upheld,  and that fair 
compensation is the same as I set out in my provisional decision subject to an assumption 
that the interest rate margin for the loan without hedging wouldve been 1.85%. Ive 
explained my reasons  below.
C sought to claim a number of losses in its initial consequential loss claim to NatWest. 
However, its claim here is now limited  to compensation for the break cost it paid in 2012, and 
the difference between what it paid for the fixed rate loan from 2007 compared to if it had a 
variable rate loan.
NatWest made a technical  mistake when it sold the swap  to C in 2002  by incorrectly booking 
a fixed rate loan instead of a variable  rate loan. It tried to resolve this in 2003, but I 
understand this wasnt entirely successful and Cs borrowing  was later restructured to a fixed 
rate loan in 2007 to solve this.
C argues that the 2007 fixed  rate loan only ever existed  because of NatWests  error in 2002 
setting up the loan and the swap. It says that if the loan and the swap  had been correctly  set 
up in 2002, the swap wouldve run all the way through to 2012 (when it repaid its borrowing 
with NatWest). C says that if this had happened, the redress NatWest paid it under the FCA 
review would have  run through to 2012  (rather than ending in 2007). I understand and 
appreciate these points.
NatWest says that its original FCA review  redress proposal was for C to be put into the 
position as if it had taken out a fixed rate loan in 2002, rather  than the swap  not the full 
tear up redress it actually  ended  up paying  C. It says this proposal wasnt  put to C because 
it sent C a letter, in error, advising  that the swap would be cancelled. I understand that in 
light of this NatWest decided to amend the outcome  from a comparison with a fixed  rate loan 
to a full tear up. NatWest  has sent supporting evidence  on these points.
I accept that if C most likely wouldve taken out a fixed rate loan in 2002   if everything had 
happened correctly   then C most likely  wouldnt have lost out as a result of what  has 
happened, bearing in mind NatWest paid it full tear up redress  under  the FCA review.  
However, just because it appears  NatWest originally meant under the FCA review  to offer 
redress of a comparison with a fixed rate loan, this doesnt necessarily  mean that this would 
be fair. So irrespective  of the error  NatWest made in its review  or indeed the restructuring 
costs NatWest says it absorbed in 2007  when  C moved onto a fixed  rate loan  I still need  to 
decide, taking  all the evidence and arguments  into account, what I think C most  likely 
wouldve done in 2002 if everything had been  done  correctly.
Ref: DRN21253033was hedging a condition of borrowing?
Central to this is the question whether C wouldve been required to take out hedging to 
borrow in 2002.  
NatWest says hedging was a condition  of the loan  and that C couldnt therefore have 
had a variable  rate loan without hedging; so Cs options were essentially limited  to a fixed 
rate loan, or a variable  rate loan with hedging.  NatWest has sent and quoted from its 
internal records to support its position   based on which its said its clear  that the lending  
proposal was recommended and approved on the basis that hedging would be a 
condition, sanction  for hedging having been specifically sought by the RM, 
recommended by the Credit Manager and sanctioned by the Sanctioner. It has said 
that, in light of this, it cannot see how a finding  that there was not a hedging condition 
could safely be reached.
Ive thought carefully about everything NatWest has said and sent us about this. However, 
it appears that C was seeking a fixed rate. So I would expect the borrowing to have 
included and/or recommended either  a fixed rate loan or some  type of hedging to achieve 
this. And theres nothing  in the documentation  that NatWest has sent me, nor any other 
evidence Ive seen,  that persuades me C wouldve been  unable,  as a matter of NatWests  
or indeed  another lenders lending policy, to borrow  on a variable  rate basis without  
hedging. So while I accept hedging  was recommended  and indeed part of the terms of 
the borrowing  C took with NatWest in 2002  Im not satisfied from what  Ive seen  that C 
wouldve been unable  to achieve  its borrowing in 2002 without hedging.
It follows that I dont accept Cs options  were  limited to a fixed  rate loan, or a variable rate 
loan with hedging. 
the swap
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was in dispute that C wouldnt have 
taken out the swap  if everything had been done  correctly. But in its response to my 
provisional decision NatWest has said that it doesnt  accept this. It says the evidence 
clearly demonstrates that C would have taken out the swap  with a variable rate loan.  It 
says that the counterfactual scenario of placing C in the position as if itd taken out a 
fixed rate loan in 2002 only comes into play because of the FCA review conclusion  that 
the swap didnt  meet the sales standards agreed  with the FCA for the purposes of that 
review  in accordance, it says, with the FCA review methodology rather  than any legal 
test. NatWest has also said that when the swap was sold to C a member of its treasury 
function discussed the swap with C on the phone, C received a paper  outlining the key 
features of the swap, and C confirmed its understanding of a swap  product prior to 
trading.
Im not persuaded by what NatWest has said here. The key issue with the swap was the 
potential magnitude of break costs. NatWest has not provided any evidence that 
demonstrates that this point, in particular, was adequately  explained to C when  NatWest  
sold it the swap  or that C wouldve taken out the swap regardless. And irrespective of 
NatWests points about the FCA review, the review  concluded  despite apparently 
resulting, by operational error, in full tear up redress rather than a comparison  with a 
fixed rate loan  that the sale of the swap didnt meet  the sales  standards  agreed with the 
FCA for the purposes  of the review. NatWest and C agreed to settle basic  redress on the 
Ref: DRN21253034basis that C wouldnt have taken out the swap. So I dont think  it would be fair to decide 
now that C would have taken out the swap regardless.
fixed rate loan
Ive therefore  next considered the points around whether C wouldve taken a fixed  rate 
loan in 2002 instead  which,  it is worth saying, are points NatWest appears  (although  it 
has not explicitly said this) to have  made  in the alternative to its argument (above) that C 
wouldve taken out the swap.
C had an existing fixed rate loan that it cancelled in 2002 to refinance. I understand C 
incurred break costs of around £31,000  to cancel this (pre-existing) loan, and that these 
costs were embedded into the swap. There are bank notes which suggest C wanted to 
embed the breakage of the fixed rate loan into the swap. NatWest  says C was therefore  
aware that fixed rate loans could attract break costs if cancelled early  because it knowingly 
incurred one in relation  to its existing loan.
I accept that C likely knew it incurred  a break cost for early cancellation of the existing fixed  
rate loan in 2002. However, theres  a bank note from 10 July 2002 which  records  that, [C] 
wanted to fix [its] rate again but not via a fixed rate loan as it is extremely inflexible  ([Cs]  
words).
NatWest has said there  are many reasons  why a commercial fixed  rate loan could be 
described as inflexible,  other than break  costs  for example, it says, a commercial fixed rate 
loan prevents the customer from extending the amount borrowed, extending the term of the 
loan, or repaying  a portion  of the loan early, all of which, it says, are possible with a variable  
rate loan and swap. 
I accept its possible C mightve  thought  a fixed rate loan was extremely inflexible because  
of these points.  But I still think its most  likely that C wouldve still thought a fixed rate loan 
was extremely inflexible due to break costs.
Ive seen some bank notes in 2002 that record that C had been seeking, as an alternative,  a 
loan from a different  bank,  which NatWest was told wouldnt be including  an early  
redemption penalty.  The notes record that C had consequently, to aid its decision,  asked  
NatWest for a new  loan for £300K to be repaid over a 12 year period at a fixed  rate (TBA) 
with no necessity for further  valuations, no penalty for early repayments  and an arrangement 
fee of no more than £1500.
Taken with the note that records C didnt want a fixed rate loan because of its extreme 
inflexibility, Im not satisfied that C wouldve agreed  to the potential  magnitude  of break costs 
 if this had been adequately explained to C, and I have seen no evidence  that it was. Im 
aware that NatWest  disagrees that Cs requests for solutions without break fees are 
indicative of any confusion on Cs part regarding break costs. Its said that asking for a fixed  
rate with no breakage fee appears to have been  Cs starting point, as C raised this again 
later in 2004; and that a customer is free to request whatever it wishes,  but whether the bank  
is able to meet those  requests is another  matter. Its also said that the indicative terms that it 
gave C for the loan in 2002  did include an early redemption penalty. But Im not sufficiently  
convinced C was completely clear  about  these things at the time.  And bearing in mind there 
is a record from 2002 which  explicitly states C didnt want a fixed  rate loan (that Ive already 
mentioned), and taking  the wider circumstances  into account, Im just not sufficiently 
Ref: DRN21253035persuaded that it would  be fair and reasonable to decide now that C most likely wouldve 
taken out a fixed rate loan in 2002  if everything had happened as it shouldve.
There is also the point  that if NatWest  had correctly booked in the loan and swap  in 2002, 
the swap and the variable  rate loan most  likely wouldve run through to 2012. Ive not seen 
anything that persuades  me this wouldnt have  happened. And bearing  in mind NatWests  
position that C wouldve taken out a fixed rate loan in 2002  isnt sufficiently convincing, Im 
satisfied that the fairest  outcome is for NatWest to put C in the position it wouldve been in if 
it had taken out a variable  rate loan in 2002 which ran through to 2012.
NatWest argues that its entirely unfair to conclude C wouldve stayed on a variable rate 
when its aim from the outset was to achieve  a fixed rate, and that C made  no complaint in 
2007 when errors with booking the original loan were rectified by breaking the swap and 
entering a commercial fixed rate loan  and this is because C was happy  that its desired 
fixed rate was still achieved, with residual capital at the end of the facility. But Ive already 
explained why Im satisfied that, irrespective of Cs request for a fixed rate, the fairest 
outcome is to assume the variable  rate loan wouldve continued. And Ive not seen anything 
that persuades  me C wouldve been switched  to a fixed rate loan in 2007 if the booking error 
in 2002 hadnt already happened. So these points dont change my conclusion.
fair compensation
Where I uphold  a complaint I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider fair compensation exceeds  £150,000, I may recommend the financial business to 
pay the balance.  This recommendation wont be part of my determination  or award.  It wont 
bind the financial  business. Itd be unlikely  that C can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance.  C may want to consider  getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  my decision.
the specified steps
NatWest has already paid C, with interest, the payments it made  to the swap, and this was 
settled. But I have  found that C has also suffered a consequential loss  and that NatWest  
should put C in the position  it wouldve been  in, so far as is reasonably practicable, if the 
variable rate loan it took out in 2002  had continued beyond  2007  (without  hedging) until the 
loan was repaid  in 2012.
NatWest argues that without hedging a customer is a riskier lending  proposition   so if it is to 
be required  to pay the compensation I outlined in my provisional decision, it would need to 
consider how the lending  proposition couldve been  different  for example, the loan amount 
and term mightve been smaller, and the interest  rate margin mightve been greater. But 
NatWest has said it is hard to be definitive about  what the proposal, in those circumstances, 
wouldve been. 
Part A of the redress I set out in my provisional  decision  is for NatWest to pay C the 
difference between  what  it paid to the 2007  fixed rate loan and what it wouldve paid during 
this period if its variable  rate loan had instead continued. So I accept that if the variable  rate 
lending without the swap wouldve had different terms, then that it something the calculation  
should take into account, so far as is reasonably  practicable.
Ref: DRN21253036With regards to NatWests suggestion,  however, that it mightve lent less, and over a shorter 
term, I dont think it has shown  this wouldve been  the case. And even if it had, its not 
obvious or clear  how this might be taken into account within the calculation  in an intelligible  
way that produces  a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I accept, however, that the interest rate margin NatWest  wouldve charged on the variable 
rate loan most likely wouldve been higher without hedging, because the lending in this 
situation likely wouldve presented as a riskier option  because  without hedging C wouldve 
been subject to future interest rate variability. Im aware and accept  that C mightve, in these 
circumstances, searched  the market  place for other competitive offers; and C might  not have  
accepted the interest rate margin NatWest offered for a variable rate loan without hedging. 
Im also mindful that NatWest has said its unable to say with any certainty what  margin it 
wouldve offered  in these circumstances. Nevertheless,  Ive seen some bank internal 
account records that state New CFRLs to be charged at 7.11% (2% margin  included). This 
suggests that a margin  of 2% mightve  been  the starting point in the context of a commercial 
fixed rate loan. It appears a margin of 1.85% was then put to C in the context of the lending 
with a swap, and that this was ultimately  reduced  to 1.33% to achieve  an all in fixed rate of 
7% for C, which appears to have been a reaction to competitive pressure from another  
lender.
Im very mindful that it appears  that C did have other options  at the time. But Ive not seen 
any evidence a different  lender had offered C a variable rate loan without hedging on the 
same interest rate terms as C achieved with NatWest with hedging. So Im not sufficiently 
persuaded, if NatWest  hadnt offered such an attractive interest rate margin without hedging, 
that C wouldve  been able to achieve  the same  interest rate elsewhere without hedging.
I find, therefore, that its fair and reasonable to assume in the redress  calculations  that 
NatWest wouldve offered C an interest  rate margin  of 1.85% on a variable rate loan without 
hedging  and that this is what  C wouldve taken. I understand  that neither party may be fully 
content with this. But overall, I think this represents  the fairest conclusion on this point  
recognising on the one hand that the likely margin wouldve be greater without hedging,  
whilst recognising on the other hand that C wouldve  had some bargaining power, and likely 
wouldve achieved a competitive rate, in the context that NatWests  starting  point for a 
variable rate loan without  hedging wouldve likely been greater than its apparent starting 
point of 2% for a fixed  rate loan. 
NatWest should  therefore:
A.Pay C the difference between what it paid to the 2007 fixed  rate loan and what it 
wouldve paid during this period if its variable rate loan had instead continued. In 
calculating what C wouldve paid for the variable  loan NatWest should assume an 
interest rate margin of 1.85%, for the reasons Ive explained above.
B.Pay C the break cost it paid in 2012.
C.Pay C compensatory interest  of 8% simple  per year*  on any overpayments  (identified 
in part A) and the break cost (from part B) from the date they were  made/incurred to 
the date compensation is paid.
*If NatWest believes its legally required to deduct tax from this interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment. C may then be able to reclaim  any tax overpaid from 
HM Revenue & Customs, depending on the circumstances.
Ref: DRN21253037my final decision
determination and award: I uphold Cs complaint. I consider that fair compensation requires
National Westminster Bank Plc to carry out the steps specified above. I order it to do so  up 
to a maximum financial effect of £150,000 plus interest and/or costs.
recommendation: If the financial  effect  of the award  exceeds £150,000, I recommend 
National Westminster Bank Plc still carries out in full the steps  I specify.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2125303