K820x#14complaint
Mr I and Mrs P complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society misrepresented  a mortgage product 
which they applied  for. They ask that YBS deletes  the information they gave it, apologises 
and recognises  its unacceptable  practices.
background
In October  2018 Mr I called YBS to apply for a fixed rate mortgage  product  hed seen 
advertised. He spent  some time going  through the application and provided  information to 
YBS. He was then told the product was only available on a repayment basis. Mr I and Mrs P 
wanted an interest only mortgage.  So Mr I asked YBS to close the application and delete the 
information hed provided. YBS offered £55 for the cost of the phone  call, Mr Is time and his 
trouble and upset.  It said it was required  to retain  the information related to the application.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He didnt think that 
YBS had obtained  the information under  false pretences.  He said the advertisement didnt 
say the product was available on an interest  only basis. The adjudicator said YBS has to 
retain information related to lending applications.  So it cant delete the information. 
Mr I and Mrs P didnt  agree. Mr I said he cant accept that YBS is entitled to retain personal 
and sensitive financial information obtained by dishonest means.  He said YBSs conduct 
was neither reasonable nor responsible. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr I called YBS about re-mortgaging  after seeing  an advertisement for a fixed rate product.
Mr I and Mrs P didnt  proceed with the application  once they were told it wasnt offered on an 
interest only basis. But by that time Mr I had given YBS information  which  he says is 
personal and sensitive. YBS offered Mr I and Mrs P £55 compensation for their time and 
trouble. It says this is because theyd have avoided calling and starting an application if the 
advertisement had said the product was only available on a repayment basis. YBS also 
confirmed that it hadnt  made a credit search. 
At the heart  of this complaint though is whether YBS can retain the information Mr I gave  it 
during that call. 
YBS provided information about  its data retention policy. This includes retaining  information 
relating to an application that doesnt complete. YBSs  policy is intended to ensure it 
complies with relevant  regulations, including  regulations about mortgage lending  and money  
laundering. YBSs policy requires it to retain the information Mr I provided.
Mr I says YBS shouldnt be allowed to retain information obtained by deception. The 
advertisement he saw was for a fixed rate mortgage  product. The advertisement  gave  an 
example of the monthly payments and the overall  amount  payable,  based on an assumed 
Ref: DRN26410862loan amount and term, for a repayment  mortgage. The advertisement didnt say whether the 
product was or wasnt available  on an interest  only basis.  
YBS did make it clear  during the call with Mr I that the product wasnt available on an interest 
only basis. I appreciate that this was after Mr I provided information  to YBS. But I dont think  
its fair to say YBS misled  Mr I or obtained  the information by deception.
I appreciate that Mr I and Mrs P will be disappointed. But I dont think  I can reasonably  
require YBS to delete the information they gave  to it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2641086