K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about the way Lloyds Bank Plc has handled her bank  account.  
background
In 2014 Ms M started to have trouble  paying  her overdraft. A payment plan was put in place, 
which Ms M didnt meet. A number  of new payment plans  followed, which  also werent met. 
Ms Ms account was eventually closed in 2017 with the overdraft still outstanding. 
Management of this was passed to a third party  debt recovery  company. 
Lloyds subsequently undertook a review of its accounts and found that some of its overdraft  
fees shouldnt  have been applied to Ms Ms account. So it reduced Ms Ms outstanding  debt 
by £398.27 to account for these fees.  Lloyds then looked at things again and decided it 
should have refunded all Ms Ms overdraft fees for the period after 14 July 2014, which  was 
when Ms Ms first repayment plan was agreed. So it reduced Ms Ms outstanding debt by a 
further £253.97 (meaning fees totalling  £652.24  were refunded).  Lloyds added  £46.88  
interest to its compensation, paid directly to Ms M. It also put back the date Ms Ms bank 
account went into default to match the default  date it was going to record  for another  product  
Ms M had with Lloyds  (a credit card).  And Lloyds also paid Ms M an additional £300 in 
compensation because it says it could have dealt with Ms Ms situation  sooner than it did.
Ms M doesnt think Lloyds  has done enough. She wants Lloyds to write  off her debt 
completely (rather than just remove the charges that it applied). And she wants far more 
compensation because she says Lloyds  hasnt acted in a sympathetic manner and her 
health and professional life have been  damaged as a result.  Our investigator  didnt  agree.  
She said Lloyds had done enough to put things right for Ms M. 
Ms M asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
First of all, I sympathise with the position Ms M finds herself in. I realise it has been a 
distressing time for her, and Ive taken  this into consideration when Ive looked  into her case. 
Ive also taken into consideration  the fact that Lloyds has admitted  it could  have done  better  
in managing her account. Even  so, I wont be asking Lloyds  to take any further action.
Ms M wants Lloyds to write off her debt completely so that she can have a clean start and 
get on with her life. But Ms M has had the benefit of her overdraft,  so it wouldnt be fair for 
me to ask Lloyds to write  it off. What Lloyds has done, though,  is remove its contribution  to 
Ms Ms overdraft  which  is the overdraft charges it applied  to her account from the time of 
her first repayment plan.  And it has also added interest on that refund to compensate  Ms M 
for the fact that the overdraft fees meant she was, for a time,  unfairly  deprived  of funds that 
she could have used  for other purposes. All this means the outstanding debt on Ms Ms 
account is not now a direct  result of errors made  by Lloyds. With that in mind, Im satisfied 
with what Lloyds has done. 
I realise Ms M has recently received a letter from Lloyds saying it is refunding a further 
£79.88 in overdraft charges for the period between March 2015 and 2016. This follows  a 
Ref: DRN20349522review of some of its accounts.  This looks inconsistent given Lloyds had previously said it 
had already refunded all of Ms Ms overdraft charges for the period since July 2014. Ive 
checked with Lloyds and it says it would  have refunded the £79.88 without  checking  if it had 
been refunded  before. So it says it must have duplicated the refund for Ms M. This looks like 
a reasonable explanation because I can see from the records Lloyds has provided that all 
Ms Ms overdraft charges are accounted  for in the £652.24 Lloyds had previously  refunded. 
So it looks  like some of Ms M fees have  been  refunded twice, which is clearly to her benefit.
Ms M also wants  the record of her default to be removed.  But the default is an accurate 
reflection of what happened  so I wont be asking Lloyds to remove it from Ms Ms credit file. 
Lloyds has, however, pushed back the date that Ms Ms account went  into default to 
June 2015. This is to mirror the default  date on Ms Ms Lloyds credit  card and means  the 
default will now fall off her credit record sooner than it previously would have done. Taking 
this, and Ms Ms account  activity, into consideration Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly in 
this respect. 
Lloyds says it should have back dated the default on Ms Ms account  and refunded all her 
fees sooner (and, clearly,  it thinks it shouldnt have  applied these fees in the first place).  
Lloyds has already paid Ms M £300  compensation for not acting sooner. Ms M doesnt think 
this is enough.  But my view is that £300  is already a relatively large figure.  So in order to 
increase it, I would need to see compelling  evidence that any mistakes on the part of Lloyds 
had a particularly  serious impact  on Ms M. In particular,  I would  need  to see that Lloyds 
caused Ms M financial hardship that she otherwise wouldnt  have  had. I havent  seen  any 
persuasive evidence  along these lines. Thats not to downplay Ms Ms plight. Im very 
mindful of her situation and what she has been  through. Its just that Im not persuaded all 
this can be attributed  to Lloyds and the way it managed her account. In the circumstances, I 
think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ms M says she was in financial  difficulty from April 2013, so she thinks  the default  should be 
put back further, and more charges  should  be refunded, to account for this. The evidence  
Ms M has provided  for this is the fact that she applied  for a loan at this time. In itself,  
applying for a loan,  and using credit, doesnt  necessarily mean a person is in serious 
financial difficulties. And her statements show her account was in credit for much  of the 
period around  April 2013 anyway. So Im not persuaded that April 2013 is the obvious tipping 
point Ms M says it is. In hindsight, it may well be that this is the point that Ms Ms financial 
situation became  difficult. But I dont think Lloyds would have known this (or should 
reasonably have known this) based on the information it had at the time.
Ms M says she didnt understand why Lloyds mentioned a 2009 Supreme Court ruling when 
it wrote  to her in response  to her complaint. She says she had never been involved in any 
court action and therefore needed  an explanation for why Lloyds had brought this up, and 
extra compensation for the confusion it caused her. She has also said the overall  
communication from Lloyds has been unclear and she wants compensation for this as well. 
Our investigator explained the Supreme Court ruling in her assessment. I have nothing 
further to add to that. But in terms of extra compensation, I dont think  any is warranted. 
Lloyds was providing context for its approach to Ms Ms complaint when it referred to the 
Supreme Court ruling, which I think is a good thing.  And Ive not seen anything  in its 
explanation that would,  reasonably, have caused  anyone any alarm.  As for its overall 
communications, I havent seen anything that strikes  me as being  so poor that further 
compensation is warranted. 
Ref: DRN20349523Finally, I recognise Ms M has complained  about  a wide range  of things. Id like to reassure 
her that Ive considered everything  she has said in relation to this particular complaint. But, 
for the reasons given above, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything else.  Im sorry to 
disappoint her in this way.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2034952