K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund a number of transactions made 
out of her account  that she says she didnt  make.
background
I sent Miss K and Barclays a provisional  decision  on 20 July 2021 to explain why I felt the 
offer Barclays had made to settle the complaint was fair. An extract  from my provisional 
decision is set out below:
Miss K has sent us a considerable amount of detailed  information and evidence about her 
relationship with her ex-partner, how it started  and developed, his controlling behaviour and 
the violent abuse she suffered. I have great sympathy for the circumstances she found 
herself in and nothing in my decision should be taken as meaning I doubt her version of 
events about the abuse  she suffered. But, based  on the other  evidence  I have, I dont 
currently think Miss Ks knowledge of and access to the account can have been  as she 
described.
Generally, Barclays can hold Miss K liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not that she made  them herself or authorised  someone  else to 
make them.
Barclays has sent us technical evidence showing the gambling transactions were  carried  out 
online using  the details from two different debit cards attached to Miss Ks account. And, 
from this, Im satisfied Miss Ks cards were  used to make the transactions.
But the relevant  regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays  to hold 
Miss K liable. So I also need to think about  whether the evidence  suggests its more likely 
than not that Miss K authorised the transactions being made with her card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case.  But 
where the evidence  available  is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened, based on the evidence  I do have.
Barclays has sent us evidence from some of the gambling companies, which shows  the 
gambling accounts were  set up with Miss Ks correct name, address, date of birth and 
mobile phone number. One of the accounts was also set up using a photo of Miss Ks driving  
license. And the evidence  from the gambling  companies also shows  some of the 
transactions were  made using the same IP address used  to log-in to Miss Ks mobile 
banking. But if Miss Ks ex-partner was exercising the level of control over her she suggests, 
I think it would have  been possible for him to have  provided these details, and been logging  
into her online banking  himself, without Miss K necessarily being  aware  of the transactions  
or authorising them.
However, the statements for Miss Ks account show that, as the gambling  transactions  
increase significantly  in 2017, a number of credits  are also received into the account from a 
third party. These credits help offset  the gambling  transactions coming out of the account  
and increase significantly as the gambling  transactions increase significantly towards the 
end of 2017 and the start of 2018.
Ref: DRN29686522Miss K says these credits were from her grandmother, who would send her money to help 
cover her bills. But if Miss K didnt  have access to either online or paper statements for the 
account and didnt know about the activity on the account, as she says,  I cant see how she 
would know how much money her grandmother would need to send her to cover her bills or 
why the amounts her grandmother sent would increase so significantly as the gambling  
transactions also increased. So I think these credits from her grandmother  suggest  Miss K 
was at least aware of the balance of the account.
There are also a number  of transactions made using the card during 2017 and 2018  to 
beauty salons  and retailers selling womens clothes. I think its likely these transactions  were 
done by Miss K, rather  than her ex-partner, and so they appear  to contradict what  Miss K 
has said about not being allowed to use the card.
There are a number of payments on Miss Ks account, both to and from what appears to be 
another member  of her family. And Miss Ks salary  is usually immediately transferred out of 
her account  to a savings  account in her name.  These arent  the sort of transactions  Id 
expect to see on an account being  controlled  by someone else.
And one of the gambling companies has sent evidence that the account  holder asked to be 
self-excluded, to prevent them carrying out any further gambling with that company.  And this 
isnt the sort of thing Id expect to see if the account  holder was gambling using someone 
elses account and money.
So, based  on this evidence, I dont think Miss Ks knowledge of and access to the account 
was as shes described. I think its likely she was at least aware of the balance of the 
account and the amount of gambling  transactions being made from it. And as I think she was 
aware of the gambling transactions, and Ive not been given another plausible  explanation, I 
think its more likely  than not that Miss K authorised the gambling transactions on her 
account.
I therefore think Barclays has acted  reasonably  in holding Miss K liable for the gambling 
transactions, and I dont  think  it needs to refund them to her.
Given the number  and value of gambling  transactions on Miss Ks account  during 2017 and 
2018, Ive also considered  whether Barclays should  have  done more to identify  if there was 
a problem with compulsive spending  or gambling  and what  difference this could have made.
While there  were a large number of gambling transactions  on the account,  there  dont 
appear to have been any other signs of financial difficulty  during that time. The balance of 
the account didnt go significantly overdrawn or stay overdrawn for a significant period of 
time. And there were no failed direct  debits, standing orders  or other  everyday bills out of the 
account. So I think its reasonable  Barclays didnt  identify  that there could be a problem with 
compulsive spending  or gambling on the account  and that it didnt offer any specialised 
gambling support.
I do think the number  of transactions on the account in a short  space of time on certain days, 
and the number of transfers  in and out to multiple  other accounts,  was unusual enough that 
Barclays should have  at least contacted Miss K to check she was aware of the transactions.  
And I cant see that Barclays ever did this. But, as I explained above, I think  its likely Miss K 
was aware of the transactions  and did authorise  them. So even if Barclays  had got in touch 
with her, I dont think this would have made any difference to Miss Ks situation  as I think she 
would have said she was aware of the transactions. So I dont think  it would be reasonable 
Ref: DRN29686523to require Barclays to refund  any of the transactions as a result of its failure  to contact her 
here.
Barclays has accepted  that Miss K was given  incorrect information about  the likely  
timescales for disputing  transactions on her account and about her account  being closed. I 
think this incorrect information,  and Barclays failure to contact her about  the unusual  
transactions on her account, will have  caused  Miss K distress  and inconvenience. But, 
taking into account  everything thats  happened and the effect  of these failings  on Miss K, I 
think the £300 Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable  compensation for this. I think this 
amount appropriately compensates  Miss K for the distress and inconvenience these failings 
caused her and is in line with the range of awards  our service makes  for this kind of distress 
and inconvenience.
I appreciate how Miss K feels about this case, and I recognise that this decision is likely to 
come as a disappointment  to her. But, overall,  I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to refund the gambling transactions or pay a higher amount  of 
compensation.
I said Id consider anything further Miss K and Barclays  sent in following the provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays didnt send  anything further  to be considered. Miss K replied saying she didnt 
agree with the provisional decision and that the fact she had reported the whole situation  to 
the police  had been missed.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I have a great  sympathy for the circumstances Miss K 
found herself in. Shes sent us a considerable amount of detailed information  and evidence 
about her relationship with her ex-partner, his controlling behaviour  and the violent abuse 
she suffered. And nothing  in my decision should be taken  as meaning I doubt her version  of 
events about the abuse  she suffered.
Miss K has previously told us she reported the situation to the police. But the police told us 
no suspect was being charged  due to insufficient evidence. And in any event, I can only look 
at the actions of Barclays, and whether  I think it acted reasonably in holding  Miss K liable for 
the gambling transactions.
I set out in my provisional decision why I felt Barclays had acted reasonably.  And I still feel 
the conclusions  I set out in my provisional  decision are correct. So while I again  recognise 
that this decision  will come as a disappointment to Miss K, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require  Barclays to refund the gambling transactions or pay a higher amount 
of compensation.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  made an offer to pay £300 to settle  the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN29686524So my decision is that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should pay Miss K £300, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2021.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2968652