K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Finance  Ltd (Advantage) sold the wrong model of his car 
through a hire purchase agreement and that this has ultimately led to the car being 
repossessed.
background
Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement in December 2016. The sales invoice  shows  
the model of the car that hed intended to buy (Model 1). In 2017 Mr R found that the 
logbook stated the car as an alternative  model (Model 2). 
Mr R thinks that because  the sales invoice and logbook dont match, he was mis-sold the 
car. So he wanted to cancel  the agreement and return  the car.  
Advantage said that Mr R didnt raise any concerns about the car being incorrect until 
August 2017.  But it contacted the manufacturer of the car which  told it that the car was a 
Model 1. Advantage said, rather than the car being incorrect, the details held by the DVLA 
and in the logbook were  incorrect.  Because  of this, it offered to pay towards the cost of 
changing the registered details. 
Whilst the complaint  was ongoing, Mr R stopped making repayments. He said he was told 
that he could decide whether or not to continue  with the repayments  on the car. But 
Advantage said Mr R had asked for the account to be put on hold but that it had asked for 
more information  before agreeing to this. 
Advantage said that after further unsuccessful requests for Mr R to provide the information, 
and because of the arrears  that had accrued  which  were  around £2,724 as of 1 December 
2017 - an amount equivalent to more  than seven payments - it told Mr R it would be 
repossessing the car. 
In relation to the repossession, Mr R was aware that hes required to pay the difference  
between the amount the car sells for and the amount owing on the agreement. He was told 
previously this might be around  £15,000 which he says he cant  afford  to pay. Advantage 
said it was happy  to consider an offer of repayment  on the outstanding balance which is 
affordable and sustainable.  
Advantage said that while the car would be repossessed, it wouldnt be sold until the 
complaint with us has been resolved. But since  the complaint was brought  to us, the car has 
been sold. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He was satisfied that the car Mr R was sold was 
a Model 1. He also didnt  think that the circumstances surrounding the model  of the car led 
to its repossession. Mr R disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me. 
provisional decision 
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018.  I said:
Having considered  all the information  that both parties have provided, Im minded to say 
that Advantage should proceed along  the lines of the settlement offer it made to Mr R in 
February 2018. And Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN25715532was the car mis-sold?
Ive thought carefully about whether the car was mis-sold to Mr R. Mr R has shown us 
pictures of the car and Advantage and our investigator have contacted the manufacturer  
about the model of the car, giving it the registration number and vehicle identification  
number. As a result, it seems clear  to me that Mr R was sold a Model 1 car, as stated on the 
advertisement and invoice, which hed intended  to buy.  Having weighed  up all of the 
evidence available  carefully, I dont think the car was mis-sold. 
I can see from the screen shot Mr R provided and our investigation that the car is registered 
as a Model 2. I can appreciate that this has caused unnecessary  confusion, and this was 
made worse by conversations with Advantage in which it initially seemed adamant that the 
car was a Model  2 and that this was what Mr R had known he was purchasing. But, based  
on the evidence  available, namely the confirmation of the manufacturer, Advantage 
ultimately deemed the car to be the originally intended purchase of the Model 1 car.  
Because of incorrect documentation, Advantage offered to contribute towards the cost of 
updating the records with the DVLA. In my view this may have been a reasonable resolution  
at the time, but things have moved  on so I dont  think its relevant now. 
As the documentation  doesnt match up with the car, Mr R thinks the contract  is void. But 
although a mistake may have been made on the model  of the car, the key identifiers for the 
car, such as the registration and VIN are correct on the agreement. And in the end, I think  
Mr R got the car hed intended to buy. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to treat 
the contract  as void. I also note it appears that Mr R thinks something untoward has gone on 
here, by way of potential  tampering of the car. But, having considered  all of the evidence,  I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence to support this and Im satisfied instead that a simple 
mistake has been made.
Mr R also mentioned that hed tried to sell the car and hadnt been  able to because of the 
incorrect details. He mentioned that hed had differing information about  whether he was or 
wasnt allowed to sell it. But ultimately  he didnt  own the car as he hadnt paid for it in full. So 
while he wouldve been  able to sell it with permission from Advantage, there was a 
significant amount  still due to pay on the car. 
So, even if hed managed to sell the car, this would most likely have left him with a shortfall 
between the amount he sold the car for and the amount he owed  to Advantage  similar to 
what Advantage says he owes now. So, although  there was unnecessary  confusion  as a 
result of the wrong  information about  the model of the car having  been registered, I dont 
think selling  the car himself wouldve really have left him in a much  better  position  than the 
one he faces now.
the repossession
Advantage has queried why Im considering the repossession of the car as it wasnt 
specifically the complaint  that was brought to us. But, Mr R has complained  about  the 
repossession, which  he thinks is a result of his complaint about the misrepresentation. And 
he isnt happy  that the car was repossessed  when  he was told payments were placed  on 
hold. So I think the repossession  and the actions leading up to it, including  how Advantage 
responded to Mr R as a customer in financial difficulties  and sustained  arrears, are relevant  
considerations. 
Ref: DRN25715533In any event, this service has an inquisitorial  remit  so that I can decide what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome, taking into account  all of the relevant circumstances of this complaint. 
Theres a large amount  of information  available  on this complaint that relates in some way to 
the repossession, including a large number of phone calls. So I wont be addressing 
everything that happened but Ive taken  all of this into account when reaching my provisional 
decision. 
Advantage offered to reduce the amount  Mr R owes to £8,848.14 if its repaid in full or to 
agree a suitable repayment plan for the full outstanding balance  (in excess of £15,000).
 
Having considered how Advantage dealt with the financial difficulties/repossession,  I think  
Advantage needs to do something  more  to put things right.  Im minded to direct  that 
Advantage settle the complaint by reducing the arrears i.e. reducing the outstanding balance 
to £8,848.14. This is for the reasoning Ive set out below.  
Its clear theres been a breakdown in the relationship between Mr R and Advantage. And its 
for this reason  that Advantage  said it didnt  have the opportunity to explore options  other  
than repossession with Mr R. But I dont think this is the case.  In my opinion,  while  I can see 
that Advantage had some  difficulty reaching  Mr R on a number of occasions,  having listened 
to numerous calls, when the parties  did speak, conversations relating to payments (and not 
conversations surrounding  the model of the car) were amicable. 
I think it was clear very early  on that Mr R was struggling financially. Shortly after the 
agreement was taken  out, his personal circumstances changed quite dramatically  and that 
impacted his ability to meet the monthly  repayments. Ive heard from the calls that Ive 
listened to that Advantage asked  for proof of Mr Rs financial difficulty, which  he wasnt  able 
to provide. And Ive also heard Mr R agreeing  to make payments by certain dates which 
ultimately werent paid.  Advantage  does  appear  to have  tried to give Mr R space to sort his 
circumstances out and pay what he would when he could, and at the same  time allowed him 
to continue to drive the car. So I agree that initially  it tried to accommodate  Mr Rs change in 
circumstances. 
Ultimately, I think  its fair to say that given Mr Rs financial circumstances and lack of 
payments, he would always have had to give the car up one way or another.  Advantage 
allowed a significant  amount of time to pass before  issuing a default notice and then 
repossessing and selling the car.  But I do think Advantage couldve done more  to be fairer  
to Mr R. 
I say this because  there  were other  options available  to Mr R other  than repossession of the 
car - such as voluntary termination, that wouldve left Mr R with a lower amount owing. In 
July when Mr R had already fallen behind  with payments, he made Advantage aware during 
a phone call that he was considering selling the car. There was a discussion around  this, as 
well as conversation  around Mr R not being able to make  a payment that day. So at this 
point, it was clear Mr R was struggling financially and it was also clear he didnt necessarily 
need the car. 
I think, in the particular  circumstances  here,  Advantage  couldve explored  these  other 
options with Mr R at this point  to further  assist  him as a consumer in arrears. Or, at some  
other time before repossession, voluntary termination couldve been suggested. This 
wouldve allowed Mr R to limit his liability to half the total amount payable  under the credit  
agreement. 
Ref: DRN25715534Advantage said it has no obligation  to suggest a voluntary  termination  to a customer. But it 
does have an obligation to treat a consumer in arrears fairly, with forbearance  and due 
consideration. In the particular circumstances of this case,  I think it would have been fair to 
disclose and explore this option with Mr R. By voluntarily  terminating the agreement,  Mr R 
would owe substantially less than the statement of account  balance as at 22 February 2018 
of £15,641.36. And given in July 2017,  Mr R was discussing  selling  the car, had he been 
made fully aware  of his options and how he could have  potentially  limited his liability, on 
balance, I think he wouldve agreed  to this. 
So Im minded to recommend that Advantage treat the arrears as though  the agreement had 
been voluntarily  terminated.  
Given Mr R has paid around £1,646 towards the agreement;  the arrears  should be limited  to 
the amount offered in the early settlement - £8,848.14. Mr R needs to engage  with 
Advantage about an affordable repayment  plan and I remind Advantage of its obligations to 
treat Mr R as a person in arrears fairly  and with forbearance. 
For completeness, while  investigating this complaint,  I also explored the affordability of the 
car for Mr R from the outset. To do this fully, I asked Mr R to provide a copy  of his credit file 
and the means  to allow me to find out more about  the bank accounts  he held at the time. But 
he hasnt provided  me with this information in what I would  consider to be a reasonable 
amount of time. So I currently  havent seen sufficient  information to say that affordability  was 
an issue at the time of sale.
responses
In my provisional decision,  I gave both parties an opportunity to reply before I reached a final 
decision. Advantage replied with further information  and questions. 
It questioned  why I think Mr R is in financial hardship as it hasnt seen  any evidence 
of a financial change  in his circumstances since he took out the loan. It said that Mr R 
had told it he was putting his payments on hold, not that he couldnt  afford  to pay. 
It pointed out Mr Rs take-home pay is/was in excess of £2,200 per month. It also 
noted that, at the time of application,  his outstanding debt totalled £2,266. But 
Advantage also said that if Mr R is able to prove  he cant afford to repay the 
instalments, it will work with him to make an arrangement  to meet  his circumstances.
It referenced the Notice of Default which it says was issued on 22 September  2017 
and the three options this offered. It said that Mr R didnt take up any of the offers  but 
continued to withhold  payment. And it said that the option to voluntarily  terminate the 
agreement wouldnt have  been  the best option  for Mr R. It said this wouldve resulted 
in him paying  £9,115.56 and not being able to keep the car, whereas for just under 
£2,000 more, he wouldve been able to keep the car which  he could then use or sell. 
Mr R didnt provide any further information for consideration. 
Ref: DRN25715535my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Advantage  has said  that Mr R hasnt actually provided evidence  of financial 
hardship, nor does it appear  that hes actually said he was in difficulty.  Advantage said that 
there are many reasons why consumers  fail to make payments and its not always a sign of 
financial problems. I acknowledge this point and I also note that Mr R wasnt  forthcoming  
with information  or evidence  about  why he wasnt making his payments, other than saying 
he couldnt. 
I find it unlikely that someone who was able to pay wouldve allowed the situation to escalate  
as it did, ultimately resulting in him owing a substantial amount of money without the asset  to 
show for it. And I note that his credit  file shows several defaults  prior to this agreement. But, 
Im willing to proceed on the basis that theres a chance he wasnt  in financial difficulty. And I 
say this because  it doesnt make  a difference to the outcome in this case. Whether he was in 
financial difficulty or not, given that he made  very few payments towards the car, I think  its 
sufficiently clear that there was a problem of some kind. CONC  1.3.1  notes that 
consecutively failing to meet repayments  when  due may be an indication  of financial 
difficulty. And CONC 7.3 says that a firm should  treat customers in arrears fairly, with 
forbearance and due consideration. So, regardless of why Mr R was in arrears,  Advantage 
was required to treat him fairly. 
Because of this, I think Advantage  shouldve been  more forthcoming with the options 
available to him during the telephone conversations that took place, especially while the 
relationship was amicable. Advantage has referenced the three  options  that were  available 
to Mr R. It said that the better financial option for him wouldve involved paying  around 
£11,000 which wouldve  allowed him to keep the car. This is instead of the option  of 
voluntary termination  which, although  less costly, meant that he would lose the car. 
It appears that Advantage wrote  to Mr R with these options on 22 September  2017 but had 
Mr R understood his options fully, which couldve been achieved  through  oral discussions, 
I dont think he wouldve chosen the route he did (as a result  of not responding).  The 
cheapest option  available to Mr R at that time was to pay £1,486.84. But if he wasnt  able to 
pay that, its understandable why he wouldnt have chosen any of the available options  
which cost substantially more. 
Mr R made  it clear  during  telephone conversations that he didnt need the car any more.  
Hed discussed selling it and mentioned that he wasnt the one using  it anyway. So, given all 
of this, I dont think he wouldve opted to pay an additional ~£2,000 to be able to keep the 
car. So I remain of the opinion  that, all things considered, he wouldve chosen voluntary 
termination. Id point out here that voluntary  termination is something available  to any 
consumer, not just to those in arrears. And its also worth mentioning here that, even  if I 
thought Mr R wouldve  wanted to pay the extra and keep  the car, the car has now been  sold 
at auction so recovering it isnt a viable  option (wed been notified that the car wouldnt  be 
sold until this complaint had been  resolved, but it was). The sequence of events has led to 
Mr R owing around £15,000  the least favourable  result of his options. So, all things 
considered, and for the reasons Ive already given, I think  Mr R wouldve voluntarily 
terminated.    
Ref: DRN25715536Advantage had previously  offered  to limit the amount due to £8,848.14. So Im asking  it to 
reinstate this offer which is broadly the same  as if a voluntary  termination  had gone ahead. 
The only difference is that I ask it to reach out to Mr R to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with him. And this will require co-operation from both parties. By this I mean that reasonable 
attempts must be made by both parties  to communicate openly and fairly and within 
reasonable time frames. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Advantage Finance Ltd. To 
put things right, it should limit the amount due on the account to £8,848.14.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2571553