K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans that Quick  Quid  provided to Miss M from June 
2011 onwards.  Miss Ms last loan was provided in April 2012.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ms complaint and thought  that she shouldnt have been 
provided with any of her loans. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Miss M 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN20638032This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG)  defines in 
a sustainable  manner as being  without undue difficulties and in particular without incurring or 
increasing problem  indebtedness,  over the life of the credit  agreement and out of income 
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans one to three would most likely 
have shown that:
Miss M was in an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA). In these circumstances, 
there was a significant risk that Miss M wouldnt have been able to repay these loans 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss M, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss M was unlikely to have  been  able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan four. I say 
this because:
By this stage, Miss M had owed Quick  Quid money for a pretty much  unbroken  
period of approaching 8 months.  And she was borrowing four times the amount she 
was first lent. In my view, Miss M owing Quick Quid money for this period of time was 
in itself a clear demonstration of Miss Ms inability to settle her loans  over the life of 
the credit  agreement.   
loan five was for as similar amount and it was provided days  after loan four was 
settled. Miss M was paying large amounts of interest for a period to, in effect, service 
an debt to Quick  Quid  over an extended  period.  And this was during a time where 
she was already in an IVA.
I think that Miss M lost out because Quick  Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss Ms ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on her loans;
Ref: DRN20638033pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss M owed Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans five is adverse. So all entries  about  loans  five should be 
removed from Miss Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ms complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2063803