K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained that she was mis-sold a number of insurances  by Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
background
Ms H applied for a mortgage with Halifax in 2006.  She borrowed £54,500 over 30 years and 
her initial mortgage  repayment was £304.37.
At the same time Ms H was sold some insurance  policies  by Halifax.  She was sold a life and 
critical illness cover (CIC) policy that paid out £54,500 if she was diagnosed with certain 
illness or passed away. This was a level term assurance (LTA) policy  that paid out a set 
amount during the period of cover.
Ms H was also sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  that covered her against 
accident, sickness and unemployment for up to twelve months in any one claim.  
Ms H complained that the policies had been mis-sold and brought  her complaint to this 
service. I issued  a provisional decision on Mrs Hs complaint, a copy of which is attached  
and forms part of this final decision.
I explained that I upheld Ms Hs complaint  in part and invited both parties to let me have 
anything further  theyd like me to think about  before I issued  a final decision.
Halifax responded to say it had nothing further  to add to my provisional conclusions.
Ms H responded to say she didnt agree with what Id said. She said it wasnt explained to 
her verbally at the time she took out the insurances  that they were optional. And she said 
shed had alternate policies in place in 2006, as this was a requirement of the housing 
association when she moved in. Ms H explained  that the policy changed providers over the 
years, so the 2011 policy I referred to was a different insurance  to the one in place in 2006. 
Ms H also disagreed that she could have afforded the policies at the time, saying she was 
financially stretched  and only just qualified for the mortgage. 
Following what Ms H said, I asked Halifax to provide any statements it had for her account in 
2006, to give me a better understanding of her financial circumstances. But it wasnt  able to 
provide anything detailed apart from how her account balance went  up and down over time.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs complaint.
Having done so, I havent departed from my provisional findings.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I couldnt  say for certain what Ms H had been told 
about the policy, but based on the information available  I thought it was more  likely than not 
Ref: DRN20579512that the insurance has been presented as optional. Although  Ms H has said she doesnt 
remember being told verbally that they were optional, I also have to take into account  that 
the sale took place several  years ago and I wouldnt expect  her to remember precisely what  
was and wasnt discussed. And for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, I 
still think the policy was presented as optional.
Ive looked at the account records Halifax has sent in and it shows  the amount of 
transactions on her account, so it can be seen how her balance goes up and down over 
time. But these records  dont show where these payments went, just the amounts. I can see 
some payments for the same amount as Ms Hs mortgage payments, so its possible to 
identify some of them.  But its not possible to say which,  if any, were  for an alternate 
insurance policy.
I have thought carefully about what Ms H has said about having a separate  insurance policy 
in place in 2006 that covered  many of the same things that the insurances Halifax  sold 
covered. Its possible that Ms H had such cover in place  and shes  been consistent  in saying 
that. But I dont  have enough evidence  to say that its more likely than not that she had 
cover, for example  the name  of the insurer so we could  try to trace  her policy.
Ive also thought about what  Ms H said about the insurances being too expensive for her. At 
the time she took out the insurances her current account was in credit,  but I can see she fell 
into her overdraft shortly after. But in the most  part I can see that the money coming into her 
account was broadly  similar to the money  going  out. So I think Ms H was coping and the 
extra cost of insurance was something that she could afford.
So although  Ive thought  carefully about  what Ms H has said, Im not going to change my 
provisional conclusions.
what Halifax needs to do put things right
Halifax must pay to Ms H the different in cost between what  she paid for her LTA policy (for 
life and CIC cover)  and what she would have paid for an equivalent DTA policy  set over the 
same term.  I think this would put her in the position,  so far as is possible,  that shed be in 
now if shed been  appropriately advised.
To work out how much  compensation is payable, Halifax should work out the premium Ms H 
would have needed to pay for a decreasing policy with cover of £54,500 over a 30 year term.  
This should be based on her age and health in 2006 and the premium  rates  applicable at the 
time. I currently  think it should then pay compensation of A + B, where:
A = the cost of each overpayment,  calculated as the difference  between  the premium 
Ms H paid and the premium for a decreasing  policy providing  cover of £54,500, while 
the policy was in force; and
B = simple interest  at 8% per year on each overpayment from the date it was paid to 
the date compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint  against  Bank  of Scotland plc in 
part.
Ref: DRN20579513I dont uphold her complaint that PPI was mis-sold  to her and I dont direct Bank of Scotland  
plc to do anything  further in respect  of the PPI policy.
I do direct  Bank of Scotland plc work  out and pay compensation as detailed  above in respect 
of the life and critical illness cover.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20579514provisional decision
complaint
Ms H has complained that she was mis-sold  a number  of insurances by Bank of Scotland  plc, trading  
as Halifax.
background
Ms H applied for a mortgage  with Halifax  in 2006. She borrowed £54,500 over 30 years and her initial 
mortgage repayment was £304.37.
At the same time Ms H was sold some  insurance  policies  by Halifax. She was sold a life and critical 
illness cover  (CIC)  policy that paid out £54,500 if she was diagnosed with certain illness  or passed 
away. This was a level term assurance (LTA) policy  that paid out a set amount  during the period of 
cover.
Ms H was also sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that covered  her against  accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to twelve months in any one claim. It paid out a benefit of £404.81, 
which was 133% of her mortgage repayment.
The total cost of all of the insurance policies was £45.12 a month.  Ms H had the policies in place until 
they were cancelled  in 2009.
Ms H said that the insurances  had been added without her agreement. She says she didnt need it as 
she had her own, separate policies  that did essentially the same  thing. 
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought it should be upheld  in part. They  didnt think  the 
PPI had been  mis-sold and thought Ms H had a need  for the life and CIC insurance. But they didnt 
think the life and CIC policies should have been set up as a LTA policy. Instead they thought a 
decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy  should  have  been set up, that paid out an amount that 
decreased over time as the mortgage was repaid. They recommended Halifax  pay the difference  
between the cost of the two policies with interest.
Halifax agreed with out adjudicators view,  but Ms H disagreed, so the complaint  has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Hs complaint.
Ive come to the same provisional  conclusions as our adjudicator.
did Ms H have a fair choice to take out the insurances?
Halifax has said that Ms H took out the insurances  at the same time that she applied  for her mortgage 
in a branch.  There isnt a recording of what was said or discussed, so its not entirely  clear  what  Ms H 
was told about the insurances at the time. Ive listened to what both Ms H and Halifax have said 
happened, as well as looked at all of the documents available from the time, to decide  what  I think is 
most likely to have happened.
I havent seen a copy  of the form Ms H would have filled in to apply for the mortgage  or insurance. But 
I have seen the key facts document that was prepared at the time.  This set out some of the 
Ref: DRN20579515information about the mortgage  before  Ms H decided  to take it. On that document there is a section 
dealing with insurances. It says that there was no requirement to take out any insurance through 
Halifax, but there was section titled Optional insurance that included the insurances that Ms H 
actually took out and that Im considering in this decision.  
Ive also seen  two letters that were sent out to Ms H  one dated in March 2006, after Ms H applied 
for the mortgage, and one in June 2006, once the mortgage had started. Both of these letters  set out 
information about the insurances.  They  asked  Ms H to check the answers  given to questions  she had 
been asked to work out if the insurances were suitable for her  I cant see that Ms H questioned 
either of these letters at the time, which I would have expected her to do if she hadnt agreed to take 
them out.
On balance I think the insurances were discussed and presented as optional products. I say this 
because the insurances were described  as optional in the key facts documents and it appeared  she 
had discussed her circumstances  before being advised to take them out. So I think  Ms H chose to 
take them  out. I know  this doesnt fit with what Ms H has said but Im not surprised  if her recollections 
arent clear as she took out the insurances several years ago and memories naturally  fade with time.
was the PPI policy suitable for Ms H?
Halifax has said that it advised  Ms H to take out PPI, so it had to make sure the policy was suitable  for 
her needs. I think that the recommendation  was suitable for the following  reasons:
Ms H was eligible for the PPI and doesnt seem to be affected by any of the exclusions in the 
policy. 
Ms H had around three months of sick pay from her employer. But the policy  could have paid 
out for longer and I think this could have been a benefit when her sick pay reduced or ended.
Ms H says she had other, similar  cover in place. But the information Ms H has given us shows 
that the cover she had was set up to start in 2011. This was several years after the PPI had 
been set up two years after it was cancelled.  And I havent seen anything  to show she had 
any alternate insurance in place in 2006.
I cant see that Ms H had any other ways she could have met the repayments, so I think PPI 
gave her valuable protection.  
It appears that Ms H could afford the policy at the time and I havent seen anything showing 
that she had a need  to keep her costs down.
were the life and CIC policies suitable for Ms H?
As I said above, I dont think Ms H had any existing  cover  in place that would have paid out a lump  
sum to pay off her mortgage if she passed away or suffered from a serious  illness  I think she 
arranged other cover  in 2011, but the insurance Halifax  sold ended in 2009.  I understand Ms H had 
dependents at the time of the sale, so I think she would  have thought  having life and CIC insurance 
could have been a benefit to her family.
But Ms H was protecting the outstanding balance  of her mortgage that went  down over time. So I 
dont think the recommendation to take a LTA policy was suitable.  Instead I think  Ms H should  have 
been recommended to take out a DTA policy. That would have been better  suited to her needs and 
would have cost less.
was Ms H given information that was clear, fair and not misleading?
  
Halifax had to give Ms H enough information so that she could decide whether to take out the 
insurances. Ive looked at the documentation thats been provided and I cant  be certain that she was 
given all the information about the policies  that she needed. But I think  that Ms H would have bought 
the PPI policy even if she had all of the information when  she signed  up for it. And I think she would 
have still bought a life and CIC policy, albeit  a slightly different type.
Ref: DRN20579516I say this as Ms H wasnt caught by any restrictions in the PPI policy  and would  have been eligible for 
the full benefits. As Ive already found,  the PPI policy was suitable and affordable  for her and she 
chose to take it out. So I dont think that knowing  more  about the cost and benefit  would  have put Ms 
H off taking it out.
But I do think  Ms H would  have taken out a different  type of life and CIC policy if she knew more  
about it. I think she would have bought one that paid out a reducing amount over time.
what Halifax needs to do put things right
At present I intend to tell Halifax to pay to Ms H the different in cost between  what she paid for her 
LTA policy (for life and CIC cover) and what she would have paid for an equivalent DTA policy  set 
over the same term. I think this would  put her in the position, so far as is possible,  that shed be in 
now if shed been appropriately advised.
To work out how much  compensation is payable, Halifax  should work out the premium Ms H would 
have needed to pay for a decreasing policy  with cover of £54,500 over a 30 year term. This should be 
based on her age and health in 2006  and the premium  rates applicable at the time. I currently think it 
should then pay compensation of A + B, where:
A = the cost of each overpayment, calculated as the difference between the premium  Ms H 
paid and the premium for a decreasing policy providing cover of £54,500, while the policy  was 
in force; and
B = simple  interest at 8% per year on each overpayment from the date it was paid to the date 
compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
If it turns out that Halifax  cant say what a decreasing  policy would  have cost Ms H in 2006,  maybe 
because it didnt offer that type of cover at the time for example, Halifax should  let me know and how 
it proposes to work out compensation. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to partly uphold  Ms Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
and tell it to work out and pay compensation.
Bank of Scotland  plc and Ms H should now let me have anything  further theyd like me to think about 
before I issue  a final decision.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2057951