K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr P between  February  
2015 and September 2016. Mr P borrowed amounts  ranging between £100  and £200 to be 
repaid in six monthly instalments.  There  were  no significant gaps in the borrowing. As far as 
I can see, Mr P repaid  all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint in part and thought loan five shouldnt have been 
given. Sunny disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN24608702This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Sunny asked Mr P for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out credit 
checks. Mr P said his monthly income was between £1,280 and £1,315. He said his total 
monthly expenditure was under £500.  
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr P provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr P was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Sunny to have approved 
loans one to four.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
five. I say this because by loan five the pattern of Mr Ps borrowing showed that he was 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans:
Mr P had taken out five loans and had been  borrowing for sixteen months  without any 
significant breaks and without  any significant  decreases in the amounts he was 
borrowing.
For loan five, Mr P was provided  with a new loan within  two weeks of settling  his 
previous one. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr P was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and Mr Ps indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan five was taken 
out 19 months after Mr Ps first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr P had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing for loan five 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN24608703the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ps ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan five and I think Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the pattern  of Mr Ps borrowing for loan five means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan five should  be removed from Mr Ps credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr P compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460870