K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited didn't deal with a motor  insurance 
claim fairly.
background
Mr M was in an incident with another driver.  He didn't initially  tell Tesco  about it. But, some 
months later Tesco contacted him to say that the other drivers insurer  had made a claim 
against his policy.  Mr M eventually made a claim himself. He wasn't  happy  with a number of 
aspects of Tescos service including  amongst  others  - its liability decision, its 
communication and the valuation of his car. He brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didn't think  Tesco had dealt  with Mr M fairly. The adjudicator noted that 
Tesco hadn't been clear in its communication about  liability or about  a deduction it had made  
from the cars valuation.  So he said that Tesco should refund  Mr M £350 it had deducted 
from the cars valuation  and add simple interest to that sum. He added that it should pay 
Mr M £50 compensation  to address his distress and inconvenience.
Tesco didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr M and Tesco have made a number of detailed  points.  I've 
considered every comment made but in this decision  I will focus on what I see as the key 
outstanding aspects of the complaint.
liability 
Mr M is unhappy  that Tesco initially told him it was holding  the other driver at fault for the 
accident but later said that he would have to share  the responsibility for it.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ms policy allows  
Tesco to settle  claims  as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Mr Ms consent  to decide 
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Mr M doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see that its done so reasonably.
I understand Mr M is adamant that he wasn't in anyway responsible for the accident. Mr M 
caught the incidents on his a dash cam. So theres video footage  of the accident  happening. 
There are actually two incidents  within a short space  of time between  the same  cars. The 
first is clear  that the other driver is at fault.  But the second is far less clear cut as the two 
drivers merge  lanes and the road is affected by roadworks. And the other drivers insurer felt 
the footage showed  that Mr M was to blame. So I can understand why Tesco  weren't 
confident that, if the matter went to court, the court would find in Mr Ms favour. So I think  its 
conclusion that liability should be shared was reasonable in the circumstances. Although I 
understand Mr M will most likely disagree. 
Ref: DRN23204452But Tescos  communication about  its view on liability  has been  a little confusing. Thats  
because at various points it told Mr M that it felt hed be held partly at fault but then told him 
it was holding the other driver 100% to blame.  And Tesco acknowledged that it had provided 
some conflicting information when it responded  to Mr Ms complaint. So I think  its 
communication on this point could have been clearer and I think thats caused Mr M some 
distress and inconvenience.
valuation
 
Tescos engineers deemed that Mr Ms car wasn't economical to repair. Mr M wasn't  happy  
with its valuation of the car. I should  explain that it's not my role to value  cars but Ill look to 
see that an insurers reached its valuation reasonably. Our usual approach  to complaints 
about valuation  is to look at the relevant trade  guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We 
find these reliable as theyre based  on nationwide research of likely selling prices.  Having  
done so, Im satisfied that the valuation  Tesco  gave,  including  a deduction for excess  
mileage was reasonable as it was in line with the valuations provided  in the trade  guides.
Tesco made a further deduction from the valuation of £350 to cover  the costs  of repairs  to 
the cars  pre-existing damage. The initial engineers report simply says that to return the car 
to retail condition would cost more than £350. It doesn't  set out what repairs where required 
or the costs of those. I would usually say that it would be reasonable for a business  to 
deduct 50% of the cost of repairs  but Id have to be satisfied that the costs were reasonable.
In response to our adjudicators view Tesco provided a little more detail about the repairs 
required. It noted some rust, a broken tail light and said the suspension was knocking. It 
later said that this would  cost around  £800  to repair, but again  didn't provide a breakdown of 
how it had arrived at those costs other than saying it had relied on its engineers expertise. It 
also referred to the MOT history showing that the car had initially  failed its MOT around five 
months earlier.
I don't think Tesco has done enough  to explain why it thinks the costs of repair are fair. It 
wouldn't have  been  difficult for Tesco to provide  a brief estimate of the individual  costs  of the 
repairs it said were required.  But it hasn't  done  that. And its amended the engineers report 
and referred to a knocking suspension. But this want  mentioned anywhere in the initial 
engineering report. So its unclear how its determined that the car has a knocking 
suspension based on photographic evidence over a year later. And I've noted that the cars 
suspension had been repaired in order to get it through its MOT around four months before  
the engineer first valued it. So I don't think its been clear about how its determined that the 
suspension required repair or what the costs  for that would be. And, because  I dont think 
Tesco has done  enough to show that the amounts it deducted from the valuation were  fair, I 
think it should refund that £350 to Mr M. It should add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year 
to that sum from the date it settled Mr Ms claim to the date it makes payment.  
Also, I think some  of Tescos service has caused Mr M some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. To address that I think it should pay him £50 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to:
Ref: DRN23204453Refund Mr M the £350 it deducted  from his cars valuation for repairs. It should add 
simple interest to that sum from the date it settled Mr Ms claim to the date it makes  
payment1.
Pay Mr M £50 compensation to address  his distress and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr M has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Tesco considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2320445