K821x#15complaint
Mr A has a motor insurance  policy underwritten  by Calpe  Insurance Company Limited. 
When he was involved in an accident,  the other driver made a claim on Mr As policy. Mr A 
says Calpe paid the other  drivers  inflated costs and later tried to charge him for its outlay.
  
background
Mr A says the other  driver crossed  through two lanes and then unexpectedly moved into 
Mr As lane.  He says he didnt have  a chance  to avoid  the other car, and the front corner  and 
front passenger side of the car was damaged. The other drivers representative told Calpe 
that the other driver  said hed emerged from a side street  and had travelled 50 yards when 
Mr As car hit his car in the rear. He said the collision caused damage to his rear bumper. 
Calpe said as there was no independent evidence, it wasnt possible to argue the case  in 
court. It agreed with the other drivers representative  to settle the claim on the basis  of split 
liability. Mr A had an all sections policy excess of £3,000. He didnt make a claim on his 
policy, but as the other driver did, Calpe settled his claim for repairs  and car hire. It then 
required Mr A to reimburse it £1,407.58. 
Mr A thought  the sum was excessive, so he checked with the other drivers representative. It 
said Calpe  had only paid it £1,035.58,  representing  50% of its outlay. It didnt  agree  that it 
had agreed to pay anything to Calpe,  contrary to what Mr A said Calpe had told him. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint. He didnt  think Calpe had carried out a 
proper investigation  into the accident. He thought Mr A had provided a much  fuller version of 
events than the other driver. He said Calpe hadnt  asked  an engineer for a view on how the 
accident was most  likely to have  happened.  Nor had it taken legal advice. He also noted  that 
Calpe had charged Mr A for the cost of an investigator and for motor  engineers  fees, which  
he thought was unfair. The investigator proposed that Calpe should waive any fees and 
refund any sum Mr A had already paid. He said it should mark the claim non-fault  and refund 
any higher premium Mr A had paid as a result  of the claim if his new insurer didnt do so. 
Calpe said it had taken  into account all the facts  provided by both parties,  plus the damage 
to both cars,  but didnt take legal  advice as that would  have  been  an extra charge for Mr A to 
pay. It said the policy set out that Mr A would be charged for external claims-handling 
charges. It said this  plus the high policy excess - meant it charged a low premium.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mr As complaint and adding to the remedies  as follows:
Although Mr A doesnt accept that the other drivers  insurer  offered to pay part of any claim 
he made, the evidence  on the file shows that it agreed to a 50:50 split on liability.  So Calpe 
didnt give Mr A incorrect advice on this point. As Mr A decided  not to make a claim, the 
other insurer wasnt required to pay anything.
When the investigator asked Calpe how it had made  its decision on liability, it said 
Our policyholder was emerging from a side road, in these circumstances it is very likely that 
we would be found at fault. Calpe went on to quote  its investigators  view, as follows:
We feel that liability in this matter  should ultimately  rest with her being the responsible  party, 
due to the fact that the accident has occurred whilst she was in the process  of emerging 
from a side road. This explanation  clearly applies to another case. 
Ref: DRN24669682The external  investigator  Calpe  employed to interview Mr A took a full statement from him 
and assessed  his credibility.  He also viewed the location of the accident. Mr A told the 
investigator that he was travelling on the main road, in the outer lane of three. So it wasnt 
possible for him to move to the right to avoid a car moving into his lane. He explained the 
way the other driver moved  his car across the other lanes and finally  entered  his lane - 
without warning  so although  Mr A braked hard,  he couldnt avoid a collision. 
The investigator told Calpe that - based on Mr As account  he thought the other driver was 
at fault. He thought Mr As account was credible and said hed make a good  witness  if 
required. Calpe seems to have  disregarded  this evidence  or at least  failed to follow-up on 
it, which in my view doesnt seem fair or reasonable in the circumstances here. 
Mr As detailed  account of events  is in stark  contrast to the one-line account  given  by the 
other driver.  He simply said he joined the main road from a side road and drove  a very short 
distance before Mr As car collided with his. I think the sketch he drew is very basic. Given 
the road layout,  it doesnt seem that it would have been possible for Mr As car to collide with 
the rear of the other drivers car unless either  the other driver travelled  across several lanes  
or Mr A was in the inside lane. But the latter situation wouldnt have fitted with the normal  
journey home from work that Mr A makes every  day. His usual route requires him to use the 
middle or the outer  of the three lanes, and he says thats what  he did.  
As the other  driver emerged from a side road, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Calpe to query what his plan was on entering the main road. His sketch  of the location  didnt 
show his version of where each car was positioned. He made no mention of changing lanes, 
nor did he say where he intended  to drive to. That may have  given some  indication of what  
he was likely to have  had to do after leaving the side road to get to his destination.  
The engineers report shows that Mr As car sustained damage  to its passenger-side wing.  
From the images, I think it looks  as though  the damage is to the front passenger  side and to 
the front corner. It doesnt seem likely that such  damage could have been caused by Mr As 
car driving  into the rear of the other  car. Calpe says its engineer  isnt there  to say how the 
damage happened. But I think it would  have been reasonable to ask him if he thought the 
damage was in line with Mr As version  of events  or not. Ive seen many engineers reports 
assessing accident damage, and it isnt unusual for engineers  to provide such  comments.
Our investigator thought Calpe should have taken legal advice. Calpe said it didnt do that 
due to the expense. Under  the policy, Calpes entitled to decide how to settle any claim. But 
it has to act reasonably  in making its decisions. In my view,  if further  enquiries  are 
necessary, they shouldnt  be avoided due to the likely cost.  I dont think  Calpe would have 
had to engage a solicitor  in order to seek further  details from the other driver anyway. With 
more information,  it could then better have assessed  how likely his account  of events was. 
Calpe may still have decided to settle  the claim with joint liability.  But I think it would have  
been able to argue more strongly  that its decision was fair after a better investigation.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was reasonable to hold Mr A jointly to blame 
for the accident.  So I think his complaint should be upheld and that Calpe should  put him 
back in the position he was in prior to the accident.  
I think the claim should be marked as non-fault on databases. Calpe shouldnt require Mr A 
to pay part of the other drivers costs.  Nor should he be charged for Calpes costs. We dont 
Ref: DRN24669683think its fair or reasonable to charge  a consumer for the cost of investigating a claim,  no 
matter how the insurer  describes  those costs and whether  they are external or internal.  
Mr As new insurer  may have charged him more  for his new policy  based  on the fault claim 
on his record. If so, Calpe should pay Mr A the extra sum charged if the new insurer  doesnt 
refund it. I also think Calpe should  pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes faced  as a result of the way Calpe handled the claim.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Calpe didnt comment. Mr A 
accepted it and provided evidence that hed paid the policy excess to Calpe.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party made  any comment  on 
my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Waive the charge  against Mr A for part of the other drivers costs
Waive the charge  against Mr A for part of Calpes costs
Mark the incident as non-fault on internal and external  databases
Subject to evidence,  refund any extra sum charged by Mr As new insurer due to the 
fault claim on his record if the other insurer doesnt agree  to refund the sum
Refund the policy excess Mr A has paid
Add interest to the sums above at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement  
Pay Mr A £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
If Calpe thinks HM Revenue & Customs  requires it to withhold income tax from any interest 
paid, it should  tell Mr A how much  its taken off and give him a tax deduction certificate  if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim it. Under  the Financial Ombudsman  Services  rules, Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2466968