K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains UK Insurance  Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) (UKI)  has declined  a 
claim he made under his home insurance  policy. 
background
In January 2019, Mr A contacted UKI and explained smoke was coming  out of his washing 
machine when turned on. UKI asked him to obtain  a cause of damage  report from an 
engineer as it needed to ascertain the cause of the smoke.  The engineers report  concluded 
the drum bearings  and the drum support bar were faulty. UKI turned down Mr As claim on 
the basis that his policy  didnt cover  mechanical  or electrical breakdown. 
Mr A disagreed and complained as he believed  his claim fell under the accidental damage 
section of the policy cover. UKI contacted  the engineer about the report  and was told the 
damage was likely to have been  caused  by wear  and tear. When it contacted Mr A to explain 
it wasnt going to cover his claim as wear and tear was excluded,  he told UKI the damage 
may have  happened when he moved  his washing machine. UKI explained the damage 
wasnt consistent with accidental damage. Mr A obtained a second engineers report but UKI 
informed him that its decision to decline  the claim remained unchanged as the report  didnt 
confirm the cause of the damage.  
Mr A referred the matter to our service.  Our investigator concluded UKI had correctly 
declined the claim. Mr A disagreed and asked for the matter  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. In summary, his response  to the investigator was:
UKI didnt want to pay the claim from the outset;
At the time he came  to inspect  the washing machine, the first engineer  didnt know  it 
had been moved. Mr A obtained  a clarification  note from him and it was then 
forwarded to our service;
the damage or breakdown couldnt be down to wear and tear as several of the 
properties in the area were built by the same building company and had the same  
appliances fitted. None of Mr As neighbours have had a problem with their washing 
machines.
So the complaint was passed to me to consider.
provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019. I said:
While I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr A, Im not minded to uphold his 
complaint  Ill explain why.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr A and UKI that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above,  Ive considered everything Ive been provided with. 
Ref: DRN29517402The issue  for me to consider here is whether UKI was fair to decline Mr As claim. The 
starting point is the agreement between Mr A and UKI  the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr As policy  provides cover for damage caused  by certain  events such as storm, theft, fire 
etc. But none  of these apply to Mr As claim. The only possible section that could cover  this 
claim is accidental damage  which the policy defines as sudden and unintentional physical 
damage that happens unexpectedly.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said about moving  his washing machine which  
was around a couple of months  prior to noticing the smoke.  If grabbing it by the drum did 
indeed cause damage, then I agree it meets the physical damage part of the definition of 
accidental damage.  It can also be said that the damage was unintentional as Im satisfied 
Mr A didnt set out to damage his washing machine. In the same manner, I think it could also 
be said it happened unexpectedly. But Im not persuaded the damage  could  reasonably be 
considered sudden. I say this because I think it unlikely Mr A wouldve been able to continue  
to use his machine  regularly  for a couple of months, seemingly without any problem, if hed 
damaged it suddenly when he moved it. 
Having given this a lot of thought, I think theres insufficient evidence  to say that Mr As 
actions were the proximate cause of the smoke  he noticed a few months  after moving the 
washing machine.  In reaching  this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that neither engineer has 
been able to say that its more likely than not Mr As actions caused  the damage  hes 
claiming for  though its been deemed  a possible contributor. Ive also thought about Mr As 
comments about his neighbours having  the same appliance. But Im not persuaded that, 
even with a machine of the same  make and model, each household would have the same 
experience. Factors like frequency of use, the weight of loads, and even luck to a degree  
would impact the life of the machines. I consider it unlikely  that theyd all stop working at 
around the same time.
I should also mention  at this point that Mr As policy doesnt provide cover for all 
eventualities. This isnt unusual  as its up to the insurer to decide what level of risk its 
prepared to cover in return for premiums.  Page 7 of the policy wording  sets out what  Mr As 
policy doesnt cover  in terms of accidental damage.  This includes, but isnt limited  to: wear 
and tear; any damage caused gradually;  or the cost of repairing or replacing any item 
following a mechanical  or electrical fault or breakdown, or where it has failed or stopped  
working despite there being no apparent damage. The damage Mr As claiming for could fall 
under any of these  terms. 
So, overall, while it appears that there  was some  form of accidental  damage to the washing 
machine, Im not persuaded it meets the policy definition of accidental  damage given that 
there were a couple of months  between it being  moved and the washing machine showing 
clear signs  of damage. 
Mr A has said UKI didnt want to pay the claim from the outset. Ive listened to the initial call 
and can understand why Mr A feels he was discouraged to make  a claim. But UKI has 
already acknowledged the service provided  by its agent during the initial call was poor and 
has paid £80 to Mr A in recognition of this. I consider this as fair compensation given the 
circumstances. Mr As also complained  that he had to pay to commission  two reports. But 
Mr As policy  requires  him to give UKI any relevant information and evidence  it asks for. It 
also states that he would have to do this at his own expense.  So I dont agree it was 
unreasonable for UKI to ask Mr A to substantiate  his claim by obtaining a cause of damage 
report.
Ref: DRN29517403Taking everything into account,  I dont consider UKI has acted unreasonably or unfairly  by 
declining Mr As claim on the weight of the evidence available.
responses
In my provisional decision,  I gave both parties an opportunity to reply before I reached a final 
decision. Mr A replied with the further information and questions.
He said he had moved the washing  machine a couple  of weeks prior to noticing the 
smoke, not a couple of months as Id stated in my provisional decision; 
He also said during the few weeks between moving it and noticing the smoke, the 
machine was used  only once;
He highlighted  the engineers report clearly and undoubtedly  indicated  moving  the 
washing machine  by grabbing the inner  drum had caused the damage;  and
He questioned why his neighbours washing machines,  which were the same make  
and model and installed at the same time, were still working when they were being 
used even more  frequently.  He further  questioned how it could be wear and tear that 
caused the failure of the machine.
UKI didnt  provide any further information  for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr A has told us it was a few weeks, not months, between  moving  his 
washing machine  and noticing  the smoke. I should explain that UKIs contact notes state  
Mr A told it he had moved the machine a few months ago. Our investigator referred to 
months in her findings and Mr A didnt question  it. So, given this and based  on what  Id 
seen, I also made reference  to months  in my provisional decision. But, given the 
discrepancy, Ive since asked for a copy of the call recording  between  Mr A and UKI which  
Ive now listened  to. In this, Mr A said hed moved the machine a couple of months  ago. 
Later on in the call, he goes on to say hed moved the machine five to six weeks prior.  
However, whether  it was a couple of weeks or a couple  of months, I still conclude that the 
damage doesnt meet the sudden  part of the policys  definition  of accidental  damage. As 
the issue didnt  manifest  itself for at least a couple of weeks,  theres  insufficient  evidence for 
me to say the damage to Mr As washing machine was caused suddenly; at the time he 
moved it; and as a result  of moving  it. 
Mr A has now told us he only used the machine once between  moving  it and noticing  the 
smoke. I question why this information wasnt forthcoming before. And Im not sure why, 
when hes previously told us his family circumstances are such  that there is a regular need 
for a washing machine,  Mr A wouldve only used it once during the period of either a few 
weeks or a few months. Regardless, the damage  doesnt meet  the policy  definition  of 
accidental damage.  And, as this is the only possible section in the policy  that could cover 
this claim,  Im still not persuaded UKI has acted  unfairly.
Ref: DRN29517404Ive also considered the clarification email Mr A obtained from the first engineer.  But I dont 
agree with Mr As interpretation of what the engineer  has said.  He states  moving the 
machine, could have  possibly caused or at least attributed to the problem with the 
drum/support. This isnt conclusive evidence that moving the machine  caused the damage. 
Even if it was, for the reasons given above, I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to conclude 
the damage meets the policy definition  of accidental damage.  
Mr A has also made reference to his neighbours washing machines. Im satisfied that I 
addressed this point  sufficiently  in my provisional decision.  I should  also point out I havent 
said the machine  broke down because of wear and tear. Instead,  Ive concluded that there  
isnt sufficient evidence  to say it was due to accidental damage. 
Overall, I dont  think UKI has acted unreasonably  by declining  Mr As claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2951740