K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Mr and Ms H applied  for the mortgage and PPI during a meeting with the bank.
The PPI was in Mr Hs name. The monthly benefit  would have covered Mr and Ms Hs 
monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months  if Mr H had made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time that's passed, Halifax no longer has copies of the documents  that 
Mr and Ms H signed when they took out the mortgage and PPI. I don't think  that's  
surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place more than 20 years ago.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Ms H took out the PPI. Mr and Ms 
H say there seemed to be no option not to take out the policy, and that it was positioned 
that [Mr H] didnt have a choice due to [his] age and earnings. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect them to remember exactly what  was said so long ago. So what 
they say about what  happened isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint.
In cases  like this, where  the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need  to decide what 
I thinks most likely  to have  happened, based on the information I have. Ive borne in 
mind that Mr and Ms Hs mortgage  was a major financial commitment,  due to run for a 
long period  of time. Their home would have been at risk if they didnt  keep their 
mortgage payments up to date.  PPI provided  a dependable means  of ensuring their 
monthly mortgage repayments  were protected if Mr H was off sick or lost his job. Ive 
also borne in mind that were not aware of any known  issues  with the way Halifax  sold 
these policies at the time.
Ref: DRN26622822I can appreciate  that its frustrating for Mr and Ms H that Ive had to reach  my decision 
without seeing  the paperwork they signed when they took out the mortgage. But based 
on the limited  evidence I have, I cant fairly conclude that the policy was added  without 
their consent. On balance, I think its more  likely  that they Halifax made Mr and Ms H 
aware that the policy was optional, and that they decided to take it because  they thought 
it was a good idea to protect their home by making sure they could continue to pay their 
mortgage payments if something  unforeseen happened. But I can understand how they 
may no longer remember this, so many years  later.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms H. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Ms H have told us that Mr H would  have been  entitled to 
some sick pay from his employer.  He also says hed have been entitled  to a redundancy 
package. But if Mr H had made a successful  claim  on the policy,  it would have paid out 
for significantly longer than hes told us hed have  been entitled to full sick pay for. 
Whats more, it would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy  pay that 
Mr H received from his employer. So Mr and Ms H could have used Mr Hs employee 
benefits to meet  other  day-to-day expenses.  
Taking  everything  into account, I think the policy could  have  provided  Mr and Ms H with 
a useful benefit, especially  as Mr H was the main wage-earner in the household, and 
theyve told us that aside from Mr Hs limited employee benefits and Ms Hs earnings, 
they didnt  have  any other means  they could have used to make  their mortgage 
payments if Mr H had been off sick, or if hed lost his job.
Mr and Ms H say they didnt know how much  they were  paying for the PPI. And I accept 
that it may be that Halifax could  have explained  the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But the policy was competitively priced, and Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Mr and Ms H couldnt afford  it. So even  if Halifax had given them clearer information 
about the cost of the policy, Im not convinced that this would have put Mr and Ms H off 
taking it out.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements  or existing medical conditions). But, based on what 
theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr and Ms H would 
have been affected  by any of these.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Ms Hs comments, including  what  theyve said about 
having felt pressured into taking the policy. But while I accept that Halifax  may have 
recommended the PPI to them, pressure is another matter, and I cant  fairly conclude that 
pressure was put on Mr and Ms H to take the PPI, based purely on their recollection of a 
conversation that took place more than 20 years ago 
Mr and Ms H have  also commented that Halifax  didnt tell them  that they could  buy PPI 
elsewhere to cover  the mortgage. But Halifax wasnt obliged to tell them  about products  that 
may have  been  available from other providers. So these points dont change my conclusion 
that the PPI wasnt  mis-sold.
Ref: DRN26622823my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2662282