K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of the estate of the late Mr W. 
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) provided a poor service to him and his 
family members when they were administering the estate.  He wants  compensation to be 
paid to the main  beneficiary of the Will, and compensation for his and the other executors for 
their inconvenience.  
background
Mr W passed away in early  2017. 
Mr Ws son, Mr A, his daughter,  J, and his wife, Mrs W, were all named as executors in the 
Will. 
Mrs W was also the main  beneficiary of the Will, and she jointly  held Santander accounts 
with Mr W. 
Mr A, and the other  executors, contacted  Santander  shortly after Mr Ws death. The details 
of Mr A, and J were taken  and recorded  on the system as executors. Mr A was recorded  as 
the primary contact for the executors. 
Over the following months,  Santander  wrote to the executors and requested  a copy  of the 
grant of probate, and also requesting payment instructions. At this time the executors had 
not yet received the grant  of probate. 
In July 2018, Mrs W was registered as an executor. 
In October  2018, Mrs W attended  a branch  of Santander with the grant of probate.  No 
payment instruction was taken on that day. 
Santander then closed Mr Ws accounts and issued a cheque  for the balances to Mr A. 
Mr A contacted Santander, concerned  that the cheque had been issued to him. The 
executors wanted  the funds to be put into an inheritance ISA in the name  of Mrs W, who was 
the beneficiary of the funds. 
During calls to Santander, Mr A was wrongly informed that there  was no inheritance ISA 
product. The agent  advised Mr A that an ISA could not be transferred to another party  or into 
another ISA. 
Mr A requested that the cheque  be reissued made out to Mrs W. Mr A was advised that this 
was not possible, so Mr A registered a complaint.  
Santander sent its final response  to Mr As complaint in late October 2018. This repeated  
that an ISA could not be transferred to another ISA, and that the cheque  had been issued to 
Mr A because no other payment instruction had been received. Santander also argued that 
Mr A was the person that had provided identification. Santander  therefore  rejected the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN25782532After the final response from Santander,  Mr A spoke with a local branch manager and 
subsequently Santander agreed to reissue the cheque in Mrs Ws name. 
This was then paid into an inheritance ISA in early November 2018. 
Mr A then contacted us. He complained that he and the other  executors had been given 
wrong information by Santander, and had been caused additional inconvenience.  He said 
that Mrs W had lost out on the benefit  of interest  on the funds in the inheritance  ISA between 
mid October  and early November, and that he felt Santander ought  to pay compensation for 
the familys inconvenience and increased distress. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that Santander had not caused any financial loss to the estate, as the delay in the 
cheque being  made payable to Mrs W was because  no payment instruction had been given 
to Santander.
The investigator agreed that there  had been  parts of the service  provided by Santander 
which fell short of a reasonable standard, particularly  in relation to incorrect information 
being given regarding the availability of an inheritance ISA, and how the family  could  go 
about opening such an ISA. However, due to the limits of the powers of the ombudsman 
service she concluded  that she was not able to recommend any compensation be paid to the 
executors or the estate,  as our powers  only allow compensation to be paid to a consumer. 
Mr A did not accept this view and asked  for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also sought  additional information  from Mr A, regarding what he considers are the 
financial effects upon the estate. 
Mr A has set out that he believes  that Mrs W was a consumer of Santander  as she jointly 
held accounts  with Mr W and was treated as a consumer in relation to those  accounts.  He 
notes that he and the other executors had to spend significant time dealing  with Santander, 
checking and arguing the information provided.  He says that this added  a great deal of 
stress to the familys grief and that he believed that the beneficiary, Mrs W, had lost out on 
interest during  the time before the cheque was ultimately reissued. 
I would firstly like to make clear that I have every sympathy with Mr A, J and Mrs W, who 
have clearly experienced a very difficult and stressful time since Mr Ws death. I understand 
that bank processes for bereaved people are intended to make  easier  the already difficult 
process of administering the estate of a loved  one. In this case those processes clearly 
failed. 
I also agree  with the investigator that the evidence demonstrates  that Santander provided an 
inadequate service  when advising about inheritance ISA products and what  could be done 
with Mr Ws existing ISA. This must have been  very frustrating and upsetting for Mr A to 
receive conflicting and wrong information at that time. 
Ref: DRN25782533I do, however,  have  to look at the complaint  within the powers of this organisation, and I 
agree with the investigator that we are unable to make awards of compensation for distress  
and inconvenience  to non-consumers. 
In a normal banking  relationship the account  holder is a consumer. When that account 
holder passes away, their estate itself becomes the consumer, rather  than any or all of the 
executors. Consequently,  compensation cannot  be awarded to the estate for emotional  
distress or inconvenience. 
Mr A has set out that he believes  that Mrs W was a consumer, as the main  beneficiary of the 
Will and as a joint account holder. 
Mrs W would  most  likely be considered a consumer in relation to the jointly held accounts, 
but these were not the accounts  in issue in this case. In relation  to the ISA accounts which 
were held in Mr Ws sold name, Mrs W, as beneficiary, was not a consumer of Santander.  
Consequently, I agree with the investigators  conclusion that, whatever my thoughts  on the 
service provided to the executors  and the estate,  I am not able to direct  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to the estate. 
I have also considered whether there  was a financial loss caused to the estate by any 
actions of Santander, as it is within our powers to compensate such loss. 
Mr A has set out that he feels that Santander  issuing the cheque  to Mr A, rather than Mrs W, 
caused a delay in opening an inheritance  ISA for Mrs W. He considers that there  was a 
financial effect of the loss of interest  on the funds from 18 October until 7 November  2018.  
Santander has submitted  that it does not consider  that it caused a financial loss, as it had 
requested payment instructions,  and when these were not received  it issued  the cheque  to 
the first registered executor. 
Based on the evidence  available, which shows that Santander did request payment 
instructions, and there being no evidence that payment instructions were given before the 
cheque was issued,  I do not think it was unreasonable  or wrong of Santander  to issue the 
cheque to Mr A as it did. Whilst I realise this was not what the executors wanted, I cannot 
see that this was made clear to Santander before the cheque was issued, and it was 
subsequently corrected within a reasonable time. 
As a result, I do not consider that Santander caused the estate a financial loss, and I make  
no award of compensation. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr A, and the other executors, but I hope 
it explains clearly why I have reached this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Santander UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, Mrs W and J 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January  2020.
Ref: DRN25782534Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2578253