K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the mortgage endowment  policy recommended  by 
TenetConnect Services Limited in 1995, saying  he would have been better off taking out a 
flexible savings plan that had no life cover given his circumstances at the time.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 27 December  2018. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Neither party responded to this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision I uphold this complaint.
I instruct TenetConnect to compare the returns Mr M received  on this policy with what he 
would have got by an appropriate low risk investment product. To do this it should  use the 
formula recommended  by this service  and known as 50/50  i.e. an equal  combination  of the 
returns from the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and those via the 
FTSE UK Private  Investors Income Total Return  Index. 
This, in my view, fairly reflects the returns Mr M might have received via a suitable low risk 
savings plan. If this comparison shows a loss , it should pay this figure and add 8% simple  
interest per annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TenetConnect Services Limited   to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21521592Provisional decision
complaint
Mr M has complained about the mortgage endowment policy  recommended by TenetConnect 
Services Limited in 1995, saying he would  have been better off taking out a flexible  savings plan that 
had no life cover given his circumstances at the time.
background
Mr M was approached by a financial advisor when he joined the Army at the age of 20. The advisor 
recommended that he take out a mortgage endowment policy, partly as a means  to get on the 
property ladder at a later date.
Mr M said he was sold it as a savings  plan and never used it to obtain or support a mortgage and that 
he eventually took out a repayment one. He only retained the policy  for so long due to the poor 
returns which  he assumed were due to the fact that the documentation warned that it needs to be 
retained for 25 years for maximum  benefit.  He said he only recently  discovered  that he would have  
been better off taking  out a policy that had no life cover and was more flexible.
An adjudicator at this service felt his complaint  should be upheld.  He said Mr M was looking for a 
savings plan but not planning to purchase a property. The policy sold was for a fixed 25 year term and 
with significant penalties if surrendered early. It had life cover which Mr M did not need as he was 
already contributing to a life policy provided by the Army.  Also, given  he was 20 years old and only 
starting out in his career, he should have been recommended a far more flexible  savings vehicle.
He therefore felt TenetConnect should pay compensation  by comparing the return  Mr M had received 
with what he might  have got from a more  suitable savings  plan. He said it should  use the standard  
medium risk formula recommended by this service i.e. the returns  delivered via the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index.
TenetConnect did not agree,  and said:
 Mr M was notified at the outset that the policy had a term of 25 years
 The policy documentation  confirmed that it contained life cover; if this was not required then he 
should have been aware at the time that this was not suitable
 The information provided at the point of sale notified him that the policy would  have little or no cash  
in value in the early years  and that surrender may not be the best option
 The point of sale document stated "it is normally  possible  to amend your policy to take account  of 
changes in circumstances, e.g. marriage;  examples are addition of a second person to the policy, 
shorten the policy term, increase or decrease the premiums. Please contact us in the first instance for 
advice rather than throwing  away your policy and premiums paid
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have to say that I am extremely  surprised  that TenetConnect has sought to defend what I believe is 
a thoroughly indefensible recommendation.  The advisor  was required to make an appropriate and 
suitable recommendation; the fact that Mr M received the necessary documentation  does not justify 
the sale.
Ref: DRN21521593Firstly, Mr M had no immediate plans to buy a property/take out a mortgage and so the advisor could  
have had no idea when this would  happen, if ever, how much he would  borrow or for how long.  So 
this policy was no more likely to prove a successful fit for a future mortgage commitment than buying  
a lottery ticket with the hope it would  pay off a mortgage.
Secondly, Mr M, at the age of 20, could have no idea how long he might  be willing and able to make 
such a savings commitment  or at what level. So an inflexible 25 year plan with significant penalties for 
early surrender was completely unsuitable.
The reason for this Provisional Decision is because I dont share the adjudicators  view about  the 
appropriate redress  formula. This was a with-profits plan, typically recognised as a fairly  low risk 
investment. I also feel a low risk savings plan would have been the most  suitable recommendation. 
Therefore compensation  should  be based on a low risk formula  for assessing potential  loss rather 
than the medium risk formula currently proposed.
I intend  to instruct TenetConnect to compare  the returns Mr M received with what he would have got 
by using  the formula  known  as 50/50  i.e. an equal combination of the returns  from the Bank of 
Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and those  via the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income 
Total Return  Index. This, in my view,  fairly reflects the returns Mr M might have received via a suitable 
low risk savings plan.  I also intend to instruct it to pay 8% simple interest on any loss  from the date 
of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct TenetConnect Services Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2152159