K821x#15complaint
Miss M says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid (QuickQuid),  lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  which QuickQuid provided to Miss M between  
February 2016 and August 2017. Miss Ms borrowing history with QuickQuid  is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount borrowed
Date paid 
backComments
1 20/02/2016 £100 24/03/2016
2 31/03/2016 £200 24/06/2016 The loan was topped up once for 
£50, and payment  deferred once. 
3 09/07/2016 £200 23/09/2016 The loan was topped up once, for 
£50.
4 18/02/2017 £100 25/05/2017 The loan was refinanced.
5 31/05/2017 £300 05/07/2017 The loan was topped up twice, for 
£150 and then £75. 
6 15/08/2017 £150 22/12/2017 The loan was topped up once for 
£50, and payment  deferred twice. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ms complaint and thought  the loans from the point loan four 
was refinanced onwards shouldnt have been  given. QuickQuid disagreed and the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending, including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ms income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN24245172the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a consumer has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the consumer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending history  with Miss M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think  that this point was reached 
when loan four was refinanced. I say this because:
By that time, QuickQuid had already lent to Miss M six times  within  around twelve 
months. Although  there had been a short gap before Miss M took the fourth loan, she 
was asking to borrow frequently  and the amounts  she required (taking account of 
top-ups) didnt seem to be decreasing over time. QuickQuid had already been 
providing Miss M with high-interest rate loans intended for short-term use for over a 
year. It ought to have realised it was more  likely  than not Miss M was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her 
finances and that Miss Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.  I dont  think it 
was responsible for Quick Quid to refinance  loan four for Miss M in the way it did. 
After loan four was refinanced, the pattern continued. QuickQuid granted  Miss M loan 
five shortly after she paid back  loan four, and loan six shortly  after she paid back  loan 
five. It also granted  several top-ups. With both loan five and loan six it was lending  
more than Miss M had originally  needed.  By this time, Miss M had paid large  
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service her debt to QuickQuid  over an extended 
period. For both loans  and all top-ups, QuickQuid should have realised that Miss Ms 
borrowing wasnt sustainable.  I think it acted  irresponsibly in lending  her loans five 
and six and the top-ups which accompanied them. 
I think that Miss M lost out when QuickQuid  continued  to lend from the point  loan four was 
refinanced onwards because:
Ref: DRN24245173these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number  of loans and top-ups was likely to have had negative  implications 
on Miss Ms ability  to access mainstream  credit  and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  all loans from (and including) the point loan four was 
refinanced onwards. QuickQuid should put things right by paying her fair compensation.
putting things right 
To put things right, QuickQuid should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on all loans from the point loan four was 
refinanced onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
And as the number  of loans taken from the point loan four was refinanced onwards means 
that any information recorded about them is adverse, QuickQuid should arrange to remove 
all entries (if any) about these loans from Miss Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint.  CashEuroNet UK 
LLC, trading as QuickQuid, should pay Miss M the compensation I have described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2424517