K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining, on behalf of his limited company, company A, that Pharos Insurance  
Brokers Ltd (Pharos) mis-sold him an insurance  policy in 2016.
background
Mr M, who is the sole director  of company A, contacted Pharos in late 2016 to arrange  
insurance for his business. A number of policies were discussed and agreed upon, but in the 
end Mr M decided to purchase  a single policy from Pharos for office insurance. The policy 
was underwritten by a separate business.
Shortly after the policy was set up Pharos and the policys  underwriter  sent Mr M policy  
documents as well as a schedule of insurance  and a copy of his demands and needs  
statements. These outlined what insurance he had purchased and what  it was for. 
In 2017 the office policy  was renewed and again  the relevant documentation  was sent to 
Mr M. This included a copy of his renewed demands and needs as well as an updated  copy  
of the relevant terms and conditions. 
In early 2018 Mr M suffered a heart attack. He contacted both Pharos and the underwriter to 
notify them of this and ask to make a claim under his policy.  He was told that he had no 
cover for sickness or medical illness under the office policy and as a result  he wasnt able to 
claim.
Mr M initially responded by stating  he was covered under the employer liability  section of the 
policy as he believed because he works for company A, he should be treated as an 
employee of company A. He pointed out that section on employers liability  says that the 
policy providers employers with cover for:
We will indemnify You in respect  of
(1) Your legal liability to pay Compensation to any Employee
and
(2) Costs and Expenses as a result of Bodily Injury  caused in the course  of The Business, 
during the Period of Insurance and within the Territorial Limits.
Mr M believes his heart attack  falls under the definition of bodily injury  and so he should  be 
covered by the policy. 
Pharos (and later the underwriter) explained  to Mr M that bodily injury does not cover 
medical illnesses  such as heart attacks. It also explained to him that as the sole director  of 
company A hes not considered an employee within this context. If he claimed under the 
policy he would essentially be claiming against  himself. 
Mr M disputes this and believes he is both an employee and that bodily injury should be 
extended to cover such things as heart  disease. In addition to this he also says that he 
explicitly asked for medical  illness and sickness  cover in 2016 when he first purchased the 
policy through Pharos.  He has told us repeatedly that he asked for key man insurance and 
was under the impression his office policy  gave him this. 
Ref: DRN28942812Pharos has confirmed that it has never sold key man insurance  in any form. It says Mr M did 
enquire about different types  of insurances when he first contacted it in 2016 but as it didnt 
sell everything he wanted it redirected  him to an independent financial advisor (IFA) to 
discuss options for the other insurances  he wanted.  It has provided us with an email  from 
that IFA which confirms different options were discussed but Mr M declined to take out any 
additional cover  with him at the time. 
One of our investigators  looked into to Mr Ms complaint already. He found that there  was no 
supporting evidence to show that Mr M had requested or discussed taking out key man 
insurance, of any kind, with Pharos in 2016.  He also found  that Mr M had no cover  for 
medical illnesses  available to him under his office policy. For these reasons he didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint and so it has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done I wont be upholding Mr Ms 
complaint against  Pharos.  
It seems  to me that Mr Ms complaint is split into two different, but connected, issues.  Firstly 
was he mis-sold the office policy in 2016  and secondly, does he have cover for medical  
illness under  the employer  liability section  of his existing policy? 
For the sake of clarity I will address these under two separate headings.
Was the policy mis-sold in 2016?
Mr M has said that he explicitly asked for sickness and medical  illness cover when he first 
approached Pharos for insurance cover in 2016.  He has kindly provided us with a large 
volume of emails between  him and the Pharos representative he was dealing  with to verify  
this. 
Ive read all of the emails  and letters Mr M has sent over to us. Having done, so I can see no 
mention of him asking for, or about, sickness or medical insurance cover.  Indeed Pharos has 
provided us with copies of the demands and needs  statements  taken in both 2016 when the 
policy was first purchased, and in 2017 when  it was renewed. There  is no mention of any 
form of sickness or medical illness cover  in any of those letters, certificates of insurance,  
insurance schedules  or policy documentation.  
Mr M has told us that he asked for key man insurance repeatedly in 2016 when the policy  
was sold to him. However Pharos has confirmed that it has never,  since  its inception, sold 
key man insurance. 
While I dont doubt Mr M may have been thinking  about purchasing  this sort of insurance at 
the same  time in 2016,  I am satisfied that it was never part of his discussions with Pharos, 
either in 2016  or 2017. So I am satisfied that the policy  was not mis-sold.  And because  it 
wasnt mis-sold  I wont be asking Pharos to do anymore for Mr M in relation to this aspect of 
his complaint. 
Ref: DRN28942813Does employer liability cover medical illness claims?
Mr M believes that the definition of bodily injury should be extended to cover such  things as 
heart attacks. Mr M also believes  there is a direct link between his heart  attack and his work  
for company A. As such he has defined his heart attack as bodily injury resulted from work 
related causes. 
I can appreciate how Mr M has come to this conclusion. However I dont agree with his 
definition of bodily injury in this context.  And I dont  believe the policy was intended to 
provide cover in the sort of situation  Mr M found himself in. I also note that Pharos has tried 
to explain to Mr M that, as he is the sole director of company A, he wouldnt be considered 
an employee as per the definition of the policy. If he were to try to claim against the policy, 
which set up to protect the interests of his own company, company A, he would effectively 
be trying  to make a claim  against himself. 
So having  reviewed the policy terms and conditions I am satisfied that the employer liability 
section does not provide Mr M with cover  against conditions such as a heart  attacks. And so 
I am not upholding  this part of Mr Ms complaint either. 
As Mr M has complained  about both Pharos and the underwriters interpretation of his policy  
I should point  out that this decision only considers the complaint against  Pharos in relation to 
a potential mis-sale. If Mr M wants to make a complaint about the claim he has attempted 
against the underwriter  that would be a separate matter and he would  need  to contact the 
underwriter directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against  Pharos Insurance 
Brokers Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2894281