K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained as director of C, a limited  company, about unnecessary delays caused 
by Covea Insurance plc, following a claim on his business mini fleet policy.  
background 
Mr C acquired  a van through a hire purchase agreement. When  his van was stolen  he 
claimed on his insurance policy with Covea. As his van was under a year old the policy 
provided a new for old replacement. In order to replace the van Covea said it needed the 
agreement of the finance company who were  the legal owners of the van.
Mr C complained to Covea about the amount of time it took to provide him with a new van. 
Covea thought the delays  were due to the finance  company but accepted  it could have been 
more proactive in chasing the finance company for a response.  It sent Mr C £50 to 
compensate for this. 
Mr C remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. He said Covea had caused 
unnecessary delays and taken four months  to provide him with a new van. He didnt  think  it 
was fair hed paid finance for a van he didnt have during that time. He was also unhappy 
that hed had to pay VAT on the new van Covea  provided. 
Covea provided  information to show the contact it had with Mr Cs broker,  the finance 
company and the dealership. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and thought  Covea had caused an 
unnecessary delay of about three  weeks. However he didnt  think it was responsible for any 
other delays.  He recommended Covea increase its compensation  to £150 to recognise the 
inconvenience the delay had caused Mr C. But he thought  Mr C would always have had to 
pay the finance on his van. Our investigator  also thought it was reasonable for Mr C to have 
paid VAT as he would  be able to claim this back as his business is VAT registered. 
Covea agreed  to our investigators recommendation. Mr C didnt agree and asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with our 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
I can see there were a number of businesses involves in providing  Mr Cs replacement  van. 
In this decision I can only consider what Covea  and not any of the other businesses  
might, or might not, have  done wrong.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy say Covea  will provide  a new van replacement 
where the car is less than 12 months old and other conditions  are met. Covea said Mr C was 
entitled to a new van replacement under the terms of the policy. But in order  to provide one it 
needed the agreement of the finance  company, who were the vans legal owners. Thats 
reasonable as under  the terms of the hire agreement Mr C doesnt legally own the van until 
hes made all the payments. 
Ref: DRN22287462I can see Mr Cs broker reported the claim to Covea on 1 February 2018. Covea requested 
information which it received on 8 February.  Mr C called Covea on 19 February and it 
completed a checklist with him. Coveas showed it tried to call the finance  company on       
23 February but wasnt able to get through. I can see it noted it would try again later but 
didnt do so until 5 March. I think Covea caused  a delay here as it could have tried to get in 
contact with the finance company again  sooner.
The finance  company said it needed Mr Cs agreement to talk to Covea and Covea let       
Mr Cs broker  know this on the same  day. However I can see this agreement  wasnt 
provided for a couple of weeks. While I can see this caused a delay I dont think this was 
Coveas fault as it was waiting for Mr C to give his agreement. 
Once Mr C had given  his consent Covea  spoke to the finance company on 26 March. The 
finance company  asked  for a document  Covea couldnt provide. Covea contacted the 
finance company  by email to ask how it could  go ahead without the document.  It chased the 
finance company  for a response to this on 5 April. While Covea could have contacted the 
finance company  again sooner, I dont think it waited an unreasonable amount of time before 
trying to chase the response. 
The finance  company responded on 6 April and Covea ordered the new van on 19 April. I 
dont think there was any unreasonable delay here as Coveas engineer needed to review 
the replacement  van and it also consulted Mr Cs broker about it. 
Overall I agree Covea  could have done  things  more quickly at times  but I dont think they 
were responsible for all the delays. It seems  there  was a period of a couple  of weeks  where  
Covea caused  an unnecessary delay  and I think its fair it compensates  Mr C for this. So Ive 
thought about what would  be a fair and reasonable amount.
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy about  having  to pay his finance payments while he didnt have 
a van. But he would  always have had to make these payments for his van, so Im not going 
to ask Covea  to refund these for him. In his letter to Covea Mr C said hed spent over £2,000 
hiring another van. But he hasnt provided any invoices  or receipts  for these,  so Im not 
persuaded theres any financial loss for it to compensate him for. I do accept  the delay 
caused him the inconvenience of not having one of the vans he used for work. And Im 
satisfied £150  is a fair and reasonable amount for Covea to pay him to compensate for the 
delay. 
I understand Mr C was also unhappy  that he had to pay the VAT on his new van. However 
as his business is VAT registered hell be able to look to claim this back. This means its not 
an amount Mr C has lost by making his claim. So it wouldnt produce  a fair and reasonable 
outcome if I asked Covea  to pay the VAT as well. 
Ref: DRN22287463my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to pay 
C £150 for the unnecessary inconvenience it caused.
Covea should  pay this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays  
later than this it should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple from the date of my decision to 
the date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2228746