K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited declined  his claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) in relation  to a television he purchased.
background
Mr A bought a television on 31 December 2017 and says within a few months  it developed a 
fault with the screen. In early  June 2018  Mr A approached the merchant and asked it to help. 
He wanted someone  to come out and inspect the television. Mr A says the merchant offered 
to collect the television  to see whether it could be repaired. But the merchant  wouldnt  
provide a temporary replacement. The merchant also refused to complete the inspection at 
his home.  Mr A says that being without a television is a significant inconvenience  as set out 
in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Mr A contacted Amex  about the issue in June 2018 when he asked to make  a claim under 
Section 75 of the CCA.  He went  on to provide an independent report  to show a fault with the 
television. Amex  declined Mr As claim on 28 August 2018. Amex  said the claim wasnt 
successful because Mr A didnt give the merchant a chance to inspect or repair the 
television. But Mr A said that by removing the television from his home for inspection  (and 
potential repair) it would deprive  him and his family  of the only one they owned. Mr A feels 
that represents significant inconvenience.  
Mr A referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. The investigator 
didnt think Amex had made a mistake by rejecting the claim or that being without a 
television was significantly inconvenient.  Mr A responded and said that he didnt think  the 
merchant had the right to attempt a repair under the CRA. Mr A reiterated that allowing the 
merchant to take his television  for an indeterminate period without providing a temporary 
replacement should  be considered as significant  inconvenience. Mr A asked  to appeal so his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As claim for the television  was considered under  Section 75 of the CCA.  Im satisfied that 
the necessary  relationships exist between  Mr A, the merchant  and Amex for that type of 
claim. As a result, Ive looked at how the claim was handled. In addition, Ive thought  about  
how the CRA impacts  Mr As claim.  
The CRA allows customers to reject items and request a refund within 30 days  of purchasing 
it. But Mr A didnt raise his concerns with the merchant or Amex  in that time frame so there  
was no automatic right to a refund. 
However, Mr A did bring his claim within six months  of the purchase  which  means he could 
ask the merchant to repair  or replace the television. I think theres  some  difference of opinion  
concerning who decides whether the television  should be repaired or replaced.  Its up to the 
merchant to decide which is appropriate. And to do that, the merchant has to be able to 
inspect the item in question with a view to attempting  a repair.  To that end, the merchant 
here offered to collect the television in order to inspect  it and potentially  complete repairs. If 
repairing the television wasnt  possible,  Mr A would have been entitled  to a replacement.  
Ref: DRN25078862Mr A obtained an independent report that says theres a fault with the television so I 
understand why hes unhappy. Whilst I can see the independent report confirms there is an 
issue with the television, I still think its reasonable for the merchant to inspect  it and attempt 
repairs if possible. 
The key issue for this case appears  to be that Mr A doesnt think its fair for the television to 
be taken away (for inspection and repair) without a replacement being  provided.  Mr A says 
the CRA  applies.  It says: 
If the consumer requires the trader  to repair or replace the goods, the trader  must  
a-Do so within a reasonable  time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer; and
b-Bear any costs incurred 
It goes on to say:
Any question as to what is a reasonable time or significant inconvenience  is to be 
determined taking account of  
a-The nature  of the goods, and
b-The purpose for which the goods  were acquired. 
In response to the investigator Mr A explained  that the purpose of the goods  is to provide a    
high quality visual amenity and access to media.  Mr A feels that to be deprived  of the 
television represents significant inconvenience so taking the television away  to inspect or  
repair arent suitable options. 
Ive thought about Mr A comments and everything  hes told us about the impact of not 
having a television  for a period of time.  Whilst I dont  doubt that the absence  of the television 
and services it provides  would be inconvenient, I dont agree it would be significantly 
inconvenient. And thats the test set out within the CRA. Taking into account  the nature  of 
the item and its purpose, Im not persuaded that allowing the merchant to remove  the 
television for inspection  and potential repair is a significant inconvenience. 
In addition, I note that Mr A says the television would be absent for an indeterminate  amount  
of time. But I dont think that means the situation would cause him significant inconvenience 
either. I have  no reason  to doubt that the merchant would check the item and decide  how to 
proceed within a reasonable period of time. 
In this case, Mr A asked  Amex to undertake a Section 75 claim but it was declined  as the 
merchant wasnt able to inspect the television or attempt a repair.  Whilst I note everything 
Mr A says,  for the reasons Ive given above,  Im not persuaded that the Section 75 claim was 
unfairly declined.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN25078863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2507886