K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1992. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. To keep things  simple in my decision, Ill just say FICL when Im referring  to the PPI 
seller or to FICL.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mrs L disagreed with these findings. She has commented that she never chose  to take out 
insurance on any borrowings such as loans or mortgages. Mrs L has also said that she did 
not have any documents  about the PPI, and that when she saw it on her card statements,  
she understood that this was something that had to be on the card.  She says that she would 
never have  taken PPI out over the telephone.  Mrs L has explained that she does not run up 
large debts,  and that most months she would pay off her card balance as she does not 
believe in taking on debts  she cant pay off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint for the following  reasons:
 Mrs L has stated that she did not know that PPI had been  added to her account. FICLs 
records indicate  that the policy  was sold to Mrs L during a telephone  call in 1992. It has 
not been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script that would have 
been used at this time, but I dont  find that surprising, given that the sale took place 
over 25 years ago. Mrs L says that she would not have  taken out PPI over the 
telephone. However,  on the balance of evidence provided and in light of FICLs internal 
records, I consider it more likely than not that the sale was made over the phone.
Mrs L has given her recollections  of how PPI came to be added  to her store card. I 
cant be certain  about  what exactly was discussed when FICL sold the policy over the 
telephone. I am also mindful that with the sale having  occurred so many  years ago, it is 
likely that the details of the discussion that took place might be difficult for Mrs L to 
recall.
The PPI was added several years  after the store card was taken out. On balance  I 
consider this makes  it more likely  that Mrs L would have understood that this was an 
optional product. Taking into account the limited evidence available from the sale, 
overall I consider  it more  likely than not that Mrs L did chose to take out the policy, 
although I can understand why she may not be able to recall this after the numbers of 
years that have passed since  the sale.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
Ref: DRN27705772 It is possible FICL didnt give Mrs L sufficient information about the PPI, as she has 
indicated, to allow her to make an informed  choice about it. However Mrs L doesnt 
appear to have been  affected  by any of the main things  the policy  didnt cover. I 
acknowledge Mrs Ls comments about her approach to debt, and that she generally 
pays off her monthly  card balance. However, based on her circumstances, even taking 
into account her means available to help cover card repayments, it looks like the policy  
could have been  useful to her. On balance my view is that better information would not 
have led Mrs L to decide  not to take out the policy.  
Although I appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion on balance 
is that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2770577