K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to 
his boiler insurance  policy. 
background
Mr Cs policy  with British Gas includes an annual service  of his boiler. During the annual  
service in September 2018, the British Gas engineer found  there  was a hole in the heat 
exchanger, which was allowing emissions  to escape. The engineer said the boiler was 
unsafe to use and disconnected it.
Mr C says the engineer  told him the hole must  have  been there for more than a year. She 
only found it as she removed part of the boiler casing while  servicing the boiler but this is not 
always done by British Gas, if everything else is okay. Mr C says if the engineer that carried 
out the service  in 2017 had removed  the casing then corrosion (which later developed into 
the hole) would  have  been spotted and it might at that stage have been repairable.  He would 
not therefore have had to replace  his boiler  and would not have been put at risk from leaking 
carbon monoxide.  
I understand that the heat exchanger was obsolete  and so the boiler  had to be replaced. 
British Gas said although the boiler  was not apparently leaking carbon monoxide,  it was 
immediately dangerous, as this could change at any time. 
British Gas says the hole was found  when the engineer removed a panel of the boiler to 
check the flue. Whilst this is not part of the annual service, British  Gas advises that this is 
good practice for a boiler of this age. British  Gas also suggests that this was done during the 
annual service carried out in July 2017. It says it has spoken to the engineer that did the 
2017 service and she recalls removing the cover above where  the hole was discovered  in 
2018 and that no hole was present. British Gas says the hole must  have developed in the 14 
month period  between  each of the services and it did nothing wrong. British Gas did 
however, offer a refund of one years  premium, of £336.01 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr C disputes this and says his partner who was present during both services, says the 
boiler panels were  not removed in 2017.  Mr C has also made a number of other  submissions 
in support of his complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
British Gass complaints procedure is defective  with no attempt at an independent 
senior review.
The engineer  had no right to disconnect the boiler. The relevant codes of practice are 
clear that this can only be done with the consent  of the householder. His partner was 
present at the time and her consent was not asked for; if it had been, it would have 
been refused,  as there was no proof of any gas leaks. 
If the boiler was not leaking before the service,  it was unlikely to be leaking the day 
after. It was wrong  to say it was immediately dangerous  just because it might  
become dangerous before it could be repaired or replaced.   And as a result  of 
wrongfully capping  off the boiler, he has been  left without a boiler unnecessarily.
The safety check carried  out by British Gas each year is not effective if it doesnt 
routinely check for rust that could lead to a carbon monoxide leak. 
British Gas sales literature says that an annual  service  will "check  your boiler for 
corrosion".  It does  not say engineers will only do this if they find some other problem.
Ref: DRN24242572He is also concerned for other  customers that British Gas's procedures do not 
reliably match the claim on which British Gas sells insurance. The procedures or the
insurance policy should be changed.
If the 2017 service  had been  carried out in accordance with the policy  terms, British  
Gas would have  detected rust then. It is not possible that such  a large hole could 
have developed to the extent it had in 2018  earlier, with no visible sign of 
deterioration in 2017. 
British Gas management's  guess as to when  the rust broke surface is not more  
reliable that the opinion  of the engineer who found the hole and others  independent 
of British Gas, who all think  its unlikely  it wasnt visible in 2017.
British Gas has still not tested the emissions  from the boiler, so cant say if it was 
operating safely. If it was unsafe and therefore it was right to disconnect  the boiler, 
then his complaint  stands. If in fact it was still operating safely, it did not need to be 
disconnected. British Gas should not have said it was leaking carbon monoxide 
without proof.
Theres no contemporaneous  record such  as a computer checklist  for the service, to 
show that the top cover was taken off during  the 2017 service. His partner says it 
wasnt taken off, the engineer says she did. However, the engineer also said "as 
there was no issue with the emissions test, no further checks were carried  out", 
implying that she didn't take the top cover  off. This is more  credible as it matches  the 
statements of British  Gas management. It was only when asked a second time about  
two weeks later, presumably knowing of the complaint, that she said she took the top 
cover off.
Mr C says he was without  a working boiler  for almost a year. When the boiler was 
disconnected, he bought  electric fires (it's a 3 storey house), boiled kettles, and went out for 
baths and showers. Mr C says he tried to get the boiler repaired but couldn't find the 
necessary part, new or second hand. He says he then tried to have it replaced in the same 
space, but couldn't. The boiler  had been  positioned  on the floor but current  equivalents are 
wall mounted  and smaller.  Mr C says he therefore  needed to have  new piping installed, a 
new hole in the outside wall and new floor covering  where  the old one stood.
Mr C says he was without  the boiler for around  30 weeks and then decided  to wait longer 
before replacing  it, so that he could combine the installation of the new boiler  with some 
other plumbing work, including flushing the radiators.
Mr C wants serious  compensation and for British Gas to make changes in either  the 
insurance policy or the procedures under that policy to make them more consistent, and 
improvements in handling complaints.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt consider that the complaint should  
be upheld as he was satisfied that British  Gas had acted reasonably. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
shutting off the boiler 
Ref: DRN24242573Mr C has referred  to the codes of practice for gas safe engineers, which  says that where  a 
gas engineer works on a boiler they consider is unsafe they should obtain consent  of the 
person responsible to turn it off but has no right to do so without consent. 
Mr C says consent was not sought  and if it was, it would have been refused as there was no 
evidence of carbon  monoxide leaking at the time.  Mr C also feels  very strongly that it was 
wrong to say the boiler was immediately  dangerous, just because it might become 
dangerous before it could be repaired or replaced.
British Gas says Mr Cs partner consented  to the engineer turning off the boiler and if she 
had not done, the engineer would have called the gas supplier to get it disconnected from 
outside the property. 
British Gas has provided a copy of the notice that was left at Mr Cs property, which  says:  
Immediately dangerous: Your appliance or installation  has a fault which puts you and your 
property in danger if you leave it connected  to the gas supply.
A warning label has been attached and the appliance/installation disconnected, if you 
refused disconnection  the Gas Emergency Service has been  notified as they have powers to 
disconnect unsafe  appliances/installations.  
The notice was signed by Mr Cs partner. This would indicate her consent to the boiler being 
turned off at the time. Mr C has suggested  that she had no choice because  of the way it was 
presented to her at the time but I am not persuaded by this.  
I am also not persuaded that it has been established  that this was incorrect  or unreasonable  
action to take. While the boiler was not apparently  leaking any dangerous gases on that day, 
the engineer advised it was immediately dangerous, as the hole could result in carbon  
monoxide leaking at any time. Mr C disputes this but he did have the boiler replaced, rather  
than carry on using  it. Mr C has said he tried to have it repaired, but couldnt because  the 
part wasnt  available but he has not provided anything  from any engineer that said it would 
have been safe to reconnect  the boiler and use it without having  the part replaced. 
As there is no persuasive  equivalent  expert evidence  that British  Gas was incorrect in 
declaring the boiler immediately dangerous, I am not persuaded this was unreasonable.   
annual service 
British Gass policy schedule, sent to Mr C each year said:  Once a year well come round to 
service your gas appliance to make  sure its running safely and efficiently.  
And the policy document says: One of our engineers will visit your home  one a year to 
check that your appliance, boiler or central heating and ventilation  is working  safely and in 
line with relevant laws and regulations. Well also test the gases your appliance and boiler 
produces. If these tests  show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to 
adjust or clean it, well do so. 
British Gas sales literature also says that the annual service will "check  your boiler for 
corrosion". 
Ref: DRN24242574Mr C says the boiler cover would  need to be taken  off in order to check for corrosion and the 
safe working generally of the boiler.  
According to the Gas Safe Register an annual service would include a gas safety check  but 
also: a full check of a gas appliance  and the engineer is likely to take the appliance apart  to 
inspect it. The engineer will assess the physical condition of the appliance, installation  
pipework, air vents and any flues for deterioration. They  will carry out performance tests  and 
take any necessary  remedial action. Appliances should be serviced  regularly in accordance  
with manufacturers instructions.
Given this, I agree with Mr C that the cover  should have been removed and the condition of 
the boiler inspected  during each annual service  and not just if gases  could be detected.  
British Gas says it asked the engineer  that carried out the service in 2017 if she took the 
cover off. She apparently said that although it was over 14 months earlier,  she remembered 
the service appointment because Mr Cs boiler is an unusual one. However,  I have not seen 
a written statement  directly from her and, however unusual the boiler,  I think it unlikely shed 
have a clear recollection  of what was done  given  the time since  the service  and the number 
of boiler services she must have carried out in between times. 
So I am prepared  to proceed  on the basis that the engineer did not remove  the cover and 
check the heat exchanger  for corrosion in 2017.  I have to now consider what  the 
consequences of that have been  for Mr C, if any. 
If the engineer had examined the heat exchanger in 2017, it is possible she may have seen 
some signs  of corrosion, or the start of corrosion. Mr C says there would have to have been 
some signs  at that stage,  as the hole could  not have developed  to the size it was within 14 
months. And I note British  Gass engineer that found  the hole in 2018 said it would have 
been there for over a year. So while it is not certain, I think it is likely  there  would have been 
some sign of the start of corrosion at least  in 2017. 
what would  have happened if corrosion had been  identified during the 2017 annual  service?  
I have to now therefore consider what would have happened, if the engineer  had spotted 
signs of corrosion in 2017. 
Mr C says the fact corrosion was not checked  for in 2017 means he was prevented  from 
having a quick repair carried out to his boiler. I am not, however, convinced that it would 
have made  any difference to his position.  
If early signs  of corrosion were seen on the heat exchanger, but the boiler  was still operating  
safely, British Gas would not have been  obliged  to replace the heat exchanger  at that point. 
Ref: DRN24242575But even if British Gas did agree  to cover the replacement,  or Mr C chose to have it replaced 
himself, theres some doubt about whether this would have been possible.  The boiler was 
apparently installed  in 1990.  Mr C has said he has been unable  to find even  a second-hand 
heat exchanger in 2018  to replace his with. Given this, it would seem to me likely there 
would have been similar difficulties  only a year earlier. British  Gass terms mean it will only fit 
new parts  obtained  from reputable suppliers. I have seen no evidence that an area of 
corrosion on such a part could  be repaired,  rather than requiring replacement. 
It seems  to me therefore that it is unlikely  the boiler could have been repaired in 2017, even 
if corrosion was spotted then. Theres no evidence to support that this would have been 
possible. So, the boiler would have still needed to be replaced. And, even if the heat 
exchanger had started to corrode in 2017, there  were no leaking gasses apparently.   
Given this, I do not consider that any of the inconvenience caused by the boiler needing to 
be replaced, including the time Mr C was without a boiler waiting for the new boiler to be 
installed, is solely due to anything done  wrong  by British Gas.  
Overall therefore I consider the offer of compensation made by British  Gas is reasonable to 
reflect any failure  in carrying  out the 2017  annual service. 
Mr C has also said that British Gas should change its annual  service and complaints 
procedures, including  its complaint handling.  Unfortunately, I do not have  the power to make  
British Gas change  its practices or the way it deals with such matters in the future. However, 
we do publish our decisions  and hope  that businesses  learn  from them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as I consider that British Gas Insurance Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of all the circumstances of the complaint. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2424257