K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about the way American  Express Services  Europe  Limited  (Amex) handled 
the problems he had with its credit  card rewards scheme.
background
Mr Z earned  points by spending  on his Amex credit card. These entitled him to benefits,  in 
particular vouchers for nights at hotels owned  by the Starwood group, which merged  with 
Marriott in August  2018.  
Amex is responsible for the credit  card account, but the rewards and benefits are the 
responsibility of Starwood/Marriott and these are provided on a third party  basis. Holders  of 
the Amex card must  also be a member of the Starwood/Marriott loyalty program for the 
Amex points earned to be converted into hotel  vouchers.
Amexs role is to notify the hotel group when the card holder  has spent the qualifying amount 
(25K in this case) in a given year,  but the voucher  provision is then organised and authorised  
by the hotel group in accordance with its own terms and conditions.
Mr Z made a number of calls to Amex  in early 2018  because he believed he should  have 
been awarded two hotel  vouchers, but he hadnt  been. He said hed spent the qualifying 
amount in two consecutive years and so was entitled to the vouchers. Amex provided 
incorrect information about the rewards scheme during at least two of the phone  calls, and 
Mr Z eventually lodged  a formal complaint about  the missing vouchers.
Amex responded  in August 2018. It confirmed the dates  it had issued notification  to Marriott 
of Mr Zs Free Night Awards (21 December 2016  and 16 May 2018), apologised for the 
incorrect information hed been given about the rewards  scheme on the phone  and paid him 
£100 compensation for that, and said it would investigate why notification  of Mr Zs 
qualification for the hotel vouchers had not resulted in those vouchers appearing on his 
Marriott account.
In September  Marriott credited Mr Zs account with 25,000 points and a week  later a further 
10,000 points. In November  it added  a hotel voucher to his account,  equivalent to 35,000  
points.
By December, and having not received the further  promised response  from Amex, despite 
many chaser emails, Mr Z complained to us. He said that he had belatedly  received one of 
the two outstanding vouchers and was still awaiting the other; that the voucher was worth 
less than it would have been  (because  of the merger of the hotel groups) if it had been 
issued on time and that Amex hadnt contacted him as it had promised it would.
In summary,  our adjudicator said that having read the Amex  account terms and conditions it 
was clear that the responsibility for issuing hotel vouchers  rested with Marriott. Amex had 
provided evidence  in the form of screenshots of its notification to Marriott that Mr Z had 
achieved the qualifying spend in each of the two years involved, and the vouchers should 
therefore have  been issued. But responsibility for issuing them rested  with Marriott and 
Amexs terms and conditions explicitly stated that it wasnt  liable for any claims regarding 
any failure or breach with respect  to goods and services provided  as rewards by third 
parties. Marriott was a third party provider in this case and the adjudicator couldnt 
reasonably hold Amex responsible for Marriotts failure to award vouchers to Mr Z.
Ref: DRN26837152The adjudicator also said he couldnt hold Amex responsible for any changes in the voucher 
value following the Starwood/ Marriott merger as Amex had played no role in that.
He concluded  by saying he considered the £100  already paid by Amex to be fair and 
reasonable compensation for having  provided  incorrect information during  two phone calls.
Mr Z was dissatisfied with the adjudicators  findings for a number of reasons, which  in 
summary were as follows: he didnt regard  Marriott as a third party provider  as Amex had 
buried this information in its terms and conditions and the face of the credit card suggested  a 
more equal relationship between the two organisations; Amex hadnt contacted him for 
months despite saying  it would  and we had allowed Amex too long to respond  to our 
information requests.
Mr Z therefore asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In the meantime he contacted Marriott 
himself and has been awarded another free night voucher. He also lodged  a further 
complaint with Amex  about its misleading  information about the status  of Marriott as a third 
party provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart  of Mr Zs complaint is his belief that Amex is responsible  for him not receiving  
his two vouches when he should  have done. But I have seen evidence  that Amex  notified 
Marriott that Mr Z had achieved the qualifying spend in each of the two years.  I am therefore 
satisfied that Amex did all that it was required to do based on the terms and conditions of its 
credit card. It had no responsibility for ensuring that these  notifications were then followed 
through by Marriott and was not responsible for Marriotts failure to do so in a timely manner.
Mr Z has sought  to argue  that Amexs  marketing information (and the credit  card itself) 
mislead customers into believing that Amex is responsible not only for the credit card, but for 
the implementation of the rewards scheme. Mr Z therefore expected  that it would 
automatically fall to Amex  to ensure  that his vouchers appeared on his Marriott account. 
But having  looked at the terms and conditions of the credit card and rewards  scheme,  Im 
afraid I must  disagree with Mr Z. Amexs limited  liability with respect  to third party  reward 
providers is as clearly stated in those documents as other terms and conditions  applicable  to 
the Amex card. And the online card application  process states that applicants  should read a 
number of important  documents,  including the terms and conditions, and provides links to 
them all.
Mr Z believes the fact that Marriott  is a third party provider  in the context of the agreement is 
of such importance  that it should be explicitly spelled out by Amex.  But having  read the 
various documents about the credit card and the hotel groups rewards  scheme it seems to 
me to be sufficiently clear  that Marriott is a third party  provider in this arrangement.
But although  Amex  had no contractual responsibility to pursue Mr Zs missing vouchers, 
given that it had fulfilled its obligations by notifying Marriott of his qualifying spend, it did 
nevertheless say it would  do so.
Ref: DRN26837153Amex replied to Mr Zs complaint in August, and in September  Marriott awarded  him a total 
of 35,000 points, an amount equivalent  to a one night hotel stay. Mr Z has said these points 
were awarded by Marriott for reasons unconnected to this complaint, but although we have 
asked him for further details he hasnt provided  any. And for its part Marriott has told Amex 
that in awarding  the points in September it was effectively giving Mr Z one of the two missing 
vouchers about  which he had complained. It awarded him the second voucher at the end of 
November.
And so by the time Mr Z complained to us in December, as far as Marriott and Amex  were 
concerned hed received both missing hotel  vouchers. I note that Marriott  has since awarded 
Mr Z another  voucher following his pursuit of his complaint with them.
Mr Z has said that this has all taken too long to resolve, and as a result  his vouchers are 
worth less than they might  otherwise have been. But Im afraid I cannot reasonably hold 
Amex responsible for this delay as Im satisfied that it fulfilled its obligations to Mr Z by 
issuing the required  spending notifications to Marriott.
I do however agree  with Mr Z that Amex should have got back  in touch with him as it had 
promised in its August  letter, and it is regrettable  that it did not.
Mr Z has also said that we gave Amex too long to respond to our requests for information  
when he had been put under pressure by us to reply  much more quickly. Mr Z is correct  in 
saying that Amex took longer than we would have liked to reply to our requests. But we 
believe that to be fair to all parties involved we should, within  reason, allow more time for 
relevant information  to be provided if that is needed. And I note that following our 
adjudicators view in March of this year,  Mr Z sent a number of emails objecting to that view 
and explaining in more detail his reasons  for doing  so. I have  read all of those emails and I 
am therefore satisfied  that Mr Z has had every  opportunity to provide all of the information  he 
considers relevant to his complaint. 
Amex has already paid Mr Z £100  compensation for providing poor advice when  he rang 
querying his missing vouchers. And although  I accept that Amex subsequently  failed to 
contact Mr Z following  its written response to his complaint, I consider the £100 already paid 
to be sufficient recompense for this additional  service shortcoming.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683715