K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that DJS (UK) Limited  (trading as Piggybank) gave him unaffordable  payday 
loans and hes unhappy with the offer it made  in settlement of his complaint. He wants  a 
refund of all the interest and charges he paid.
background 
Mr M had seven loans from Piggybank between November 2014 and March  2015. He said 
he was in a desperate financial  situation  and borrowing  increasing  amounts each month  that 
made his position  worse.  
Piggybank made Mr M an offer for loans six and seven. It said a check on his credit file 
would have shown  historic markers that should have been further investigated with him. It 
offered to remove the interest and charges for these two loans, and deduct that paid from 
the principal balance owed. It also offered to remove the loans from Mr Ms credit  file. But 
Mr M wasnt happy with this. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought  
Piggybanks offer for loans six and seven was fair and reasonable as its what wed require if 
the loans were found to be unaffordable.  
The adjudicator thought  Piggybanks affordability  checks went far enough for loans one and 
two, but not thereafter. But she couldnt  say what better checks  would have shown as Mr M 
hadnt provided all his bank statements from the time of the loans. So she couldnt say that 
Piggybank had been wrong to provide loans one to five. 
Mr M replied providing further  bank  statements to cover the period for loans three to five. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms first loan was for £150 (£180.17 with interest). He repaid this and then borrowed 
£250 (£302.21). Two weeks after repaying  this, loan three  was for £300 (£345.60). Then  
loan four was for £350 (£417.20) and loan five for £450 (£540). Loan six was for £750 (to be 
repaid in three monthly  instalments)  and loan seven was for £1,500 (to be repaid in four 
monthly instalments). Mr M didnt make any repayments for loan seven and a balance  
remains outstanding.
Piggybank was required to lend responsibly.  It should have made  checks to make  sure Mr M 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Piggybank had to do.
Piggybank said it asked Mr M for his monthly  income and outgoings for all his loans. He said 
he earned £1,823 and his outgoings for his normal living costs, regular bills and credit  
commitments totalled £1,050. Piggybank  said it also added to Mr Ms outgoings any credit  
owed it saw in his credit file. 
Ref: DRN23716922Piggybank has offered  to refund or remove the interest for loans six and seven, adding 
interest to the refund and removing adverse information about the loans from Mr Ms credit  
file. This is what Id require if I found  the loans  to be unaffordable. I think  Mr M should  repay  
the principal he borrowed  as he had benefit of it. So I wont comment on these loans further.
I agree  with the adjudicator that Piggybanks checks were proportionate and sufficient for 
loans one and two. These were Mr Ms first loans  from Piggybank. It checked his income 
and outgoings  and he looked  to have sufficient disposable income to comfortably repay the 
loans. There were  no prompts for it to make  further  checks. So I cant say that Piggybank 
was wrong to approve these two loans. 
But I also agree  that Piggybank should  have made  better checks  for loans three  to five. Loan 
three was the third in quick succession  for a further  increased amount. I think Piggybank 
should have been prompted  by this, and the further increase for loan four, to also ask Mr M 
about his other short-term  lending to check that he wasnt dependent on this type of 
borrowing. And for loan five, I think Piggybank  should have  looked  closely at Mr Ms finances 
and verified what hed told it about his circumstances. But I cant see that it did this.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank  statements from the time to get this information about his 
finances, but Piggybank could easily have asked Mr M for it. 
From these statements, I cant see that Mr M had any other short-term loans when he asked 
for loans  three and four. So I think  if Piggybank  had made better, as I have, it would  have 
found that Mr M had sufficient disposable income  to repay his loans without further 
borrowing.
Ive also looked  at the bank statements provided  to see what Mr Ms financial circumstances 
were for loan five. 
I can see that hed stated his income  accurately. His outgoings  were  slightly  less than hed 
stated. He was gambling a little, but this wasnt out of control. He took out two other short-
term loans after he took out the loan from Piggybank, so it wouldnt have been aware of this 
if it had made better checks. I think Mr M still had sufficient disposable income  to repay  loan 
five comfortably. 
So I think better checks would have shown that loans  three  to five were affordable for Mr M. 
And so I cant say that it was wrong  for Piggybank to provide loans three to five.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require DJS (UK) Limited  (trading as 
Piggybank) to do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1.Refund the interest and charges Mr M paid for loan six, and waive  those due for loan 
seven, adding interest at 8% simple per annum to this refund from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. This refund should be offset against the capital balance Mr M 
owes for loan seven. 
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Piggybank to withhold  income  tax from that interest. It 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  its taken off if he asks for one.
3.Remove any adverse  information relating to these two loans from Mr Ms credit file. 
Ref: DRN23716923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2371692