K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the quality  of a car he acquired through  a Conditional  Sale Agreement  
with Santander  (UK) plc trading as Santander  Consumer Finance  (SCF).  He would  like to 
reject the car and to get a refund of the money  he has paid
background
Mr M says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement on 22 August 2018 for an eight year 
old vehicle with 83,000 miles on the clock. He says within  28 days the vehicle stopped 
working. And says SCF told him it would collect the vehicle  and, if faulty, he could reject it. 
But he says SCF didnt  do that. It repaired the car instead.
Mr M says he took the vehicle back after the repair but within  a few weeks it stopped  working 
again and was taken in for repair in November 2018. Mr M says hes had to pay for the 
vehicle, tax and insurance when he hasnt  had the use of it. And has incurred public 
transport costs. He says he wants to reject  the vehicle and get a refund of the money he has 
paid as he has lost confidence in SCF.
SCF said it replaced the battery the first time Mr Ms vehicle. When  it broke  down again  on 7 
October 2018 it arranged  independent inspections which were inconclusive due to problems 
starting the vehicle. It then referred the car to a specialist who identified issues with the 
battery, fuel pump  and suspension. As these were  issues  that hadnt  been identified at the 
first repair it felt it had the right to try to repair. It said as the vehicle was successfully  
repaired at no cost to Mr M it didnt feel it could allow rejection of the vehicle. It did 
compensate Mr M by refunding all the monies  he paid whilst the vehicle was being repaired
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-There was no dispute that Mr M had problems with his car shortly after getting  it that 
the first repair didnt work, that after some investigations  a further repair  was carried 
out which, as I understood it, was successful.
-The main issue seemed for me to decide  was if Mr M should  be able to reject  the car 
even though its now been repaired.  And whether the level of compensation SCF has 
paid/agreed to is reasonable.
-Mr M took out a Conditional Sale Agreement  with SCF on 22 August 2018 though he 
told us he didnt  collect the vehicle until 10 September 2018. His vehicle broke down 
on 17 September 2018. Mr M said when he spoke to SCF he was told the vehicle 
would be inspected, but if there was a fault, he could  reject  the vehicle. 
-The customer notes at the time stated Mr M said there were faults and a problem 
with the gearbox. He was advised  to contact the dealer first but if he had no success 
he could refer back to SCF who would log a complaint. The note went onto say 
looking to reject on grounds of faulty.  That implied to me that at that stage Mr M 
wanted to reject  the vehicle if there  was a problem.  And as the problems arose  
within the first 30 days of having  the vehicle Mr M was entitled to do so.
-It seemed SCF repaired the vehicle.  I had no evidence  from the customer notes to 
say if Mr M agreed to this or not.  However  a repair didnt  seem unreasonable given 
Ref: DRN21010132we expect vehicles  to be fit for purpose  at the point of sale.  Depending on the 
circumstances we would usually feel its reasonable to allow  one attempt at repair. 
But that didnt  take away Mr Ms right, under a conditional sale agreement, to reject  
the car within the first 30 days.
-At the first repair only the battery was replaced but nothing else was done.
-Mr Ms car broke down again  on 10 October 2018 despite  being repaired once 
already. I saw from the customer notes that on 10 October  2018 Mr M again said he 
wanted to reject  the vehicle.
-SCF arranged for the vehicle to be inspected. Unfortunately due, it seems,  to a flat 
battery a full report couldnt be completed as the gearbox couldnt  be fully inspected. 
A second inspection  was no more successful as a start pack couldnt  get the vehicle 
to work.
-Finally a specialist was able to inspect the car. It found the main battery was weak  
and needed replacing,  as did the high pressure fuel pump. And there was wear  and 
tear on the suspension arms. It didnt find any issue with the gearbox.
-SCF felt a the faults identified by the specialist were different to the initial problem Mr 
M had that it was still entitled to have one opportunity to repair these which  it 
subsequently did. And as the vehicle is now working  it didnt feel rejection was 
reasonable. With the exception of the battery  which I understood had been 
replaced at the first repair  I agreed that the fuel pump and suspension issues  
werent issues identified  during  the first repair.
-But it seemed to me that Mr M reported  the same issue twice   the vehicle kept on 
stopping. And both break downs occurred  so close to each other - on 17 September 
2018 and 7 October 2018.  So in the absence of any information  to the contrary I 
thought it reasonable to conclude that the problem with the fuel tank and suspension 
were present but not picked up when  the battery  issue was addressed.  And when 
problems arise  within the first six months its up to the business to show any problem 
wasnt present or developing  at the point  of sale.
-Had the issues with the fuel tank and suspension been identified  and addressed the 
first time the car was repaired  then Mr M might not have  had the inconvenience  of a 
second breakdown which resulted in him being  without his car for four months. I 
didnt think the first repair was successful  and on that basis  I thought Mr M should  
have been allowed  to reject the car the second time it broke down.
-I didnt think it was reasonable for Mr M to have a full refund of all of the money he 
had paid as he wanted.  As I understand it SCF refunded his payments for the time 
he was without a car which I felt was fair. Outside  of that timeframe Mr M has had 
use of the car. 
-I agreed with our investigator that some  compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience was reasonable.  SCF agreed to pay the £150  our investigator 
recommended which  I thought  was fair.
-A fair resolution was for SCF to take back  the car at no cost to Mr M, to end the 
finance agreement  ensuring the agreement was shown as settled on Mr Ms credit 
Ref: DRN21010133file, refund any deposit Mr M paid with 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement and to pay £150  for distress and inconvenience.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both SCF and Mr M have responded to my provisional decision.
SCF has said it has no further information to provide.  So has accepted  my provisional 
decision on the basis without further  input by itself my decision is unlikely to change.
Mr M has said that the car was faulty from the beginning and he would like his money  back 
and to return the car.
In my provisional decision I said I didnt think it was reasonable  to refund all of the payments 
Mr M had made. This was on the basis that SCF had refunded his monthly payments for the 
time he was without his car. And outside  of that timeframe Mr M did have use of the car.
As Mr M hasnt given me any further information to consider  other than saying he would 
like a refund  of the money he has paid - I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Santander (UK) plc trading as Santander  Consumer Finance 
should:-
-Take back the car at no cost to Mr M.
-End the finance  agreement and ensure the agreement is shown as settled on Mr Ms 
credit file.
-Refund any deposit Mr M paid with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
-Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2101013