K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs unhappy that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has declined  to deal with 
his claim under a motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr G was driving his car in a storm with heavy rainfall. His car unexpectedly hit an area of 
deep water  in the road. It was flooded  and subsequently written  off.
AA Underwriting investigated Mr Gs claim and declined to deal with it saying hed breached  
the policy terms and conditions which say he must take all reasonable steps to protect the 
car from loss or damage. Here it says hed known  there was heavy rainfall  and there was a 
road sign warning drivers  that the road was prone to flooding.  There  was surface  water  on 
the roads leading  to the flooding. Mr G was travelling at 20mph and didnt  brake upon hitting 
the deeper water. The road was also wide enough to turn around in and he was aware of 
another route home.  AA Underwriting said it couldnt accept Mr G had taken reasonable 
steps to protect  his vehicle in accordance with the policy terms. And as hed breached  the 
policy terms it cannot therefore indemnify him for his loss.
Mr G didnt agree. In summary he said hed fulfilled the policy  condition.  He had his children 
in the car and whilst  he was aware of the heavy rainfall it wasnt dangerous to drive.  He 
wouldnt have put them at risk. He wasnt aware of the warning road sign.  At the time 
visibility was poor and he was concentrating on the road. Due to the surface  water  and 
conditions he was driving at a reduced speed of 20mph which  he felt was an appropriate and 
safe speed for negotiating  an inch of surface  water. He was completely unaware of the depth 
of water that had gathered in the dip under this bridge. The waters depth suddenly  
increased from 1 to 12 inches. He had no chance  to brake  before  the car cut out. He had no 
reason to turn around. Mr G wants AA Underwriting to deal with his claim.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt his complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said AA Underwritings 
investigation report says there were  warning signs in both directions saying the road was 
liable to flooding.  Mr G says he didnt see a sign because of poor visibility but one wouldve 
been visible on his earlier journey in the opposite direction. The damage  to Mr Gs car 
couldve been avoided.  As he knew there was water on the road,  it had been raining heavily 
and hed passed a sign stating the road was liable to flooding Mr G hadnt taken all 
reasonable steps to protect his car. And he said he cant ask AA Underwriting to deal with 
the claim.  
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review. In summary he said he wasnt  
negligent or reckless.  He was aware of the heavy rain but it wasnt  unsafe  to drive. 
Mr G also asked to speak  to me. He reiterated  his previous submissions. He highlighted that 
hed no warning that the depth of water  would increase so much or so suddenly as there  
wasnt any edge to the deeper  water. There was some surface water on the roads  and hed 
slowed down as a result. He was driving  at only 20 mph when he hit the deep water. His 
children were in the car and their safety  was paramount.  Hed acted reasonably  and 
responsibly. He said the incident was unfortunate and unavoidable.  He was in the wrong  
place at the wrong time. Mr Gs representative  also said AA Underwriting was wheedling out 
of paying the claim on a technicality. And there  was another  decision from this service, albeit 
Ref: DRN28280812in not exactly  the same  circumstances,  that said a claim should be paid unless the consumer 
had been reckless, which wasnt the case here.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 8 February 2019. In summary, subject to 
any further evidence  and submissions from the parties, I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
Taking everything into account  I felt on balance that Mr G had acted responsibly and hadnt 
been negligent or reckless. I didnt think AA Underwriting  had shown Mr G failed to take all 
reasonable steps to protect his car from damage  or that hed breached the policy  terms 
justifying it declining  to deal with his claim. I thought AA Underwriting  should now deal with 
Mr Gs claim; pay him some interest  and some compensation.
Mr G has accepted my provisional decision and says he has nothing  more to add.
AA Underwriting hasnt  substantively responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA Underwritings policy made clear in its terms and conditions  that, amongst other things, 
Insurance will only apply if  you have taken  all reasonable steps to protect the insured 
car from any loss or damage. And the Product Information document also said What  are 
my obligations? To take all reasonable steps  to protect the car from any loss or damage. 
This term was brought to Mr Gs attention and he accepts it was a condition of his policy.  
So, the question  I must  consider is whether or not Mr G did in fact take all reasonable steps  
to protect  his car and whether AA Underwriting has acted fairly,  reasonably  and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions by declining to deal with his claim.
In this case Mr Gs version of events has been  presented in what  appears to be an honest, 
open and consistent way throughout.  
He says he drove in the opposite direction on the road in question about  one and a half 
hours before the actual incident  occurred. At that earlier time it was drizzling  and there 
wasnt any deep water  on the road. He also says hed only been  on this stretch  of road a 
couple of times before  and it wasnt a road he used regularly. He says the storm intensified  
while he was waiting  for his children and when he drove back  there was heavier rain, 
visibility had decreased  and there was water on the road surfaces. 
Mr G says his childrens  safety was paramount and as result of the poorer visibility and 
water on the road he slowed down to 20 mph which was about half his normal  speed  and 
well below the roads actual speed  limit. He says there was about  1 inch of water on the road 
but he didnt think  it was unsafe  to travel. There was no waters edge or any indication that 
the depth of water in the road ahead would increase suddenly to 12 inches. And when he hit 
this deeper water in a dip in the road he didnt have time to brake before the car cut out.
Ref: DRN28280813AA Underwriting says Mr G shouldve been aware of the risk of flooding from the warning 
road signs which wouldve  been visible when travelling this stretch of road in either  direction.  
And he shouldve  seen the sign when  travelling through on the road earlier  when conditions  
were better.
Mr G has accepted he didnt see the liable to flooding warning signs. But I think they only 
provided a warning of a possible risk. They didnt identify an actual flood or a risk that would 
definitely exist at any particular time. So, even if Mr G had seen  one of the warning signs Im 
not convinced  on balance that he wouldve, or shouldve, reasonably done any more  than he 
actually did. 
Here Mr G was clearly  taking extra care when driving not least to ensure the safety of his 
children in the car. He was aware  of the storm, the heavy rainfall, poor light and general very 
wet road conditions. As a result I think hed sensibly and reasonably  slowed right down to 20 
mph. There  was also no other traffic  on this stretch  of road which  mightve alerted him to the 
deep water  ahead and he says there was no edge  to or other indication of the area of 
deeper water. As such he says, and I accept, that he didnt reasonably know of the actual 
risk ahead. 
Although the policy term says Mr G must take all reasonable steps  to protect  his car I dont 
think this can fairly  mean he must take all possible measures to avoid damage that he 
himself couldnt reasonably or didnt actually  foresee.  
In this case taking  everything into account I agree with Mr G that he acted responsibly  by 
reducing his speed to reflect the poor light, visibility  and wet road conditions. I think he was 
reasonably aware  of the potential risks he faced given the general conditions. 
And I dont  think theres anything to suggest Mr G was negligent or reckless by proceeding 
and continuing  to drive as he did. I dont  think on balance that he continued driving after he 
shouldve recognised there was an actual deep water risk ahead of him or that after Mr G 
recognised such  an actual risk he ignored it, deliberately courted it or disregarded the cars  
safety. And I think he reasonably saw no reason to stop, turn around or use another route 
home as AA Underwriting suggests he shouldve.
Consequently I dont think AA Underwriting has actually shown that Mr G failed to take all 
reasonable steps to protect his car from damage  or that hes breached the policy terms 
justifying it declining  to deal with his claim as its done.
Overall I think  its fair and reasonable for AA Underwriting  to now deal with Mr Gs claim 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should also pay him interest on 
the amount it pays him.
Its also clear  that Mr G has experienced considerable  additional  distress  and inconvenience, 
over and above that which  any consumer experiences in dealing  with a similar claim, as a 
result of the way AA Underwriting  has declined this claim. I think its reasonable for Mr G to 
be compensated for this. Considering everything, including  the level of awards we make, I 
think a payment of £250 compensation for this is fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I think AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should now:
Ref: DRN282808141.Deal with Mr Gs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
including excesses  and limits; 
2.Pay simple  interest at the rate of 8% a year* on the settlement  payment it makes from 
the date of the loss until the date it pays it; and
3.Pay Mr G £250 compensation.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires AA Underwriting  to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2828081