K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wrongly declined to refund the VAT he paid on 
a repair  to his van when he made  a claim on his commercial motor vehicle policy. Mr B is 
represented by his accountant, Mr C.
background
Mr Bs van was damaged  in an accident.  As hes VAT registered,  he paid Avivas garage  the 
VAT it charged on its repair bill. He intended  to reclaim it from HMRC as usual, but his 
accountant then told him that as he was now on a flat rate VAT scheme,  he couldnt do that. 
Mr C thought Aviva should refund the VAT to Mr B and claim it back from HMRC. He said 
the purpose of insurance was to put Mr B back in the position  he was in before the accident.
Aviva noted  that on the flat rate VAT scheme,  the VAT paid on goods and services (including 
repairs) couldnt be claimed back.  It said those on the scheme had the incentive of not 
having to pay all their profit-made VAT to HMRC. It said that was meant  to balance out their 
inability to claim VAT refunds. Aviva thought it had correctly instructed the garage  to charge 
Mr B the VAT, and it thought there  was no reason for it to refund the sum to him.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Bs complaint. He thought  Aviva had acted fairly and 
reasonably, so he didnt ask it to take any action.  Mr C asked for a review  of Mr Bs  
complaint by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Mr C says Mr B may get a small financial benefit  from a taxation point of view by being on 
the flat rate scheme.  But in his opinion, thats not relevant to the insurance position. He says 
as Mr B cant  claim back the VAT on the repairs, hes in the same  position as a non VAT-
registered trader. So he thinks Aviva should pay the VAT, just as it does for those traders, 
and claim it back  from HMRC. Mr C says there  would be no extra  cost to Aviva in doing that.
In my opinion, Mr B isnt in the same  position  as a non VAT-registered trader. Ive listened  to 
a call where Mr C discussed the situation with one of Avivas advisors. She said Aviva can 
only refund  VAT and reclaim it from HMRC  if a trader isnt VAT registered. All traders who 
are registered for VAT (flat rate or not) have to pay VAT on goods and services. Normally  
they can claim it back. The advisor said as Mr B paid a lesser  sum on profits to HMRC on 
the flat rate scheme  he couldnt claim VAT back, so it was a cost for him to bear. She said 
Aviva couldnt pay the VAT and reclaim it as Mr B wasnt  a non VAT-registered trader. 
As I understand it, Mr B has benefits  on the flat rate scheme that those not on it dont have. 
It seems  the intention is that it should  all balance out during the year.  Aviva doesnt  reclaim 
VAT for VAT-registered traders as thats not part of its role. And as far as I can see, it 
wouldnt be able to reclaim the VAT from HMRC  for Mr Bs repairs - even if it thought that 
was appropriate.  It appears that Mr Bs flat rate arrangement  with HMRC would prevent it. 
It seems  Mr B wasnt  aware  initially that he was on the flat rate scheme,  or about what  would 
happen in terms  of the VAT payable on repair costs  should  his van be damaged. So I 
understand why he was surprised and unhappy to be left out of pocket. But in my view, by 
Ref: DRN29222102paying for the repairs, Aviva put Mr B back in the position he was in before the accident - to 
the extent that it was able to do. I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances here 
for it not to refund Mr B for the VAT on the repair costs, so I cant  uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2922210