K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that a member of staff at Santander UK Plc was rude to him when 
answering his call about a direct  debit showing on his credit card statement.
background
Mr B called Santanders credit card customer services in December 18 to query a direct  
debit on his statement  for £9.89.
Initially the call handler was struggling  to find the payment that Mr B was referring to. Then 
the direct  debit for £9.89 was found and Mr B said the £9.89 thats what Im questioning 
and the Santander member  of staff said ok, why do you question the £9.89 that was taken?
After this the member  of staff explained  why the direct debit was for £9.89 and Mr B 
appeared happy with the explanation. As the call was ending, Mr B asked the member of 
staff why she had asked him why he was questioning the direct  debit. Mr B said he was 
allowed to question this and wasnt happy that shed asked why. The member  of staff 
apologised a number  of times  and explained  that she hadnt meant to cause offence. She 
was just asking  what the question was, as it was recorded on the statement as a direct debit. 
She offered to put Mr B through to the complaints  department but Mr B declined  to do that. 
Mr Bs told us this was because he didnt want  to do this at that point as he had to go to 
work. 
Later Mr B complained to Santander  that the member of staff had been rude to him. Mr B 
said he wanted the member of staff to be spoken to and given feedback. Santander 
responded to say that it had listened  to the call and it didnt agree that the member of staff 
had been rude to him. And so wouldnt be giving feedback to the member of staff.  However,  
it offered him £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this and wasnt happy that Santander  didnt  agree the member  of 
staff had been rude. Mr B said he wanted  feedback to be given to the manager of the 
member of staff. Santander responded to say that its view hadnt  changed  and it felt the 
member of staff had been professional  and courteous in the way she handled the call. 
After more correspondence back and forth, Mr B remained unhappy and wanted  to know 
what Santander had meant by its previous  offer in its last bit of correspondence.  However,  
Santander had said it wouldnt enter  into anymore discussion over the matter  and that Mr B 
would have to come to our service if he wished to continue his complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and listened  to the call in question. The view the 
investigator reached was that Santander  didnt  need  to do anymore to resolve  the complaint. 
He felt that the member of staff hadnt  meant to be rude to Mr B. The investigator  also 
explained that the phrase  that Santander had used in one of its letters, were sorry to hear 
that you still dont  accept the resolution previously offered related to the offer it had made 
previously to Mr B of £25 as a gesture of good  will.
Mr B responded to us to say that he wanted  to know whether that was the investigators 
interpretation or what Santander  had said. If it was the investigators interpretation he 
wanted Santanders confirmation  thats what it had meant.
Ref: DRN28232112With regards to the alleged rudeness  in the call, Mr B says he wasnt  happy  that the 
investigator hadnt agreed that the call handler  had been rude.  And Mr B still felt feedback 
should be given  about the member of staff.  Mr B explained this wasnt  about money for him, 
it was about Santanders lack of action. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said this is not about money and I dont  doubt that from reading his submissions. 
However, even if I felt that Santander  shouldve given feedback  to its member of staff and 
taken action, its not the role of this service  to tell Santander how to run its organisation. Our 
role is to consider  if a business has caused a customer a financial loss and whether 
compensation should be awarded for the trouble and upset caused by the business to a 
customer.
Having listened  carefully to the call involved,  I agree with the findings of Santander and our 
investigator, I dont  think the call handler was intentionally rude to Mr B. I think  the call 
handler was friendly,  professional and tried to help Mr B as best as they could in the call. 
And once  she became  aware that Mr B had taken  offence, she apologised a number of 
times.
Mr B took offence because the call handler  asked  ok, why do you question the £9.89 that 
was taken?. After  listening to this, I felt it was clear  that the call handler was simply asking 
what was the nature  of Mr Bs question as she didnt yet understand what  Mr B was 
questioning. The question  was asked in what I believe  to be a polite  and friendly tone and I 
think its intention was to ask for more information rather  than as a statement of why did Mr B 
want to know. Mr B believes it was the latter but its my view that this isnt a fair interpretation  
of what occurred.
So I dont  think that Santander or the call handler is at fault for any trouble and upset that Mr 
B may have suffered.  Santander has paid Mr B £25 as a gesture of goodwill following the 
call but I dont think any award is necessary in the circumstances  and so it follows that I will 
not be upholding Mr Bs case.
I think that Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in the service  that its provided Mr B 
and I agree with it that there  were no grounds to take action with regards to the call handlers  
conduct in the call with Mr B.
Mr B is also unhappy that Santander wouldnt answer what it meant by were sorry to hear 
that you still dont  accept the resolution previously offered in one of its responses to his 
complaint. And said that he would need  to complain to this service. At this point  Santander 
had already corresponded with Mr B a number of times with regards  to his complaint. 
Complaint handling  on its own is not something  within the jurisdiction of this service, so I 
wont be making a finding  on whether or not Santander should have answered this query or 
not.
But I think as our investigator explained to Mr B, its clear that this statement refers  to its offer 
in a previous letter  for £25 as a gesture  of goodwill. Mr B has asked if thats our 
interpretation or whether Santander has specifically confirmed this. Whilst I think  its clear 
what it was referring to, we did get Santanders  confirmation of this. 
Ref: DRN28232113my final decision
For the reasons  explained I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823211