K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt transfer her late 
husbands credit  limit to her after he passed away. 
Background
Mrs Hs late husband had a credit card with Barclaycard. Mrs H was an additional card 
holder and used  the credit  card account.  After Mrs Hs husband passed  away both the credit 
cards were  suspended. 
Mrs H applied for a new credit card in her name and the credit limit was set at £250 which 
was considerably lower  than her late husbands credit limit. Mrs H complained  and in 
August 2018 the credit  limit was increased to £500.  But Barclaycard refused to increase the 
credit limit further. 
There were delays in responding to Mrs Hs complaint and Barclaycard accepted that Mrs H 
had been given some  incorrect information in branch. Barclays credited Mrs Hs credit card 
with £125 and apologised.  
Mrs Hs daughter (Ms H) represents her mother in this matter and referred  the complaint to 
our service.  An investigator looked  at the complaint but thought  Barclaycard had dealt with it 
fairly. Ms H asked to appeal so her mothers complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H is unhappy. She was accustomed to using the credit card held 
in her late husbands name for many  years.  And quite reasonably, Mrs H was of the view 
that the credit card formed part of the household finances. But credit  cards operate  
differently to other  banking facilities and are only held in one name. 
In this case, the original credit card (and its credit limit)  belonged  to Mrs Hs late husband, 
not Mrs H. As an additional card holder,  Mrs H was authorised to use the credit  card but the 
debt and credit card werent hers. That meant  that when  Mrs Hs husband passed away the 
credit card couldnt simply be transferred to her. As a result,  Mrs H had to complete a new 
credit card application which was subject to assessment by Barclaycard. 
As Ive said above,  I completely understand Mrs Hs concern that the credit card facility  
couldnt simply be transferred to her, especially  given the length  of time she used the 
account as an additional card holder. But I havent found anything  to show  Barclaycard acted 
unfairly or made a mistake when  it said Mrs H had to apply  for a new credit card in her 
name. 
Barclaycard initially  approved  a credit limit of £250  but after Mrs H complained it agreed to 
increase the limit to £500. Ms H has asked lots of questions  about how Barclaycard arrived  
at the £500 figure and has pointed to Mrs Hs extensive banking  history with Barclays as well 
as her clean credit file. I note everything  Ms H says, but Barclaycard has explained it uses a 
range of factors to decide whether an application is successful as well as what  credit  limit to 
Ref: DRN20563342approve. Barclaycard says it uses information  from various sources, including an applicants 
credit file, information it knowns about the customer as well as information  it obtains during 
the application. It then assesses everything  to decide what credit limit to approve.  A range of 
factors affect an applicants credit limit. 
I realise Ms H would like a detailed explanation of how the £250 then £500  limits  were  
decided. But thats not something  Id expect Barclaycard to provide. Ultimately,  information 
about a lenders criteria  is commercially sensitive and businesses can decide to keep it 
confidential. In this case, Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Mrs Hs application  
was fairly  considered and approved in line with Barclaycards lending criteria.  I havent seen 
anything to show that Ms Hs gender or age impacted the credit limit decision. 
Barclaycard accepts that Mrs H was told in branch that everything  would remain  the same 
and apologised  for the error. I agree that the branch staff should have told Mrs H that the 
credit card would no longer operate as it had done previously. I can also see there  have 
been some  delays in responding to Mrs Hs queries and complaint. But overall, Im satisfied 
that Barclaycard  has dealt  with Mrs Hs complaint  fairly. Barclaycard  has paid Mrs H £125 
and I think that amount  fairly reflects the impact of its mistakes  and delays  dealing  with the 
complaint. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but I havent  found that Barclaycard has treated her unfairly.  
The original  credit card was in Mrs Hs late husbands name  and couldnt  be transferred to 
her. The new credit  card was subject to assessment and Im satisfied Barclaycard assessed 
it in line with its lending  criteria. I havent  found  anything to show  Mrs H has been treated 
differently to other  Barclaycard  customers. Whilst I can see there have been some service 
issues and branch staff gave some incorrect information, Im satisfied the £125  its paid is 
fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied  Barclaycard has responded to Mrs Hs 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2056334