K820x#14complaint
Mrs V has complained about the offer National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made  in 
relation to her packaged bank account  mis-selling  complaint.  
background
Mrs V complained to NatWest that it mis-sold her a packaged  bank account.  She initially  
opened a fee-free account  with NatWest in 1987.  This was upgraded to an Advantage Gold  
account in April 2002. NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account  so migrated all 
accounts, including Mrs Vs, to a Select  Platinum account in July 2015. Mrs V later 
downgraded the account  to a fee free one in June 2016. 
NatWest upheld the complaint and agreed  to give Mrs V a full refund of her account fees. As 
Mrs V had benefitted from a preferential  overdraft rate as a result  of having the packaged 
bank account,  it deducted savings of £88.98  from the total figure. The breakdown  of the 
refund was as follows:
Total packaged account fees minus  the overdraft benefit:  £1948.36
8% simple interest on fees minus 20% tax: £995.10
Total refund: £2943.46
In addition to this, NatWest refunded £65 in lending fees and £75.46  of overdraft interest  that 
was applied as a direct result of the packaged account fees. The refund has already been  
paid to Mrs V. 
Mrs V, via her representative,  Mr V, has complained that NatWests redress  calculation is 
incorrect as they havent  taken into account  the compound interest accrued due to the 
packaged account fee being added to her overdraft. Mr V said that by his calculations Mrs V 
incurred around  £6030.56  in cumulative  packaged  account fees and overdraft interest 
charges. Mr V requested a full account  reconstruction be completed  by NatWest.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and agreed the way in which NatWest had 
calculated the redress was correct and in line with our guidelines. He also let Mr and Mrs V 
know that NatWest had not deducted other savings Mrs V had made relating to loans and 
overdraft fee savings. Mr V said NatWest  had not provided calculations to back  up these 
savings and didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. Because of this, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered this, I think the way in which NatWest has calculated Mrs Vs 
redress is fair and in line with what I would expect.  I know  this isnt the outcome Mrs V was 
hoping for and I hope my explanation will help her understand how Ive come to this 
conclusion. 
Typically, where a business  has mis-sold  a packaged  bank  account  we usually instruct it to 
refund all of the account fees paid and add 8% simple interest  to compensate  the consumer 
for not having  access to this money. Mrs V doesnt feel this method puts her back  into the 
Ref: DRN20862152position she wouldve  been in had she not been sold the packaged account. And that an 
account reconstruction would correct the effect  of the compound interest the cumulative 
account fees have had on her account when it was in its overdraft. 
Looking at Mrs Vs account, she managed it on a day-to-day basis. On any given moment, 
her balance was shaped by hundreds of individual transactions and decisions. Because  of 
this, its difficult for me to say an amount equal to the account fee wouldve still been in     
Mrs Vs account had the sale of the packaged account not taken place. For example, I cant  
safely say Mrs V wouldnt have spent the amount  of the account  fee on other things  had she 
not had the packaged  account. In addition  to this, the sheer  amount of transactions  over the 
period Mrs V held the packaged  account  makes a full account reconstruction 
disproportionate in the circumstances. 
One of the benefits of the Advantage Gold account was up to a 1% discount on personal 
loan rates. NatWest  has estimated that Mrs V saved a total of £834  over two personal loans 
she took out in 2002  and 2005. Its estimated this by comparing the standard  loan rate to the 
flat rates  provided  by the Advantage Gold account for that time period. NatWest  has chosen 
not to deduct these  savings from the total redress it paid to Mrs V. Another benefit  of the 
Advantage Gold account was that the £6 arranged overdraft fee was waived meaning  Mrs V 
saved £174. NatWest has also chosen not to deduct this from the total redress  as it usually 
would. 
As part of the redress, NatWest refunded  the lending fees and overdraft interest that had  
been debited from Mrs Vs account  as a direct result  of the packaged account fees. In 
December 2010,  the specific packaged account  fee caused Mrs Vs account  to go over the 
overdraft limit. Because of this, NatWest  has refunded all of the account charges and debit 
interest added  to the account over the next two months. This totalled  £65 in charges and 
£75.46 in interest. And I think this is fair in the circumstances.
I think that what NatWest has already done to put things right is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case and is in line with what I wouldve recommended. 
I appreciate that Mrs V may be disappointed  by this. And I can see that her representative  
has gone to some length to calculate  how much  he thinks she should be refunded.  But I 
hope Mrs V will understand the reasons for my decision.
my final decision
I think that the refund previously made by National Westminster Bank Plc is fair in the 
circumstances, so I dont  think  it needs to do anything further to put matters right in this 
case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20862153
Ref: DRN2086215