K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2008. Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr B says that he thought he had to take out he PPI, and that he didnt need the policy.  I 
wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said,  and Mr B hasnt said much  about 
how he was led to think this. So I have to base my decision  on the information I do have. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr Bs loan application  I can see on this that PPI is 
set out as a separate,  optional product,  and Mr B has signed to say that he wanted to 
take it out. This is separate to his signature for the loan. So taking everything  in to 
account, I think Nationwide made  it clear  that Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant  remember this.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what theyve said about  having PPI 
on a credit card with Nationwide he didnt know about, and also another loan with 
Nationwide where  his complaint about PPI was upheld. But each  case is looked at 
individually  and Im only considering what happened with the loan taken in 2008. So this 
point doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN25690462what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr B any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr B the extra he paid each  month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr B paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2569046