K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (Barclays) gave  him two loans that were  unaffordable.
background
Mr B took out two loans with Barclays in April 2015 and February 2016. Both loans were 
taken out in two different shops for different products. The first loan was for £668  and was 
repaid over two years and the second loan was for £684 and repaid over a year. Mr B says 
both loans were unaffordable and not suitable  for him. He says he was in financial difficulties 
and would like compensation for whats happened.
Barclays says both loans  were repaid as agreed  and that Mr B missed one payment on both 
loans that he told it about and explained  the problem. It says Mr B had an income  at the time 
of the loans of £22,500  and was in employment and that the loans were  affordable  and 
assessed.
Mr B had brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator  
thought the second  loan was interest  and charge free and that Mr B had repaid  both loans 
as agreed. The investigator thought the loan amounts were not particularly high and that Mr 
B was in employment.  He also thought that whilst Mr B did have evidence of payday lending 
on his credit file, he still managed his loan accounts appropriately and there was no 
evidence that the loans  were unaffordable.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons.
Im satisfied that Mr B took out these loans in the two different shops he bought the items 
from. I can see at the time Mr B was in employment and earning over £22,500  and that the 
loan amounts were  both relatively small in comparison to his income. I can also see from Mr 
Bs credit file that his credit score  is high and that there is nothing to suggest on the credit file 
that Barclays lending  was unaffordable.
Im satisfied that Mr B repaid both loan as agreed  within the time periods which again leads 
me to conclude on balance that the lending was affordable. I appreciate  Mr B was using 
payday lenders  in the past but I cant see that he was unable to repay those loans either.
Overall for the reasons  I have explained Im satisfied  Barclays carried  out reasonable credit  
checks and that the lending  here was affordable. For those reasons I cant  fairly  order  
Barclays to pay compensation as Mr B would like.
Ref: DRN23169012my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316901