K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C has complained that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos)
reversed a payment  into her store card account.
Background
Mrs C said she bought  an item for £450  from Argos in February 2015 on behalf of a friend,  
using her store card. The payment fell due in August 2015. She was abroad at the time so 
she asked the friend  to make the payment, as it was their item anyway. She said her friend 
made the payment the same month.
Three years  later, in April 2018, a customer contacted Argos  to find out what  had happened 
to their payments because they couldnt see them on their account. Argos investigated  their 
complaint. It transpired that the customer had entered Mrs Cs account  number  when 
making the payments, with the result that their payments had been paid into Mrs Cs 
account, in error, instead of their own.
Argos moved the payments from Mrs Cs account to the other customers  account. 
In the process, Argos also reversed the payment of £420, which  was made  in August 2015. 
This correction left Mrs C with a larger debt on her account.
Mrs C agreed  with the reversal of the four payments made in 2018. However, she objected
to the reversal of the 2015 payment, which she said was a genuine payment by a friend,  
who had asked her to buy an item from Argos.
She asked  Argos to refund the payment.
Argos refused to refund the payment. It said the payment was made  in error but it invited 
her to send in proof from her friend that it was a genuine payment. It said her friend  could 
send in a bank statement, showing the payment.
Mrs C replied that the friend  had changed banks and no longer had any statements dating 
back to 2015. She couldnt provide any proof that the 2015  payment was genuine, so 
Argos didnt refund her.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair so she asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it. He said Argos  only said it 
looked like it had been made  error. He concluded  that it had reached this view after finding 
that the 2018 payments  were made  in error.  However, there was nothing  suspicious or 
erroneous about  the 2015 payment. Mrs C had explained shed asked a friend to make  it 
and that was why a third party had used her account number.
Argos didnt agree with the investigators view.  It provided further evidence  confirming  that 
the third party,  who had made the 2018  payments,  had also made the 2015 payment. 
The case  came to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
Provisional Decision
Ref: DRN23275912Originally, I issued a provisional decision.  I didnt consider  that Argos  had made  any errors 
because it was obliged  to take reasonable steps to investigate and refund any payments, 
which were made in error.
I invited representations from Mrs C and Argos.
Mrs C disagreed with my provisional  decision. 
She replied  that her friend had tried speaking to Argos but it wouldnt discuss the complaint 
because they were not the accountholder.  She also raised a number  of questions about  the 
2015 order, which she said Argos didnt answer.
I asked Argos about the friends attempts to speak to it. I also asked more questions  about 
the third partys complaint and the 2015  order. However, Argos couldnt provide the 
information, which I requested.
This case has now come back to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the comments, which  both 
parties have made since I issued  my provisional decision.
Having done so, Im not satisfied Argos carried out sufficient  enquiries before removing the 
funds from Mrs Cs account and so I think it should refund the £420 to Mrs Cs account. Ive 
already told Argos that I was considering  a different  outcome. Ill explain in detail why Ive 
reached this conclusion. 
Argos cant show that the third party complained about the 2015  payment. It said it cant 
provide any correspondence from the third party or confirmation that they requested for the 
payment in 2015 to be reversed. It looks to me, therefore, as if Argos  made  the link between  
the 2018 and 2015 payments  and reversed the latter  payment on its own initiative, before 
checking the situation with Mrs C and the third party.
Also, it cant  confirm if:
it received an order from the third party in 2015
delivered any goods to the third partys address in 2015
whether the third party had an account  with it in 2015
whether it asked the third party about any goods  ordered in 2015,  or 
if it asked the third party why they didnt raise a complaint earlier.
Argos admitted the £420 might have been a genuine payment and I think  it was quick  to 
reverse it. I think it would have been reasonable to ring-fence the funds while making 
enquiries but it didnt  do this. And it didnt make  the enquiries.
Argos relies heavily on the fact that the third party didnt  return  the payment. But I think  this 
is hardly surprising, after having received a refund. The third party  has nothing to lose.  
Besides, this isnt an admission that the payment was made in error  not without proof that 
the third party  had an account  and placed  an order from that account.
Ref: DRN23275913Im satisfied that Mrs C made  a genuine payment for an order  placed from her account in 
2015. I cant see any reason why Mrs C, who has been a customer for at least 5 years, 
would fabricate a story. And I think the fact that the third party  entered  Mrs Cs account 
number in 2018 lends weight to her version  of events. I think shes the innocent party here.
On balance, considering everything, Im not satisfied that Argos  can demonstrate it had any 
reasons to reverse the 2015 payment. It admits it cant confirm it had received a complaint 
about it. I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Argos to refund the £420, together  with 
interest at 8% simple  per annum.
My final decision
My final decision is Im upholding this complaint. 
Im asking Home Retail Group  Card  Services Limited (trading as Argos) to:
refund  £450  to Mrs Cs store card
pay interest at 8% simple  per annum from the date the payment was reversed to the 
date of the refund
remove any adverse entries in Mrs Cs credit  file relating to this payment
pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs C in bringing this complaint and by 
any adverse information in her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2327591