K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with an Evans  store card 
she took out in 1998. The credit facility was provided  by a high street bank, but a company 
called Financial Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering Mrs Cs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve havent had responses  from either  
party in this case. So theres  no reason for me to change the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. And dont require Financial Insurance Company Limited to 
pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29228662summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  with an Evans store  card she took 
out in 1998. The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but a company called Financial 
Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering  Mrs Cs complaint.  
Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The card was taken out in a store setting and obtained  by filling out an application leaflet.  PPI was 
added on to the card and Mrs C says she doesnt remember ever agreeing to it.
Our adjudicator assessed  this complaint and provided a view that it should  be upheld.  FICL disagreed  
and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im not currently intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Im sorry  to disappoint her.
The first thing Id like to say is that I certainly dont doubt Mrs C now honestly and genuinely believes 
the PPI was mis-sold  to her. But weve seen  a number  of very similar  sales to this one and weve 
spoken at length to the company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were  
generally used. So we now know consumers  were  asked  to fill out a form which  was part of a wider  
leaflet-based application.  The terms and conditions  of the PPI were  included in what  the applicant 
was given  to complete.  
I was sent the agreement Mrs C filled out when  she took out the card and PPI. I can see there was a 
section on the application  leaflet  about PPI. This invited  her to either  sign her name inside - or leave 
blank - an option box to have the PPI cover. 
Mrs C signed at this point  so I think  this suggests that she did want PPI when she applied for her 
card. She also signed  elsewhere on the form to agree to the credit conditions. Because  I also think 
she wouldve  had access to the terms and conditions as Ive described above,  I think she consented 
to the PPI. She would have  been equally free to not have  signed the section asking for the PPI. 
FICL therefore got Mrs Cs agreement to add this cover.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  information  for 
Mrs C to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I think FICL  could have set out the 
information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall I do think  Mrs C had access  to 
enough information to allow her to make an informed  decision. 
Our adjudicator thought a medical condition  Mrs C had at the time of the sale may have made  
claiming on the policy  difficult. This is because the policy contained  certain rules about pre-existing 
conditions and we do sometimes see situations where  claims get rejected because the consumer 
already had the condition when they agreed to buy the cover.
Ref: DRN29228663I certainly wouldnt wish to imply  that the medical condition Mrs C said she had in 1998 wasnt a 
concern for her. But this particular policy only paid out for sickness  after the policy-holder had been off 
ill from work for 30 days. I dont think this medical condition was in that category and so it wouldnt be 
something that Id uphold Mrs Cs complaint on. Put another way, I dont think she wouldve 
envisaged that claiming on the PPI for this particular medical condition was very likely. Obviously if I 
receive comprehensive and verifiable information  that suggests otherwise, Ill consider  that.
I did, however,  look at all the other aspects of the sale very carefully.  She was eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some  of these  policies. The cost of 
the PPI was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example,  if shed become unable  to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve  paid off 
15% of her outstanding store card balance  each month until she returned to work or until all the 
balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been in addition  to any other means Mrs C 
had in place at the time.
I also note Mrs C had some sickness protection with her job of that time, but I dont think this changes 
whether the PPI policy was of use to her either. As Ive said, the decision about PPI was hers to 
make. And I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think  this 
probably explains  why Mrs C chose it on the application form.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint or require 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to do anything. 
I will look at any further comments or submissions before 21 March  2019,  after which Ill make a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN2922866