K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with 
five personal loans between 2007 and 2011.  Mr A says Plane  Saver Credit Union Limited 
(PSCU) mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
Mr A took out PPI with five personal  loans as per the following: 
Loan 1  April 2007
Loan 2  November 2007
Loan 3  December 2008
Loan 4  March 2010
Loan 5  January 2011
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A didnt  agree so the case  has been passed 
to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
To clarify, Mr As employment circumstances remained  the same for all the sales. The PPI 
cover provided accident and sickness cover only. 
Mr A has said he was pushed to take PPI and thought he wouldnt get the loan without the 
insurance. PSCU has said the optional nature of the policy  would have been  clear. Where 
theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my decision on what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened, taking into account  all the evidence that is available.
PSCU has provided  the loan agreements  for all the sales. For Loan 1 and 2, the loan 
agreement says I confirm I would like to take out payment protection insurance and Mr A 
has signed the agreement. As Mr A was taking out additional credit,  I would have expected 
to him and have  read through all the information  on the form and raised  anything  he didnt 
agree with before signing in agreement with it. 
For the other  sales, there is an option  to select or decline PPI in the loan agreements. An X 
has been placed in the yes box for PPI which has been  printed. I think this indicates  that a 
conversation took place  between Mr A and a representative as PSCU and following that 
conversation Mr A decided that he wanted  to take PPI. If Mr A decided that he didnt want  
PPI, he could have  raised  this before  signing in agreement  with it. 
So overall and having taken everything  in to consideration, I think  PSCU made it clear that 
Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this.
Ref: DRN25278592Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what hes said about feeling  pushed 
to take out the PPI. But pressure is a subjective area and what  one person may think  is 
pressure another  may not. So without  stronger evidence of this I cant  fairly uphold  the 
complaint on this basis. 
PSCU didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information PSCU gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr A has said he would have received some sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to 
work. But the PPI would cover his repayments  for up to 24 months per claim if he was too 
sick to work. And this would be in addition to any other pay he would receive. Mr A has said 
his family  couldve helped him if he needed  it. But that depended on his family being able to 
do so when he needed it which wasnt guaranteed. So I still think  the PPI would have been  
useful. And I can see it was as PSCU  has told us that Mr A made  successful claims on the 
policy. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr A paid on his policy   and whether PSCU  treated 
him unfairly.  PSCU has told us that the commission for Mr As policy  was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how PSCU has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr As commission was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell him about  the commission 
 so I dont think  PSCU treated him unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr A back  
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2527859