K821x#15complaint
Miss O has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds  decision to settle  a third 
party claim under her car insurance  policy.
Calpe is the lead insurer and all references  to Calpe in my decision include its agents.
Miss O bought a car insurance policy  with Calpe through a broker.  In September  2016 Calpe 
received a claim from a third party: for personal injury and separately  for vehicle repairs  and 
car hire. The other driver said Miss O overtook  along the right hand side of a queue  of slow 
moving traffic leaving a car park. As she tried to re-join the queue,  the other driver said she 
collided with her car and caused damage.
Calpe wrote to Miss O and asked  her for information about the incident and verification 
documents. It didnt  hear from Miss O within seven  days, and so it said it would cancel her 
policy and would settle the third party claim.
In the meantime Calpe was able to instruct an engineer to inspect  Miss Os car. It also 
instructed an investigator to visit Miss O and interview her.
On 23 September  2016 Calpe received the engineers report. The engineer concluded that 
there were no obvious signs  of damage in keeping  with the third partys claim.  Calpe had 
received a personal injury (PI) claim in September 2016 through  the low value personal 
injury portal (the portal)  from solicitors acting for the third party.  On 26 September  2016  
Calpe responded admitting liability in full - thereby admitting that an accident  occurred, that 
Miss O was responsible for it and that she caused  some loss to the third party.
In October  2016 Miss O was interviewed  by an investigator. She denied liability. Miss O said 
she had turned right into a lane that merged  from two lanes  to one. Shed stopped  to let a car 
out from the right in front of her. Miss O said she was stationary when the third party  collided 
into the left side of her car. The collision happened  at very low speed  due to queuing traffic.
In November 2016 Calpe disputed liability with the third partys representative but only for 
the vehicle damage. The third partys claim was redirected to her insurer. At this stage Calpe  
was of the view that liability could be split 50%/50%.
In January 2017 the third partys insurer said that if Miss O didnt intend to make  a claim for 
repairs to her car, it would  close its file as the third party wasnt  making  a claim for her 
vehicle damage  either.
Miss O didnt  claim for repairs.  Calpe closed  the claim.
In January 2018 the third partys solicitor pursued  the PI claim further  and submitted a 
medical report in support  of the third partys injuries, through  the portal, together with an offer 
of what the third party was prepared to accept for her injuries and other  uninsured losses. 
Calpe negotiated the damages down from the initial claim - but settled the third partys PI 
claim through the portal.
In March 2018 Calpe wrote  to Miss O. It said it had settled the third partys claim and said 
she owed it £3,000 as this was the excess under her policy.  Calpe told Miss O the total claim 
costs came to £3,203.
Ref: DRN26322422Miss O said this was the first time she became aware that Calpe had received a PI claim 
from the third party  and that it had decided to settle it. So she was very shocked to find out 
over a year later that she owed Calpe £3,000. Miss O complained.
In June 2018 Calpe said it had correctly  dealt with the claim. As it decided Miss O was at 
least partially responsible  for the incident, it said it was obliged to reimburse  the third party 
insurer for half of any reasonable costs. However, the breakdown  it gave Miss O was for all 
of the third party costs  and damages   and it included costs for Calpes engineer  and 
investigator costs.
Our adjudicator thought Calpe hadnt  acted reasonably. She recommended Calpe reduce 
the excess amount  it asked Miss O to pay by half of the third partys  claim  costs.  And she 
didnt think it was fair for Calpe to claim its engineer and investigator costs under  the claim 
from Miss O. She thought Calpe had requested these prematurely and unnecessarily.  The 
adjudicator thought Calpe should  pay Miss O £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience for the way it handled  the claim.
Miss O remained unhappy with the way Calpe dealt with the third party claim. Calpe didnt 
agree with the adjudicators view.  
I issued a provisional decision on 13 February  2019.  I thought  Calpes investigation of the 
claim was poor I couldnt conclude  on balance  that if Calpe had properly investigated the 
claim, the outcome would have been different to a shared liability settlement.  And so I 
thought Calpe should reduce the third party costs it asked Miss O to pay by half.
I recommended Calpe increase the compensation it pays Miss O to £500. And I thought it should 
remove the costs it charged her under the excess for the investigator  and engineer  reports. 
Calpe didnt reply  to my view. Miss O has provided further comments. Miss O said she told 
the investigator there was CCTV footage available at the car park  but Calpe didnt follow  
this up. Because Calpe didnt properly investigate  the claim,  Miss O doesnt  feel its fair that 
she should pay anything. Miss O believes  she didnt  cause the incident  and so shouldnt 
be held partially  at fault for it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an 
insurer properly investigated the claim and if its decision was reached in a reasonable way 
and in line with the policy.
Miss Os policy with Calpe  has a very common term which Ive seen in most   if not all car 
insurance policies.  It says Calpe can make  a decision as to how to settle the claim on behalf 
of Miss O. This means that Calpe  may make  a decision  Miss O doesnt  agree with, but the 
policy allows  Calpe to do this. We dont have any objection to this term, in principle, as long 
as insurers treat their customers  fairly and reasonably when they rely on it.
Ref: DRN26322423Calpe admitted liability on the portal on 26 September 2016. It had received the engineers 
report which concluded there was no vehicle damage to Miss Os car to support the third 
partys claim  on 23 September 2016. On 26 September 2016  its claim notes  show  it 
reviewed the engineers  report  and shows the following entries:
no obvious  damage  in keeping with the claim details
allow CNF (Claim Notification Form for PI through the portal) to drop. File requires 
further investigations
confirmed will deal on a WOP (Without Prejudice) basis. (Third party)  Not gone in for 
repairs yet.
So it seems,  at that stage, Calpe considered taking the claim out of the portal process  by 
saying it would allow  the CNF to drop. My understanding is that insurers  might take claims 
out of the portal or allow them to drop out for reasons including to investigate  the claim 
further, in order  to deny liability  or in order to raise causation i.e. that the collision wasnt 
sufficiently strong to have  caused the injuries  claimed. My understanding is that a party  
might argue that there  is no causation if for example the vehicle damage is so minor that it 
suggests that the impact was too minor  to have caused an injury  to either party.
It also seems  that Calpe considered dealing with the claim on a without prejudice  basis  
which means that it would  deal with the third party  claim  but without accepting  fault on 
Miss Os behalf. My understanding  is that insurers may do that if they dont have instructions 
from their insured to admit or deny  liability (accept  or deny  fault). From what Ive seen Calpe 
hadnt spoken to Miss O by 26 September 2016  so I assume  it was considering  dealing  with 
the claim on a without prejudice  basis for that reason.
But despite  having no evidence of any accident related vehicle damage  and so, arguably, 
no evidence of causation  - Calpe didnt drop the claim  out of the portal  despite  the fact this 
was clearly something it had considered. Also despite the fact that it had no instructions from 
Miss O at the time,  it didnt, at least, deal with the third party claim on a without prejudice 
basis thereby giving Miss O the opportunity to bring  her own claim in the future, if she 
wished to. Again it seems  this is also something it had said it would do.
Instead Calpe admitted  liability for the accident on Miss Os behalf.  The response to the CNF 
shows that Calpe accepted that Miss O was responsible for the incident and that she caused 
the third party  some  loss which I understand would  include personal injury (by virtue of the 
fact that it was submitted via the portal). And it didnt  tell Miss O that it had accepted  liability 
for the PI claim. There isnt any explanation  as to why Calpe accepted  liability on 
26 September 2016. As I said above its notes seem to suggest it intended to act differently.
In October  2016 Calpe disputed liability with a separate representative for the third party but 
only in respect of vehicle  repairs  and hire. The third partys claim was redirected to her insurer.
Calpes notes show that in November 2016  it considered settling the claim on a 50/50 
shared liability  basis.  In December 2016  its notes say that it proposed  this as a settlement to 
the third party  insurer.  In January 2017 the third party  insurer  said that the third party wasnt  
going to claim for her vehicle damage - and as Miss O didnt have any accident  related 
damage, the third party insurer closed its file.
Ref: DRN26322424But the third party was pursuing her PI claim  via third party  solicitors.  And as far as I 
understand the fact that her insurer closed its file didnt mean that the PI claim, which was 
still in the portal, had gone away. I think at that stage Calpe still had the opportunity to drop 
the PI claim out of the portal  and I think the fact that the third party decided not to claim for 
any vehicle damage  would arguably have  strengthened any causation arguments.
From what  Ive seen, Calpe, considered this at the time but its not clear  why it didnt defend  
the claim.  Its notes  say that it called the third party solicitors in January 2017 and told them  
that the third party had withdrawn her vehicle damage claim and that the insurer  told it that 
the third party  was considering dropping her PI claim  also.  The notes say that the solicitors  
seemed surprised and that Calpe told them that as a result it will be withdrawing the claim 
and defending any claims for injuries  as a result. Calpes notes show that it would  close its 
file but that causation [was] to be raised if SOT comes back . My understanding is that SOT 
refers to the third party solicitors.
So it seems  to me that Calpes own assessment of the claim was that it was one that should 
be defended in full, despite  previously saying it thought liability should be split on a 50%/50% 
basis. And it seems to me that Calpes  stance changed when it was told that the third party 
wasnt pursuing a vehicle damage  claim.  Had Calpe then dropped  the claim out of the portal 
and defended it in full and raised  causation, like it said it would, I wouldve considered  that to 
be reasonable. But it seems the PI claim  wasnt  defended. I think  it wouldve been  
reasonable for Calpe  to have written  to the solicitors at that stage to confirm  it was defending 
the claim.  But I cant see that it did.
In January 2018, Calpe  received medical  evidence dated October 2016 from the third party 
solicitors via the portal.
Despite previously saying  that it would defend the claim  and raise causation Calpe settled the 
third party PI claim. It negotiated the damages  claim down from £2,800.40 to £1,960.  Part of 
the reasoning  it used  to do this was that it had no evidence of any vehicle damage.  So it 
seems to again appreciate that causation  was an issue. Again, it failed to inform  Miss O.
Calpe said its decision to settle the claim and keep it in the portal was reached reasonably in 
order to avoid expensive  litigation. But this contradicts  what it said in its notes up to the point 
when the medical  report was submitted  to it. I dont think its clearly explained its actions to 
show that it properly  investigated the claim and reached its decision in a fair and reasonable 
way. I dont think its enough to say that its cheaper to deal with a claim through  the portal - 
as this could be said for all claims it receives  this way including  those where  its policyholders 
arent at fault for the accident.
So I dont  think Calpe  was reasonable to Miss O for the way it handled  the third party claim. 
Its possible that if Calpe had handled  the claim differently and defended the claim and 
raised causation,  the third party may not have pursued her claim for PI. But theres no way of 
knowing this now. Because Calpe didnt  drop the claim  out of the portal and consider an 
argument for causation  in 2016, I think this made it more difficult to argue causation  in 
January 2018   because  at that stage it received a medical report where  a medical expert  
supported the fact that the third party was injured in the accident.
Its possible that the third party representative may still have pursued her claim even if Calpe 
had raised causation. And so a possible outcome  is that Calpe  would still have negotiated a 
settlement with some shared liability or by reducing the third party damages in order to avoid 
the claim going to court.
Ref: DRN26322425Miss O was interviewed by an investigator  on 5 October 2016 and it recorded  that Miss O 
told it that CCTV footage  may be available. The investigator attempted to obtain evidence  
but the owner of the footage said the insurer, Calpe would need  to apply for it.
Theres no evidence that Calpe requested CCTV footage. Due to the time thats passed, I 
cant safely conclude the footage would  have been available  to Calpe - and recorded  the 
incident - and that it would  have made a difference to the outcome of the claim. But I 
understand Miss Os frustration and upset. Miss O says the owner of the footage told her 
they keep the footage for at least three months.  
Miss O says her daughter was a passenger in the car and witnessed the incident. But the courts 
wouldnt rely on her account  as it wouldnt  be deemed  as independent. So I can understand why 
the investigator didnt  pursue obtaining  a witness statement from Miss Os daughter. 
I think Calpe  arguably had a strong causation argument, as it itself acknowledges, and failing 
that another  to say that liability shouldve been split. But at the same time it told the third 
party solicitors in January  2017 that it would  defend  the claim - yet they continued to pursue 
their clients  PI claim and produced a medical  report in support  of it. It isnt in dispute that a 
collision took place.  
So on balance, I dont  theres enough for me to change my view from my provisional 
decision. I think both outcomes  remained  equally likely. So I think  the fairest  thing to do is for 
Calpe to reduce  the third party costs and damages  its asked Miss O to pay under the 
excess by 50%.
Calpe instructed an engineer to assess Miss Os car - and an investigator to interview  her  
three days after it received a claim from the third party. These  claim costs  come to £367  
(£72 and £295  respectively).
Miss O didnt  make a claim for repairs to her car. And Calpe didnt  receive a claim  for 
damage to the third partys car. In any event, I think these costs  should form part of Calpes 
business costs  and shouldnt be passed  on to Miss O to pay as part of her excess.
I think Calpes handling of the claim has been poor.  And I think  Calpe has caused  Miss O 
considerable distress  and inconvenience. It failed to fully investigate  the PI claim and acted 
against what its own handlers said at the time (regarding raising  causation  and splitting  
liability). And it failed to tell Miss O that it settled the PI claim without her knowledge and 
didnt do so on a without  prejudice basis. For this I think it should pay Miss O £500  
compensation. This is £400 more than the adjudicator recommended.  Calpe can either make 
a separate compensation  payment to Miss O. Or it can offset the compensation award  
against the reduced excess  sum she owes. 
Calpes breakdown of costs  came to £3,203. After deducting £367, this leaves £2,836 which  
I think Calpe  should reduce by half. This means I think Miss O owes Calpe  a reduced excess  
of £1,418.
Ref: DRN26322426my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Remove the claim costs under the excess its asked Miss O to pay by £367  the costs  
for the engineer and investigator   as these are business costs.
Reduce the third party  total costs and damages under the excess by half from £2,836 
to £1,418.
Either pay Miss O compensation of £500  for the distress and inconvenience its failure 
to investigate the claim has caused  her. Or offset  the £500 against  the reduced  excess 
of £1,418  reducing  it further  to £918.
If Calpe Insurance  Company Limited chooses  to pay Miss O compensation rather  than offset 
it against the reduced excess  costs, it must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632242