K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that an extension that she paid for using a fixed  sum loan agreement  with 
Shawbrook Bank Limited hasnt been completed to an acceptable standard  or built in 
accordance with the order form.
background
Mrs R used a loan agreement with Shawbrook that she signed in June 2017 to pay for an 
extension. She complained to Shawbrook  that the extension  hadnt been completed to an 
acceptable standard or built in accordance with the order form. She says that the internal 
floor in the extension  isnt level with the floor in the house, that the floor isnt 200mm above  
ground-level as stated on the order form and that the finish  to the floor isnt trowel  finish  
concrete as shown  on the order form. Shawbrook contacted the supplier. The supplier  
agreed that the floor of the extension was lower  than the house floor and that it needed to be 
rectified  but it said that it had been trying to arrange that with Mrs R for some time but had 
been refused  access to the site to do the work. The supplier  also said that the land rises as it 
goes away from the house and that for the extension to be 200mm  above ground-level, more 
would have needed to have been cleared from the front of the extension - but the order form 
says that there were  to be no extra excavations. And the supplier said that self-levelling  
compound could be laid up to 50mm thick on the floor. Mrs R wasnt  satisfied with 
Shawbrooks response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought that 
thered been a breach  of contract about the floor level but that the remedy to make good the 
extension was the least disruptive option.  So he said that Shawbrook should arrange  a 
suitable time with Mrs R to allow the supplier to do the necessary work to bring the extension 
floor level with the house floor (but he said that no other action was required).
Mrs R has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
shes not been able to use the extension;
its unacceptable for the supplier to just put a load more screed down and for her to 
suffer again;
she wants the concrete floor finish to the house level, as stated on the contract, and 
shes not bothered  by how much disruption  that causes;
she wants the extension to be correct and in line with the contract and shes not 
getting forced into accepting rubbish workmanship  and being treated with no 
respect; and
if the supplier isnt willing to give her the concrete floor and levels  to the extension  as 
they should be it should pay her however much it costs to do the work and shell get 
another building company to do it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand Mrs Rs frustration that the extension isnt exactly as shed intended it 
would be. Shes complained about three  issues:
the internal  floor in the extension  isnt level with the floor in the house;
the floor isnt 200mm above ground-level as stated on the order form; and
Ref: DRN29513172the finish to the floor isnt trowel finish concrete as shown on the order  form.
The supplier  accepts that theres  been a breach of contract  because  the level of the floor in 
the extension  is lower than the level of the floor in the house. It has agreed to remedy  that 
issue and both the supplier and Shawbrook  have accepted the investigators  
recommendation. But the supplier has asked for information from Mrs R about the type and 
height of floor covering that shell be using  as that will be important in ensuring  that the floor 
in the extension is level with the floor in the house. 
Mrs R says that the supplier has already tried to level the floor but just added  more screed 
which then cracked. But that was before shed  complained to Shawbrook and I consider it to 
be fair and reasonable for there  to be a further  opportunity for the issue with the floor level to 
be rectified. If Mrs R isnt satisfied with the floor when the supplier has been given the 
opportunity to level it she may be able to make a further complaint to Shawbrook and then - 
if shes not happy with Shawbrooks response   to this service (but the outcome of any such  
complaint would depend on the circumstances at that time).
But Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to 
require Shawbrook to take any further  action about the height of the extension floor above 
ground level. Its clear that the floor isn't 200mm above ground level at all points. But for the 
front edge  of the extension to be 200mm above ground level further  excavation  work 
wouldve been required. And a box has been ticked on the order  form to show  that there 
would be no extra excavations. The supplier says that the survey  shows  that the floor should 
be 150mm above ground level at the point where the structure meets the house. So Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract 
about the height of the extension  above ground-level.
Nor am I persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Shawbrook to take any further  action about the finish  of the floor. A box has been 
ticked on the order form to show that the floor will be trowel finish  concrete. But the order  
form says that: A trowel finish concrete floor may not be perfectly  level  self levelling 
compound may be required  if the finished  surface is uneven. So Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that theres been  a breach of contract about the finish of 
the floor. And I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable  for me to require Shawbrook 
to arrange for the trowel finish concrete floor to be reinstated - I consider it to be fair and 
reasonable that the supplier uses self levelling  compound on the floor. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part. And I order 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to arrange  for the supplier  to do the work required to make  the 
extension floor level with the house  floor.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2951317