K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject  a claim 
she made under her car insurance policy. Shes  also unhappy with the way it dealt with the 
claim. 
background
Ms A made a claim to her insurer, Admiral. She said that shed  parked her car on a street  
near her home and locked it. She went away on holiday  for three weeks.  While she was 
away, the council  collected her car as it was parked  on double  yellow  lines, was found 
unlocked and appeared to be abandoned.  Ms A said she believed a car key might  have  
been stolen from her home.
Ms A wanted Admiral to provide her with a letter to confirm shed reported  her car as stolen 
so that she could give the letter to the council in order to have  her car released. 
Ms A was unhappy  that Admiral wanted  to carry out an investigation into her theft claim.  
After investigation,  Admiral rejected Ms As claim.  It applied a fraud  term under the policy.  It 
said Ms A was responsible for the costs of its investigation. 
Ms A complained to Admiral. In summary she said:
A courtesy car wasnt provided.
Ms As claim was passed to the validations team for a further review.
Ms A believed the Approved Repairer (AR) lied about her key.
Admiral delayed dealing with her claim.
Ms A wanted the claim concluded and a decision to be issued.
Admiral delayed dealing with her complaint.
An agent  passed Ms A to other members of the team and acted unprofessionally 
by refusing to speak  to her.
Admiral didnt uphold  Ms As complaint. It said its investigation was necessary due to 
inconsistencies in Ms As account. It had correctly  applied its exclusion. It had dealt with the 
claim and complaint within a reasonable period of time and caused  no delays. 
Ms A asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably. Ms A didnt agree. She hasnt said why. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Ms A told our investigator that she wants us to look at Admirals  decision to reject  her claim 
and not its decision  to void her policy. Admiral  has applied  the following term when deciding  
to reject Ms As claim:
Ref: DRN24304742General condition 9. Fraud
If you or anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information 
we require at any time during the policy that would impact either  the terms and 
conditions or our ability to offer cover  itself Your policy and all other policies to which 
You are connected through  EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to 
recover any costs we have incurred and will not return any premium.
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent false, exaggerated or if You or 
anyone acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false  way, or where we have 
been given any documents which are false or stolen.  Your  policy and all other  
policies to which you are connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. 
We will seek to recover any costs that have  been incurred and will not return  any 
premium.
Ms A made a claim under her home insurance  policy which  was also with Admiral for a 
burglary. There were  inconsistencies in the information Ms A provided. So Admiral instructed 
an investigator to interview Ms A. Admiral  as the insurer is entitled to make  reasonable 
enquiries in order  to be satisfied that a valid claim has been made. 
Any delays during the claim were as a result  of Admiral and its agents waiting for information 
from Ms A. Admiral  replied to Ms As complaint within the timescales set by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
Ms A reported that her house had been  broken  into on 12 December 2018  and this is when 
the spare key to her car may have been taken. However, the council removed Ms As car on 
5 December 2018.
Ms A told Admiral  when  she bought  her policy that she parked her car on her driveway 
overnight. However, Admiral discovered  that there was no driveway at the address Ms A 
gave. From Ms As account, she parked her car on a road near her address to be left there 
for three weeks while she was on holiday abroad. Ms A didnt log her claim with Admiral until 
7 January 2019  although she said she returned  from her holiday on 25 December 2018. 
From the investigators report, Ms A didnt provide the information they asked for and her 
account was inconsistent during the interview.  The interview was cut short  by Ms A and she 
didnt sign all of the pages of her statement. 
Neither the AR nor an independent assessor found evidence  of forced entry  into Ms As car 
when they inspected it. Both found that Ms As car key was bent which explained why it 
would be difficult to use. But both reported  that there were no issues  with the locks to her 
car. 
Admirals agent dealing with the claim wasnt available when Ms A called and so she was 
passed to another colleague. Admiral  said it would no longer communicate  with Ms A by 
phone and would only communicate with Ms A by email. Admiral can make a business 
decision as to how it chooses to communicate with a customer. I dont think  this made any 
difference to the outcome for Ms A. 
As Admiral didnt accept  Ms As claim, she wasnt entitled to use of a courtesy car. 
Ref: DRN24304743Based on what Ive seen,  I think Admirals  decision to apply its fraud term as a reason to 
reject Ms As claim was fair and reasonable and in line with the policy.  So Im not upholding 
Ms As complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430474