K821x#15complaint
Mr H is complaining about the quality of a car that he acquired  under a hire purchase  
agreement through  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
Mr H acquired  a new car through a hire purchase  agreement that he took out through  
VWFS. He says that within a few months  the brakes were squealing and hes taken the car 
to the supplying dealership four times  but the issue keeps coming  back. Mr H wants  to reject 
the car.
VWFS said that its aware that this is a known issue with this type of car, but it said that it 
was within  the range of tolerance  and it didnt think there was a fault with this car or that it 
was unsafe. But it said it was willing to do further investigation into the car. Mr H didnt want 
further work  to be done on the car as he says that the dealerships already had a number of 
opportunities to put things right. So he wanted to be allowed to reject the car. 
VWFS later agreed  to pay for an independent  company to do an inspection of the car. And 
the inspector said that he could hear a squeal from the brakes  as it was coming to a rest.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She was satisfied  there  was a fault with the brakes 
and VWFS had had a number of opportunities to put it right, but the fault was still present. 
She said that she didnt  think that a reasonable person, having bought a luxury  vehicle, 
would expect to experience a squealing from the brakes. So taking into account  the fact it 
was a new car and he paid around £38,000 for it, she didnt think  that it was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale.
Given this, the investigator thought Mr H should  now be allowed to reject the car. So she 
thought that VWFS should:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay and remove any adverse information  from 
Mr Hs credit file if applicable;
2.collect the car at no further cost to Mr H;
3.refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and
4.pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused due to the faulty goods, including  multiple 
return visits for repairs and diagnostics.
Mr H accepted the investigators opinion, although  he thinks  VWFS should  also refund a 
percentage of the payments he made  towards the finance because of the issues  hes had 
with the car. He also said that hes paid £337.48  to service the car in August 2018, which  he 
wants VWFS to refund.
VWFS didnt  agree with the investigators findings.  It said it didnt dispute that the brakes 
were making a noise,  but it didnt think there was a fault with them. It said that Mr Hs car 
was an automatic car. And it said that squealing of the brakes is a known common 
characteristic of automatic  vehicles.  It said that this particular noise occurs when there is a 
build-up of dirt and dust from the brake  pads  and so the actions of cleaning and re-greasing  
the brakes that were taken by the dealership are the correct  course  of action.
Ref: DRN26328552VWFS says that, while the noise may be frustrating to Mr H, its a characteristic of the 
vehicle caused  by driving style and it doesnt think its a safety  issue.
Since then,  Mr H has also said that he had to have his battery  replaced. He says that he was 
told it was a known  fault with the batteries installed in his car. He was given a courtesy car 
while his car was in the garage, but he had to take a day off work  because of this. He also 
had to replace  two tyres on the car and he wants VWFS to refund these costs  too.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Mr H acquired  the car under a hire purchase agreement.  Legislation  in this case  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)   implies a term into the hire purchase  agreement that the 
car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance  provider, VWFS  is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  
VWFS doesnt think theres  a fault with the car. It doesnt deny that the brakes have been 
making a noise, but it disputes there is a fault with the brakes. 
VWFS says the vehicle  is an automatic car and that squealing brakes is a known common 
characteristic of automatic  vehicles.  It says that this is common to all automatic vehicles and 
not just automatic vehicles manufactured by this particular  manufacturer.  VWFS says its 
specialists have said the issue Mr H is having  occurs when there  is a build-up of dirt and 
dust from the brake pads. So it says the actions of cleaning and re-greasing  the brakes that 
was taken by the dealership was the correct course of action  to rectify the fault.
VWFS thinks that the issue  is a characteristic of the car caused by Mr Hs driving style and is 
not a safety issue.  It says it particularly arises when a car is mainly  used for town-style  
driving rather than longer  journeys, or driving faster roads. It says the dirt is able to build up 
on the brakes and is not burned off by a drive  at a faster speed  over a longer  journey. 
It maintains that there has been  no manufacturing  fault located  with the brakes.  So it doesnt 
think Mr H has the right to reject the car. 
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Mr H acquired a 
new car and paid around £38,000 for it. 
Where a brand new car is supplied the expectation  is that the car will be free from minor 
defects. Around  five months after Mr H received the car the noise in the brakes first 
appeared. Mr H says that the dealership found  a small  stone in the brakes  and removed it. 
Around two months  later the noise returned  and the dealership applied grease to the brakes. 
But a few weeks later the issue  came  back.  The dealership said it would apply a different 
type of grease, but the noise came back again  a few weeks  later.
I note VWFSs  comments that it doesnt think theres  a manufacturing fault.  But I dont think 
a reasonable person would expect  there  to be a recurring noise in the brakes given  it was a 
Ref: DRN26328553brand new car and he paid £38,000. In particular I note the independent  inspector 
highlighted that there was a noise in the brakes and further investigation was required to 
establish the cause of the noise. I think its likely that, if the inspector thought this was a 
normal noise that everyone has in an automatic he would have said so. So I think  the fact he 
suggests further investigation is required leads  me to conclude  its not normal  or expected 
and is therefore  is most  likely to be a minor  defect on Mr Hs car. 
I havent seen  anything to show that Mr H's driving  style is anything out of the ordinary. So I 
think these issues are down to a minor defect of the car. So I dont think  the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
There have been  a number of attempts  to try to resolve the issue,  which  havent been  
acceptable. Im also not persuaded that VWFS will be able to adequately resolve this issue.  
The CRA allows Mr H to reject the car. And I think thats fair in this case. I also think  that this 
matter has caused  Mr H a lot of distress  and inconvenience in trying to resolve it. Hes had 
to take the car back to the garage a number of times and hes had to correspond  extensively 
with the dealership, VWFS and this service.  And he wouldnt  have had to do so had VWFS 
not supplied him with a car of unsatisfactory quality.
Im also conscious that Mr H had to recently arrange for the battery to be replaced on the 
car. Although I understand  that this was provided  free of charge, he had to take time off work  
for this. I dont think Mr H should have  had to have this replaced given the low age and 
mileage of the car. And its clear  this has caused  him further  distress  and inconvenience.  
Given all this, I think it should pay him £250 in compensation.
To resolve  this complaint,  VWFS should  put Mr H in the position hed be in if it hadnt 
supplied the car and the finance agreement.  So I think it should:
1.allow Mr H to reject the car. VWFS  should end the agreement  with nothing  further  owed 
and collect the car at no cost to him;
2.refund  the deposit of £12,676 he paid plus 8% simple interest per year from when he 
paid it until he gets it back;
3.remove of all records of the credit agreement from him credit file record. I note VWFS  
says that its legally required to record this agreement on his credit file. It thinks that it 
should record the agreement as settled  or voluntary terminated.  But I think  this could 
have an adverse effect on his credit file. Ultimately VWFS provided him with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory  quality, given it shouldnt have  provided him with this agreement,  I 
think its fair that its removed from his record; and
4.pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused him.
I note Mr H has also said that hes had to pay to have two tyres replaced and have the car 
serviced. I think the service and replacement of the tyres are costs  one would ordinarily 
expect from owning a car. And hes driven  around  16,000 miles in the car. So I dont think 
these costs are attributable to the car being  of unsatisfactory quality.  And I dont think  VWFS 
needs to refund these.
Ref: DRN26328554my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to compensate  Mr H in line with my 
instructions above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632855