K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an error when updating his address. And 
he feels that theyve  treated  him unfairly,  trying to get him to opt-out of receiving postal 
statements. 
background 
In October  2018 Mr M went  into a Barclays branch  to update his address, but staff recorded  
it incorrectly. He also felt that he was bullied into opting-out of receiving postal statements 
even though he needs them. 
When Mr M complained to Barclays they confirmed that his address was now recorded 
correctly. They said they were sorry that he had felt pressured into receiving paperless 
statements, and that feedback had been  given to the branch.  They  also apologised for not 
completing a call-back they had promised him, and offered him £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to our service. Hes 
explained that he changes address often. And that hes made similar complaints to Barclays 
in the past. He says he only recently  became aware that he has to tell Barclays that he 
wants to continue receiving his bank statements by post every time he moves home  which 
he doesnt think is a reasonable  process  for them to have in place. He doesnt feel theyve 
done enough to address the problems hes had. And he wants them to pay him appropriate 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
Our investigator felt that Barclays' offer of compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Mr M disagrees, so the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr M will be disappointed, but Im 
not going to ask Barclays to increase their offer of compensation here. Ill explain why.
Barclays agree that they made  an error when updating Mr Ms address. And I understand 
why this was a serious concern for him. But fortunately he noticed the error the same day 
and contacted Barclays. His address was then correctly updated. And Barclays  have 
confirmed that no correspondence was sent out to him during this time. So whilst I 
appreciate this was inconvenient for Mr M, Im satisfied that he didnt suffer  any further loss 
as a result  of this mistake.
Mr M feels that he was bullied into agreeing to receive paperless statements in the branch. 
Hes told us that staff asked him to go paperless  on more than one occasion, and questioned 
his reasons for not wishing  to do so. This clearly caused Mr M some distress.  Hes explained 
that he needs paperless statements for various  regulatory and tax requirements.
Ref: DRN22715832I can see Barclays have taken steps to provide feedback to the staff concerned,  as they 
promised Mr M. They  also arranged for him to receive paper statements again  before any 
new statements were due to be issued. And theyve  put a note on his account to advise staff 
that this is his preference. I think these steps are reasonable to resolve the issue. And whilst 
I appreciate the trouble and upset  this incident caused Mr M, Im pleased  he is now receiving 
his statements in the way hed prefer.  
I appreciate Mr M might not feel that its fair for Barclays to raise the option of paperless 
statements when he updates his address  but as our investigator  explained,  Barclays  are 
entitled to have this policy. And its not the role of this service to review  this or ask them  to 
make changes to it. 
Barclays have said that they cant guarantee that Mr M wont  be asked again in the future if 
he would  prefer to receive paperless statements.  But as Ive outlined above, theyve taken 
steps to try and reduce  the chance of this happening. And theyve  also made Mr M aware 
that if he prefers, he can update his address and select  to receive paperless statements on 
his online  banking account, which would mean he doesnt have to visit a branch.
I understand Mr M experienced some  problems when  trying  to make  a complaint about 
these issues. He called Barclays on the evening of 23 October  2018,  and was incorrectly  
told that they couldnt log a complaint at that time. He was also promised a call back  from a 
manager within the next 2 hours,  but didnt receive  this and had to call back the next day. I 
agree the level of service Barclays provided to Mr M here was not of the standard he should  
expect. 
But overall, when  considering the impact of these incidents I agree that the £50 
compensation theyve  offered Mr M in respect  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything  further  here. I understand Mr M declined this offer of 
compensation when it was first made, but Barclays have told us that they will credit it to his 
current account if he now wishes  to accept it.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. Its now for Mr M to decide 
whether he wishes  to accept the £50 compensation already offered by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2271583