K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance claim.  My references  
to Pinnacle include  its agents.
background
Ms L has life time pet insurance for her dog while the policy  is in place,  insured  by Pinnacle. 
The policy has an annual medical condition benefit limit. She claimed on the policy when her 
dog needed vet treatment for a lump on his toe.
Pinnacle declined  the claim. It said the evidence  showed  the swelling was related to Ms Ls 
dogs ongoing  skin problems, dermatitis with pyoderma  atopy (allergy),  and it had already  
paid the maximum benefit for treatment for his skin problems for that policy  year.
Ms L complained to us and wants Pinnacle to pay the claim. She said her dogs swollen toe 
wasnt anything to do with his skin allergies but caused by a thorn  which she had removed 
from his toe.
Ultimately, our investigator thought Pinnacle had fairly declined the claim as Pinnacles  vet 
provided further evidence that the claim related to Ms Ls dogs ongoing skin problems.
Ms L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said her vet had seen Pinnacles 
vets comments and her vet thought there  were  lots of reasons her dogs swollen toe was 
caused by a thorn, not his skin condition. Ms L said she hoped I would contact her vet.
Before I made my decision I asked our investigator to send the full evidence  from Pinnacles 
vet to Ms L and explain that it was her responsibility  to provide any new evidence from her 
vet. We explained  the issues her vet needed to address and that Ms L would be responsible  
for any costs  her vet charged for the information.
Ms L said it sounded like Id already made  a decision so she didnt want to spend any more 
money. Our investigator explained to Ms L that I hadnt already  made a final decision and 
I would take into account any additional  evidence, but if there wasnt any Id make my 
decision on the information I had. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We havent received  any additional evidence from Ms Ls vet. I think  Ive given Ms L 
reasonable time to provide the information,  or at least to tell us she intended to provide  
further information.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms L but I dont uphold her complaint. On the evidence I have 
Pinnacle fairly and reasonably declined the claim.  Ill explain why.
Ms Ls policy has a policy  benefit  limit of £1,000 per condition per year. The policy definition 
of condition  includes:
Related Condition(s) means if a number of illnesses, accidental  injuries  or symptoms are:
(a) diagnosed  as one illness or accidental injury; or
(b) caused by, relate to, or result  from another illness, accidental  injury or symptom.
Ref: DRN26293542The policy is clear that when Pinnacle  applies a benefit limit it will consider related conditions 
as one illness unless  a vet confirms that they are unrelated. We may seek  further 
confirmation of this from a vet appointed  by us.
Ms Ls dog had various treatments for his skin infections and allergy  problems and Pinnacle 
paid for the treatment  up to the £1,000 limit in the relevant policy  year. So if the evidence  
shows the disputed  claim was probably linked to his skin condition  Pinnacle fairly declined  
the claim.
The disputed claim is for Mass  RF (Toe 4 multifocal  pyogranulomatous  folliculitis and 
furunculosis), in effect an infection and inflammation of the hair follicles. Ms Ls vet notes at 
the time says ? histiocytoma but o(wner) thinks was a puncture at first so?? which  means 
the vet thought the lump  could be a benign skin tumour.
The results  of the biopsy of the lump were  that:
The skin biopsy from the mass on (the dogs)  paw reveals a focally extensive
pyogranulomatous dermatitis with folliculitis and furunculosis. This, if fully representative 
is consistent with a localised deep  pyoderma  (deep bacterial furunculosis)Deep 
pyoderma may be secondary to a range of underlying diseases including  allergy,  parasitic 
or endocrine disease.
Ms Ls vet told Pinnacle she initially believed the mass could have  been  an abnormal growth 
of tissue but the biopsy  diagnosed the problem as multifocal pyogranulomatous folliculitis 
and furunculosis. She said the condition isnt exclusive to dogs with atopy, so should not be 
considered linked to (Ms Ls dogs)  atopy.
Pinnacle accepted  the condition wasnt exclusive to dogs with allergic skin disease. But it 
said there was no vet evidence of a thorn  being  the problem. Pinnacles vet made several  
points. Weve now sent the full evidence to Ms L, in summary the vet said:
a puncture wound and mass that could  be a histiocytoma look very different on physical 
examination. Ms Ls vets notes show her vet wasnt convinced that the mass was due 
to a puncture  wound
the mass  didnt get better following antibiotic treatment. Had it been  a puncture wound  
and the owner removed the thorn, the swelling  should  have resolved following five days 
of antibiotics as the thorn would have  caused local infection. In this case the mass 
enlarged and that response wouldnt have been seen with a small puncture  lesion 
(Ms Ls) vets could argue that a foreign body remained  in the foot, however  at no point 
was a foreign body  extracted or identified within the lesion on histology 
localised deep pyoderma was identified on histology, with microorganisms not identified.  
If a bacterial infection  following a foreign body was suspected  microorganisms would 
have been identified on staining
even if a thorn caused a puncture a localised deep pyoderma wouldnt be seen following 
a simple thorn  puncture.  That sort of a reaction would  be if the thorn  remained in place 
for weeks or there was some sort of underlying skin condition that would exacerbate  this 
sort of lesion.  The thorn was removed by the owner prior to the appointment, with no 
mention of the lesion  in the notes of the previous  appointment.  However, the dog has an 
underlying skin allergy. This sort of an exaggerated reaction  to a thorn can be attributed 
to the underlying  atopy
Ref: DRN26293543if a thorn wasnt involved,  a deep pyoderma doesnt occur  for no reason.  The most 
common underlying  reason  is an allergy, which Ms Ls dog has. Deep pyoderma is not 
exclusive to dogs  with atopy, but the condition never  occurs without an underlying  
reason  here a thorn is being blamed solely for the reaction seen, which the vet didnt 
think possible
the mass  was probably related to the dogs skin condition, especially as there was no 
neoplastic component and one of the most common conditions secondary to atopy  is 
pyoderma as seen in this case.  The histology  report states  its likely secondary to 
underlying disease,  with a foreign body reaction not being described as one of these  
possible underlying  diseases  atopy  is at the top of the list.
In response to Pinnacles vets comments Ms L told us the thorn was still in her dogs paw 
when she went to the vet and worked its way out a few weeks  after the biopsy after which 
the swelling  went down.  She said the biopsy  was done from the top of the growth so the 
thorn or microorganism  wouldnt have been picked  up by the histology.
I note Ms Ls comments but I think Pinnacle can reasonably understand that the lump on her 
dogs toe and his skin conditions were more likely than not related because:
theres no evidence from Ms Ls vet that a thorn  was present and the probable cause of 
the lump
Ms Ls vet initially thought the lump  was a tumour/abnormal growth  which Pinnacles vet 
says looks very different from a puncture wound
the histology report makes no mention of a foreign body being present, and Pinnacles 
vet says no relevant  microorganisms were found. Ms L says the latter  is because  the 
biopsy wasnt  taken  from near the thorn  but Ive no vet evidence  to support her 
suggestion that the location of the biopsy made a difference  to the histology findings
the histology report says the deep  pyoderma  found may be secondary to a range  of 
underlying diseases,  with allergies, which her dog has, being the first mentioned reason.
On the evidence I have Im satisfied that Pinnacle fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
Ms L has mentioned  shes concerned that in the future Pinnacle will say anything  she claims 
for is due to her dog's  skin problems. But shes also concerned that changing to new 
insurance would mean  his existing medical conditions would be excluded by a new policy.
When Ms L makes any claim Pinnacle  should reasonably assess the claim on the available  
evidence. If Ms L is unhappy  with any future  assessment she can complain to Pinnacle and 
ultimately to us. She in correct in understanding  that many  new insurance  policies  she may 
take out would exclude her dogs pre-existing medical conditions.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2629354