K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Stagemount Limited  (trading as Quid Market) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M took out an instalment loan with Quid Market  on 14 December 2017. The loan was to 
be repaid over 5 instalments with the last being on 30 April 2018.  The monthly repayment 
amount was £115.26. Mr M repaid the loan early  on 29 January 2018. 
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter  to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint.  He concluded that Quid Market  didnt  need  
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loan to Mr M and didnt do anything  
wrong. Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator. He said Quid  Market should have seen that 
he had other  debt repayments to repay  at the time it granted this loan to him and that it was 
irresponsible for it to do so.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Mr M could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN28778472Quid Market did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. And it then used this information  to calculate how much 
disposable income Mr M had left over each month. Quid Market also used a credit reference 
agency to gather some more information  about Mr Ms financial situation  at that time.
I have seen results from the credit  check that Quid Market carried  out at the time in granted  
the loan. Mr M had three defaulted accounts  and one delinquent  account on his file from the 
information Quid Market  would have seen. But when I look into this further,  I can see the 
three defaults were  from 2015. So although Mr M did have a recent delinquent account, 
when I take into consideration his disclosed disposable income, the amount he was 
requesting and the fact this was his first loan with Quid Market,  I dont think the credit search 
results or the other checks it carried out showed enough that I would have expected it to look 
into things further.  The checks also didnt show any other concerning information such  as a 
reliance on other short  term loans, bankruptcy or any court  orders.
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments about his finances at the time the loans were granted,  and 
that he had other financial  commitments to repay.  But that wasnt  something he told Quid  
Market when he asked  for the loan, nor do I think it is something Quid Market should have 
discovered from proportionate checks. I think it was reasonable here for Quid Market  to rely 
on the information that Mr M provided about his finances when assessing the affordability of 
the loan. I dont think it would be proportionate  to expect Quid Market  to have gone further 
and sought to independently verify  what Mr M had said. And as the information Mr M 
provided suggested that the loan was affordable  for him I dont think that Quid Market  did 
anything wrong  when it agreed to lend.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2877847