K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the proposed  settlement Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
(Gresham) has offered her after she made a claim on her buildings  insurance policy.  
background
In March 2019, Mrs As home was broken into  and as a result  the doors  securing her 
property were damaged.  
A contractor  went to Mrs As property after the break in to secure the door and assess  the 
damage caused to them.  The contractor, who are glazing  and lock specialists, thought that 
both doors  effected  could  be repaired.  Mrs A was unhappy with this, she didnt think the 
damage could  be repaired  especially to the internal wooden  door.  
Mrs A has also said that the contractor  who went to assess  the damage  was rude and 
unsympathetic. Shes also said that the contractor  assessed the damage and repair  work  
using an app.
Mrs A has also raised concerns that the door wouldnt look aesthetically  pleasing after the 
repair work had been  carried  out.
Mrs A has sent in quotes from a number of different door fitters. These companies say they 
wouldnt repair the door and have provided quotes  for the new doors.  Gresham  maintain that 
the doors can be repaired.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs A. He thought that Gresham had fairly dealt with 
Mrs As claim and what it had offered to settle the claim was fair. Mrs A still didnt agree with 
this resolution and so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs 
As complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mrs As situation. Its clear  that the consequences 
of having her property  broken into has caused her much upset and anxiety, which  is 
completely understandable. In reaching  my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay  
or disregard the situation Mrs A has found herself  in. Ive no doubt it was truly horrible  to find 
that her property had been broken into. And Im sure the fact that she feels  unsafe in her 
property has probably made an already bad situation worse.
But being  independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties 
have said. And I have to look to see if Gresham has acted  fairly and reasonably  when 
dealing with Mrs As claim  and I think it has.
Ive seen pictures of the door that Mrs A is concerned about. Its clearly damaged, and 
theres no dispute over this. So its now for me to decide if Gresham has taken the 
appropriate action  when dealing with the claim.  
Ref: DRN27823652Firstly, Mrs A has expressed dissatisfaction in that Gresham didnt send a loss adjuster or 
surveyor to the property. I can see from the contractor notes on file, it did tell Mrs A it would  
send a surveyor. But as the claim Mrs A is making relates to damaged doors,  I think 
Gresham has acted reasonably in sending a glazing and lock specialist. It seems to me that 
these specialists would be best suited to give their opinion on how to proceed with the claim. 
I understand that Mrs A doesnt feel that the person  who came  to her property was 
appropriately qualified  because they were  using an app to assess  the damage. Ive spoken  
to Gresham about  this point. Theyve confirmed that the contractor was using a palmtop 
computer  this would have been  used to type up notes relating to the damage  a survey  
report would  then be generated through  the main office. Im persuaded that the damage  was 
assessed by the engineer and not by an app. 
Ive seen a copy  of a survey report which  suggests  that the damage was assessed  and 
the door could  be repaired. The specialist contractor that visited the property is of the opinion  
that both sets of doors are repairable. Mrs A has agreed that the external PVC doors are 
repairable. But she doesnt agree  that the internal wooden door is. For this reason, Ill focus 
more on the claim relating  to the wooden  door from here on. 
As our investigator has previously mentioned, the terms and conditions  of Mrs As policy  say 
that Gresham can choose to settle a claim by either replacing, reinstating, repairing or by 
payment. In this case, Gresham are proposing to repair the door or offer Mrs A a payment 
for the cost of the repairs.  Because Gresham have  made this decision off the back of advice 
received from a specialist,  I think they have acted fairly. 
Mrs A disagrees that the door is repairable and has provided us with quotes from other door 
companies. These quotes say that the companies shed contacted wouldnt repair  the door 
and have only given  quotes for replacement. Mrs A feels these quotes prove that the door 
isnt in a repairable condition. 
Gresham has sent us information that shows it has been in touch with the companies Mrs A 
sent in quotes from. Both of these companies  have said they dont do door repairs  and so 
they could only quote for a replacement door. Mrs A hasnt sent us any further information 
from a specialist repair company that contradicts what the Greshams contractors have said. 
Mrs A has asked  if a different specialist could go to her property to assess  the situation. Im 
not going to ask Gresham to do this. It has already sent an appropriately specialised  
contractor, and so I dont think it would be fair to ask it do to this again. Gresham  has already 
said it would  consider any quotes  Mrs A sent in, which it has done. But she hasnt  provided  
anything from a specialist  repairer that contradicts what Greshams  contractors have said.  
Ref: DRN27823653I think the fair thing  to do would be for Mrs A to allow Greshams  contractor to repair the 
door. The repair will come  with a one year guarantee and so if the repair  isnt to a 
satisfactory standard then Gresham should replace the door.  Alternatively,  Mrs A can accept 
a cash settlement for the cost of the repair. I dont  consider what  Gresham has proposed to 
be unfair or unreasonable  as long as the door is replaced to a good  standard.
Mrs A has said that by only repairing the door,  Gresham  wont  be putting  her back in the 
position she would have been before the burglary. When this service  looks to put things 
right, this is what we would consider,  and this is what I have  also considered as part of this 
decision. Its difficult to be able to put someone back in the exact same  position they were in. 
And especially in this case given the upset and impact the burglary has had on Mrs A. But 
thinking specifically  about the doors,  and how to remedy this, I havent seen anything that 
suggests that a repair  wouldnt be successful  or would leave Mrs As door in a weaker 
position than before.  But if the repair isnt successful, then Gresham  should consider 
replacing the door. 
Mrs A has also raised concerns over the contractor that visited the property.  Shes said they 
were rude and unsympathetic. Mrs A raised this with Gresham who responded to say theyd  
look into this for her. The notes provided by Gresham suggest that Mrs A didnt want them  to 
do this, as she was concerned  that the same contractor might  visit her property again. I dont 
think Gresham have been allowed the opportunity to look into this point further, and so I 
dont think it would be fair for me to make a decision or comment on this particular point.
Mrs A has said that this situation has caused her stress  and anxiety, and Greshams  
handling of the claim  has caused  added stress. I appreciate that this situation has been very 
difficult for Mrs A. But I have to look to see if Gresham has acted unfairly.  And I dont think it 
has.
Id like to thank her for taking the time to send in all the information she has done. Ive 
considered everything  shes  said when coming  to my decision  and while  I may not have 
commented on every point she has raised  in this decision, I have thought  about  everything  
she has said very carefully. 
If Mrs A wants to have the door repaired,  or accept the cash settlement, she should get in 
touch with Gresham direct to arrange  this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2782365