K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Usay Business Limited misled them about a private medical 
insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs O made a separate  complaint about their insurer. 
background
In June 2017, Usay recommended that Mr and Mrs O take out a private medical insurance 
policy with an insurer. Mrs O told Usay that shed previously had follicular lymphoma  and 
that Mr O previously had prostate cancer. 
In 2018, Mrs O made a claim  against  the policy for a consultation and mammogram. 
She queried  the amount  the insurer paid for the consultation. It came to light that Mrs O had 
seen the specialist for the same issue in 2016. The insurer said it would  honour  the cover  for 
the consultation and mammogram but wouldnt provide further  benefit,  as the treatment 
related to a pre-existing condition,  so wasnt covered under the policy.  
Mr and Mrs O say that when they took out the policy, Usay told them that they would have 
cover for everything other than their pre-existing medical conditions.  Mr and Mrs O say that 
they wouldnt have  taken out the policy if they were  aware that there were other exclusions. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that the policy  was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs O and met their objectives. The investigator said that Usay told Mr and Mrs O 
that any new conditions  would be covered in full. The claim from Mrs O that the insurer 
declined wasnt for a new condition, as shed  received advice about it within  the five years 
before the start of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the policy wasnt  explained 
properly to them. They said that Usay told them that the policy  would cover everything. Mr 
and Mrs O say that they wouldnt  have bought the policy if the had known the true position. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that Usay misled Mr and Mrs O about the policy.  Ill explain  why. 
Ive listened to the relevant sales calls.  Usay told Mr and Mrs O that theyd be covered for 
new medical conditions  and wouldnt be covered for any medical conditions theyd had 
symptoms of, medication, tests and treatment for or advice about  in the five years before the 
policy. Usay explained  that theyd be covered for pre-existing conditions  if they dont have 
medication, tests, treatment or advice about them for two years after the start of the policy. 
Ref: DRN26101922In addition, the document headed  Demands  And Needs,  which Usay sent after the phone  
calls, says:
I have recommended that your policy is underwritten on a Moratorium basis.  Moratorium  
Underwriting (Mori)  does not require  you to disclose your medical history, in short, any 
medical condition  that you have had symptoms, treatment, medication  or advice on in the 5 
years prior to the policy start date is automatically  excluded from cover for the first 2 years  of 
the policy.
However, if you have a 2 year consecutive period without  treatment,  medication  or advice 
(for that medical condition)  then that condition  will be eligible for cover 
Usay also sent Mr and Mrs O the policy terms and conditions, which set out the basis for 
their cover. 
Im afraid that I cant agree that Usay told Mr and Mrs O that their policy  would cover 
everything or everything except the two conditions they mentioned.  Based on what Ive seen 
and heard, I dont  think I can safely conclude that Usay misled Mr and Mrs O about  the 
policy. Mrs O was understandably disappointed that a claim against  the policy was declined.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs O but there are no grounds  on which to uphold their 
complaint against  Usay.  
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2610192