K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that a car he acquired  under  a four-year hire purchase agreement  from 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. 
Background
In August  2018  Mr P entered into a hire purchase  agreement for a new car. Its list price was 
over £82,600, and Mr P paid a deposit  of £9,500.  
In November 2018 Mr P reported some problems with the car. There was wind noise  when 
he was driving it, a service warning  light came on and he noticed a burning smell. The car 
was returned to the dealership so the issues could be investigated. 
The car needed a new panoramic sun-roof, and this was replaced under warranty.  
Engineers thought the burning smell was caused  by a sticker  on the exhaust; they removed 
the sticker  and cleaned  the exhaust. 
The dealership explained that, whilst  usual  service intervals are at 16,000 miles or 12 
months, an update  was released in October  2018 (that is, a couple of months after Mr P 
obtained the car) so that an initial service would be carried out at 3,000 miles. This was to 
prevent oil contamination and issues with the diesel particulate filter (DPF). Once  that had 
been done, the engine  management system could be reset so that services were required 
every 16,000 miles. 
The dealership offered  Mr P £600  in recognition  of the inconvenience  to which hed been  put 
while work was carried  out on his car under warranty. It noted that, whilst he had been 
provided with a courtesy car, it was not of the same model as his own. 
Mr P was not happy, however. He had not expected  a new car to need  repairs and took the 
decision to sell the car. He says he made  a loss of some £10,000. He referred the matter  to 
this service. 
Two of our investigators looked  at what had happened. Both reached  broadly the same  view, 
namely that Black Horse (through  the dealership) had treated Mr P fairly by carrying out 
necessary repairs at no cost to Mr P. Mr P did not accept their findings  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigators  did. 
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including  a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. Given the car was new, cost over 80,000  and was supplied  with a 
manufacturers warranty, I think Mr P was entitled  to expect it be near-perfect,  especially in 
the first few months of the hire purchase  agreement.
The car was not of the quality I would  expect. In particular, the panoramic glass  roof should 
not have needed replacing.  
I do however accept what the dealership  has said about the service  intervals  and that the 
manufacturer changed those intervals so that an initial service was recommended  after 
Ref: DRN247580423,000 miles. I accept  too that this applied to the first interval only. Mr P suggested that he 
would need to have the car serviced almost monthly, but I dont believe that was the case.  It 
did not need to be serviced every 3,000  miles,  only after the first 3,000  miles. I note as well 
that Mr Ps mileage allowance over the life of the hire purchase agreement was 40,833  
miles, so it seems unlikely  that he was planning to drive 3,000 miles a month. 
Because the car was not of satisfactory  quality, I must consider whether Black Horse did 
enough to put things  right. Mr P says he should  have been allowed to reject the car, but 
Black Horse  says that it was sufficient that it was repaired under warranty.  
The issue  with the roof was not, in my view, a minor defect; it was a significant fault. It was 
however one which could be repaired, and it was repaired at no cost to Mr P. It appears that 
the repair was successful. In my view, that was, therefore, a fair way to resolve  that issue.
I accept what the dealership and Black Horse have  said about the service warning light and 
the service intervals.  The change to the expected service intervals to include a first service 
at 3,000 miles did not, in my view, mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
For these reasons, I believe that Black Horses response to the issues raised by Mr P was a 
reasonable one. 
Mr P says that he sold the car and lost around  £10,000. I dont believe however that his 
loss  which I take to be the difference between the price of the car when new and the 
price Mr P obtained  can properly  be attributed to the defects Ive mentioned and which 
were repaired. I think it more likely that the difference is down  to depreciation. That is, I am 
not persuaded that the price Mr P achieved  is any less than would have been  the case if no 
repairs had been  needed. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Black Horse Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept  or reject  my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2475804