K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs T complains Affinion International Limited wont refund the premiums  she 
paid for her card protection policy. The estate of Mrs T is represented by her son  Mr T.
background
Mrs T was sold a card protection policy on 10 June 2010. Affinions records  show the policy 
was cancelled on 18 June  2014. Sadly, Mrs T died in October 2014. Mr T says a claim form 
was received inviting her to claim compensation for the card protection policy  in 
September 2015. He complained that although hed returned the claim form, he never  heard 
anything further,  despite chasing  many times.
Affinion didnt uphold the complaint. It said the redress scheme had no record of the claim 
form being received  or Mr T contacting it before the deadline for claims.  Mr T brought  the 
complaint to this service.
An investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr T didnt agree. The complaint  
has therefore been passed  to me for a decision.  Ive read and considered  Mr Ts response to 
the investigators view in full.
my findings
As Mr T is aware,  the financial services regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), 
agreed a redress scheme in 2015  to compensate consumers, like Mrs T, with card protection  
policies.
Broadly the redress  scheme required businesses including Affinion to return  premiums paid 
on or after 14 January  2005 to consumers who made a claim under the scheme  before  a 
certain date. The redress scheme was approved  by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by the scheme. Im satisfied Mrs Ts card protection  
policy was covered by the scheme.
This means  that rather  than decide  whats fair and reasonable, I can only look at whether the 
redress scheme rules were followed and whether Mrs Ts estate has received what it was 
entitled to under those rules.
The redress  scheme  rules say Claim Forms  must  be received by the Scheme 
Administrators on or before the Bar Date.  If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the 
Claim Form will be rejected and the Scheme  Creditor [Mrs Ts estate in this case] shall have  
no right to Redress.
So, claims had to be made by the bar date which was 18 March 2016. Although there was a 
later bar date of 19 September 2016 if one of the exceptional circumstances listed  in the 
rules applied.
Mr T accepts the redress scheme  sent a claim form. He says this was filled in and returned. 
However, the redress scheme  has provided  its records for Mrs T. And they show a 
completed claim form wasnt  received.  Mr T says he chased up the redress scheme but 
Ref: DRN25165782never heard back. However, the redress scheme records  dont show any contact from Mr T 
until 10 May 2018. Its notes for this contact say, Letter receivedasking whether his late 
mother is entitled to compensation as he has just found some paperwork . I note that Mr T 
has disputed this entry.
I appreciate Mr T is adamant he did return the claim form and then chased  many times. And 
Im not disputing thats the case. But Im satisfied the redress  scheme  has no record of this 
and in my experience the redress scheme  recorded everything it received. The redress 
scheme rules say claim forms shall only be deemed served upon actual receipt.  And there 
isnt a record of actual receipt.
Mr T says this service shouldnt take Affinions word that the claim form and chasers werent 
received. I understand hes frustrated. But I cant ignore the fact there  isnt any evidence  of 
receipt. And the redress scheme rules  dont allow for exceptions  to be made.
I know Mr T feels strongly otherwise, but having looked  at what happened  here,  Im satisfied 
the redress scheme rules  were followed. And as set out above, Im required to follow  those 
rules when deciding  the complaint. Its not a case of me siding with Affinion over Mr T or not 
believing Mr T. Ive only been able to consider whether  the records  show the redress 
scheme rules were followed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint of Mrs Ts estate. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Ts estate to accept or reject my 
decision before  28 February 2020.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2516578