K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about the refusal  of a claim he has made under a mobile phone  and 
gadget insurance  policy,  provided  with his bank account and underwritten  by Assurant 
General Insurance Limited. 
Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf and so all references  to Assurant in 
this decision should  be read as including  those agents.  
background
Mr V says he purchased  three mobile  phones,  accessories  and a digital camera  from a store 
while on holiday overseas  on 24 September 2017. The following  day, while travelling on an 
overnight sleeper  train, the bag containing  all the items was stolen. 
On 15 October 2017, Mr V made  a claim for two of the phones  under another policy held 
with a different  insurer. That claim was dealt with on behalf of that insurer  by the same 
claims-handlers as are dealing with his claim under this policy  with Assurant. 
That insurer  initially declined the claim for the two phones as it said it only covers one phone 
at any one time. Mr V was apparently told he could register one phone, claim for it and then 
register the second and make  a second  claim for that one, which he did and the insurer 
subsequently provided Mr V with replacement phones. A few months later,  Mr V claimed for 
some accessories for these two phones were also stolen in the same event. That insurer 
also settled that claim.
Then in January 2018, Mr V made  a claim under  this policy  with Assurant  for the camera and 
then in April 2018  he made another claim under the same policy for the third phone, which  
he says were also stolen  in the same incident  on 25 September 2017. 
Assurant raised concerns  about these claims. In summary, Assurant  has said the following: 
Its claims-handlers had spoken  to Mr V several  times  over a few months  regarding  
his claims under the other insurance policy and he had never mentioned  a camera  
before.
All the items were apparently purchased from the same  place on the same day but 
are all on separate receipts, which is unusual. All three  phones are on one receipt; 
the camera on another; accessories  on another. 
Mr V had also advised that one phone had been  used  with a foreign SIM card and 
then advised that the phones hadnt  been  used at all. 
He had also advised that the third phone was already being claimed for by his wife 
under a different (third)  policy.  This claim was then made  to it.
Records showed the phones were supplied in a different country  on a date after the 
reported incident date and all the devices have been registered  after the incident, so 
there is therefore no proof that the devices were ever in Mr Vs possession  at the 
point they were stolen. 
Mr V had initially advised verbally to the other insurer and on his claim form, that the 
travel bag containing two phones, his clothes and other items (not specified) was 
locked when he and his family  went to sleep, and when  he awoke it had gone. He 
then stated on 21 October 2017  following  the decline  of the first claim that he had 
secured the luggage  to the 0 ring on the berth using a chain and padlock, and that 
the chain had been cut and his bag stolen.  When he raised the claims for the third 
Ref: DRN20385292mobile phone and camera he advised  that the items were in a small suitcase and 
secured to the train but he could  not provide evidence of the lock as the thief had 
also taken the chain and padlock.
It has declined the claims  as it believes false and misleading  information has been  
provided, and that in light of the first two mobile  phone claims being accepted Mr V is 
now adding items to the original incident  that have not previously been mentioned  i.e. 
the third mobile  phone (which he only mentioned after, and advised his wife was 
claiming for), but also an expensive camera and the accessories already claimed for 
previously. 
It has also said that one of the phones claimed  for - and purportedly  stolen overseas 
- has been taken into a store  in the UK for repair on 3 October  2018  for a power 
issue.
Assurant told Mr V in June 2018  that it was refusing both claims, as it considered that there  
were a number of inconsistencies which meant it did not agree he had a valid claim under 
the policy. I understand it has not however, cancelled the policy.
Assurant also says it carried  out its investigations within  a reasonable time and doesnt 
consider it has done anything  wrong. 
Mr V doesnt  agree.  In summary  he says: 
he never said there were only two handsets  stolen, only that he wanted to just claim 
(from the first insurer)  for two handsets.  
He did refer to other items having been in the bag and was never asked for an 
itemised list.
The third phone  was intended as a gift to his wife but he had not actually  given it to 
her at the time of the theft, which is why he subsequently claimed for it under his own 
insurance policy. 
He never  mentioned  the camera under the claim  with the other insurer as he doesnt 
have gadget insurance with that insurer. 
He wasnt able to make the claim sooner  as he had things going on in his life, 
including problems  with his back. 
We should listen to the call recordings,  which will demonstrate  he never  said the 
phones had been used. He had misunderstood  the question, when asked the number 
of the phone and thought the handler meant his phone he was using, not the number 
of the phone(s) which  were  stolen. English is not his first language, which might be 
why there was some difficulty  with this.
The first opportunity to discuss how he had secured the bag was only after the first 
claim was rejected. No one had asked him for a detailed  explanation about this 
before. 
The retailer sent an email to confirm that Mr V purchased three  mobile phones from 
him on the same day and which he confirmed hed imported, which  is why they were 
available before the official launch date in the country Mr V bought  them in. This 
evidence was accepted in relation to the first claim.
He has provided  photos  of the boxes of the items claimed  for. They  dont have the 
date or other information on them, because he took them  on his old phone,  
transferred them  onto his computer and wiped them from his phone  as he was giving 
his old phone to his wife. 
He reported  the loss of all these  items  to the train police equivalent  but didnt receive 
any document from them. 
Ref: DRN20385293The store he bought  all the items  from did not have some  items in stock  and thats  
why he had to return to on several occasions  on the same day and is why there are 
different invoices. 
If the claims-handlers dont believe him, why have they not asked for the phones it 
provided, under the other  insurance claim, back?
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and did not recommend the complaint  be 
upheld. The adjudicator was satisfied that the inconsistencies raised by Assurant meant 
there was not enough evidence to support Mr Vs claims for the camera  and third mobile 
phone. 
Mr V doesnt  accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make a valid claim under an insurance  policy a claimant is usually required to 
provide proof that they own the items they are claiming  for, that they had them in their 
possession and that they were stolen from them in the way reported. 
Mr V has given  explanations for the issues raised  by Assurant. However,  given the number 
of issues raised, it is understandable that Assurant does not consider the claim  should  be 
met. I have considered  the explanations given by Mr V, however, I am not persuaded that 
they are sufficient for me to require Assurant to meet  this claim. 
Mr V is effectively  asking Assurant to give him the benefit of the doubt about a number of 
issues: that language difficulties are the reason why he initially referred to a non-UK SIM 
card being  used in one of the phones; the different  invoices; the time lapse before claiming 
for the camera and other phone; and the different accounts about how the bag was secured. 
Where a claimant is asking us to take their word in such  a way, it is important that there  be 
nothing else that would  tend to cast doubt  on the claim. In this case  there is also the issue  of 
the provenance of the phones. The other insurer met the first claim, despite the same 
concern about  this but I have seen  no convincing evidence  to explain why the phones are 
recorded as having been supplied in another country after the date Mr V says he bought 
them. I have considered the email  Mr V provided from the retailer but this does not state who 
they imported  the phones  from or any other details that would verify that. 
Given this and all the other concerns about  the claim, I do not consider I can safely require 
Assurant to meet the claim.     
Ref: DRN20385294Mr V is also unhappy with the time taken to deal with the claim and the way it was handled. I 
am satisfied  that Assurant  was entitled  to make the investigations  it did and do not consider 
that it caused any unnecessary delay.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2038529