K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains that she wasnt registered  as the keeper of a car supplied with finance from 
Black Horse  Limited.
background 
In December 2016 Ms D was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse.
Ms D used the car for a year.  In December 2017 she tried to tax it but was unable to as the 
car wasnt registered in her name.
Ms D contacted the supplying dealer and asked for the log book so she could register the 
car in her name. The dealer  agreed  to order this. It also offered to MOT  the car, tax the car 
and cover a month of insurance as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms D didnt accept the supplying  dealers offer. Communication between Ms D and the 
supplying dealer broke down and she complained to Black  Horse.
Black Horse  upheld the complaint and offered £1000 as a gesture of goodwill. Ms D wasnt 
happy with the response.  She said the car hadnt been on the road since December 2017 
because she couldnt tax it. She wanted  Black Horse to allow  her to reject the car and refund 
all the payments shed  made under the agreement.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he could only consider  the actions of Black 
Horse, not the supplying  dealer. He said that by law its the sellers  responsibility to tell DVLA  
about a change of registered  keeper  and that Ms D was entitled to expect the supplying 
dealer to have  done what it ought  to have done. The investigator  said he didnt think  Black 
Horse had done enough to make sure the supplying dealer had told DVLA  that Ms D was the 
new keeper. He recommended that Black  Horse request a new logbook and ensure that the 
car was registered to Ms D as soon as possible. The investigator  also said Black Horse 
should reimburse Ms Ds payments from December 2017 until the car was registered in her 
name.
Ms D didnt agree. She felt that because of the length of time the car had been off the road it 
should be checked over and any necessary repairs covered  by Black Horse. She was also 
unhappy that shed lost out on a years  worth of warranty cover and a years worth of 
paint/wheel insurance whilst she hadnt been able to drive  the car. 
The supplying dealer advised  Black  Horse that it would  collect  the car and carry out a full 
check. It said it would carry out any necessary repairs and charge these to Black  Horse. It 
agreed to cover the costs of a years warranty and offered to set up a new paint/wheel  
insurance (or alternatively to refund the cost of the paint/wheel insurance).
Ms D wasnt  willing to accept the offer. She said shed  recently  discovered that the car hadnt 
been taxed at all during  the first year and shed been driving  it illegally. She felt that the 
implications of this were very serious. She said shed assumed that the car had been taxed 
in the first year because  shed paid £130  to the dealership  to tax it. Ms D said shed received 
a fine from DVLA and she was now going to SORN the car. She felt that the failure to tax the 
car in the first year was so significant  that she now wanted to reject the car.
Ref: DRN25472972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that Im unable  to look at the actions of the supplying  dealer, even 
thought I appreciate that Ms D is unhappy  about a number of the dealers failings. What I am 
able to look at is the finance agreement with Black Horse,  and at whether Black Horse  has 
acted fairly  and reasonably in relation to matters arising  from that agreement.
I can see that when  Ms D complained to Black Horse about the supplying  dealers failure to 
register the car to her, Black Horse contacted the dealer.  I dont know exactly what  was 
discussed but by the time Black Horse issued its final response  the dealer still hadnt  
registered the car to Ms D.
Under the relevant law, its the sellers responsibility to tell DVLA about  a change  of keeper. 
So I think it was reasonable for Ms D to expect that the dealer would comply with its 
obligations under  the law and process  the change of keeper documents promptly.  
In the circumstances the supplying dealer failed to comply with its legal obligations. Black 
Horse has a vested interest in the signatory to the agreement (Ms D) being the registered 
keeper of the car, so I think it should  have done  more to make  sure the supplying dealer 
submitted the necessary paperwork to DVLA. Because  of this, I think  Black Horse should  
take steps to put things right. If it hasnt already happened,  Black  Horse should make  sure 
that a new logbook is requested for the car and ensure that the car is registered  to Ms D as 
soon as possible.
In relation to the taxing of the car, its the buyers responsibility to tax a car before it is driven.  
So it was Ms Ds obligation to ensure the car had been taxed, whether by herself or by the 
dealer. I appreciate that Ms D says she paid £130 to the dealer to tax the car but I think she 
should have followed  up with a request for paperwork  to make sure that the car had actually 
been taxed.
That said,  I understand that Ms D was left in a situation where she wasnt  able to tax the car 
in December 2017. Because she couldnt tax the car, Ms D hasnt driven  the car. Despite not 
driving the car shes continued to make  the payments  due under the agreement.
Black Horse  has offered  to put things  right by:
Collecting the car and arranging  for it to have  a health check
Carrying out any necessary repairs
Covering the cost of a years warranty
Setting up a new agreement for paint/wheel insurance
Black Horse  has also agreed to reimburse Ms Ds payments from December 2017 until the 
car is registered in her name.
Its not clear from the information available to me whether the car has now been registered  in 
Ms Ds name. If this hasnt  happened,  Black  Horse will need to reimburse Ms Ds payments 
until shes been registered as the keeper.  
Ref: DRN25472973Once the car has been checked  and any necessary repairs carried out Ms D will need to 
take responsibility for taxing the car, if she hasnt already  done  so.
I appreciate that this has been a frustrating  time for Ms D and I understand why she wants  to 
reject the car. But taking  all of the circumstances of the case into consideration, I dont think 
there are grounds for rejection. Nor do I think that Ms D should  have  all of her payments 
refunded, because although the car apparently  had no tax, she did have normal use of the 
car during the first year. 
Everything considered,  I think  the offer by Black Horse is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Black Horse Limited must:
Request a new log book for the car and ensure the car is registered to Ms D as soon 
as possible
Arrange for the car to be collected  and undergo  a complete health  check
Carry out any necessary repairs
Reimburse Ms D the costs of a years warranty
Arrange and meet the costs of new paint/wheel  insurance
Reimburse Ms Ds payments from December  2017 until the car is (or was)  registered 
in her name
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2547297