K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  took too long to release her 
savings, and she missed  out on other opportunities.
background
Mrs S told us that she had a two year fixed rate bond with Halifax that matured early in 2018.  
But she said that it took Halifax about a month  and a half to release the money. She said 
that she had missed out on other  investment opportunities that she wanted to take 
advantage of in that time. And she said that shed also missed out on using her ISA 
allowance for 2017-18  because of the delay. She said that Halifax had paid her some  
compensation for this, but she didnt  think it was enough. 
Halifax said that Mrs S told it in late February  what she wanted to do with the money in her 
Fixed Saver,  which was due to mature on 28 February  2018.  But Halifax couldnt verify her 
signature so it asked her to visit a branch with identification.
Mrs S did that on 5 March. Halifax said that the branch shouldve arranged  to close the 
account there and then and transferred the funds for Mrs S. But it didnt. 
On 6 April Mrs S got back in touch  with Halifax to say that the account  had still not been 
closed. Halifax said it wrote to ask how she had planned to reinvest the funds. It offered to 
pay any interest shed lost out on because of its mistake. 
Mrs S said that she would have reinvested  with in a five year bond,  with a named business.  
She also mentioned  she had been  intending  on using some of the money from the account 
for her ISA allowance  for the 2017/2018 tax year.
Mrs S told Halifax that if she had been able to invest this money she would  have invested  in 
a long-term bond  on 29 March  with an interest  rate of 3.5%. She would have  earned  
£1,557.00 in interest for the first year. But Halifax said that couldnt be right.  The interest  that 
Mrs S said she would earn was on the entire  balance of her closed Halifax account.  So there 
wouldnt have been any money left to pay into an ISA for that tax year. 
Halifax also sent us evidence that showed  the interest rate that Mrs S said she wouldve 
achieved with this other  business wasnt available in March.  In March,  that business  offered 
five year bonds at 2.8%. The rate increased  after this. 
Halifax said that it thought that the rate Mrs S quoted was one she had seen  some  time after 
the date that her investment shouldve been  paid to her. It also said that it didnt know why 
shed waited about a month between going into the branch, and getting back in touch to say 
that she hadnt received the money yet. 
Halifax said it did think that it had let Mrs S down because the branch didnt arrange the 
closure of her account. So it had paid her £75.00 for that.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that hed checked with the business 
that Mrs S said that she was planning  to invest with, and it didnt  offer a rate of 3.5% until 
April. She couldnt  have  made that investment in March. And she hadnt invested the money 
from her Halifax  account with that business  in the end. Shed  put it into an account  
elsewhere, earning 1.45%. She did that in June.  
Ref: DRN24637052Our investigator said that he didnt think that Halifaxs delay prevented  Mrs S from investing 
her money in the way she eventually did. He asked  if she could show  Halifax that the 
account shed  first held the money  in (before she moved it, in June) paid more than Halifax 
was paying in March. If so, he said he would  expect Halifax  to compensate her for any 
difference, between  5 March (when  she had verified  her signature) and 18 April (when  
Halifax released the money). 
But it didnt seem the delay prevented her from investing for five years at 3.5%, so he didnt 
think he could use that as the basis for calculating compensation.
Mrs S asked if wed considered that she wasnt able to use her ISA allowance for 2017/18.  
Our investigator said that Mrs S did have quite a lot of money elsewhere. That was in a joint 
account, so it might  not all be hers. But he couldnt just assume  that she didnt  have enough 
other money  to take advantage of her personal  ISA allowance  in 2017/2018. He also said 
that if she was planning  to use this money  for her ISA allowance,  then he wouldve expected 
her to get in touch  with Halifax to find out where the money was before that tax year ended. 
Mrs S replied that Halifax had only paid her for its poor service.  It had offered to pay for any 
interest shed lost out on, and it still hadnt  done that. She said that she didnt have other 
money to use for her 2017/18 ISA allowance. And she said that she didnt think she 
shouldve chased  that money sooner. She said shes a busy  person, and assumed that large  
financial institutions were  mandated  by the regulator  to treat customers  fairly. She said that 
she had chased  Halifax as soon as her precious time permitted.
Our investigator understood that the £75 was offered as redress  for poor service, but he 
thought that, plus Halifaxs  offer to pay any interest shed missed out on, was sufficient 
compensation overall. He said he still hadnt  seen any evidence of an actual financial loss. 
Until she provided Halifax with evidence  of this, he didnt feel there was more it could 
reasonably be expected  to do. 
Mrs S said that if an ISA allowance isnt used, then its forfeited  forever.  So she said that she 
had unquestionably sustained a significant  financial loss as a result.  
Mrs S wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Halifax accepted  it made  a mistake,  because  it kept Mrs Ss savings for too long.  It has paid 
Mrs S £75 to make  up for that. It also offered to pay Mrs S any interest  shed lost out on. 
The interest rate that Mrs S said she was going to get elsewhere, during the time that Halifax  
had her money, wasnt actually available at that time. And she said she was going to split 
her money between an ISA and a bond, but she asked for compensation based on a years  
interest for the full amount of that money, invested in the bond. 
Ref: DRN24637053I think it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to refuse  to pay the amount that Mrs S asked for. I 
also think it wasnt unreasonable for it to say, because shed asked for a full year of interest,  
rather than a few weeks, and because shed based that on an interest rate that wasnt 
available at the time, that it would now like to see rather  more  robust  evidence  of her losses. 
Mrs S hasnt provided that evidence. Shes  asked  me to take account of the fact that she 
wouldve invested as much as she could in an ISA, in the 2017/18 tax year. But she hasnt 
shown Halifax evidence  that she had plans to do that, and hasnt mentioned any specific ISA 
investment that she planned to make. 
I think its more likely that not that if Mrs S had intended to invest her money in an ISA during 
the 2017/18 tax year,  that she wouldve chased Halifax to find out where her money had 
gone, and why it hadnt been paid to her, before that tax year ended. 
I know that Mrs S has now paid her money into a joint savings account,  which  earns 1.45%. 
But she didnt do that until about the middle  of June.  The money was paid to her in the 
middle of April. 
I know that Mrs S wasnt able to invest her money  elsewhere, before the middle of April,  
because Halifax hadnt released it to her before then. But for me to ask Halifax to pay Mrs S 
compensation for missed investments during that time, I would  have to decide that its more 
likely than not that Mrs S wouldve invested  that money elsewhere during that time. I dont 
think, on the basis of the evidence Ive seen in this case, that I can reach that conclusion.  
I know that Halifax had offered  to pay Mrs S any interest shed  lost out on. But from what Ive 
seen so far, Ive explained that dont  think that Im able to conclude that its more likely than 
not that she has lost out on any interest.  So I dont  think that Halifax has made a mistake by 
not paying Mrs S more  than the £75 in compensation that shes  already received. 
I know that Mrs S will be disappointed, but for the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont think 
her complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2463705