K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains about the advice Just Retirement Solutions Limited  now HUB  Financial 
Solutions Limited  gave  her and her late husband, Mr D, about making a lump-sum 
payment to their lifetime mortgage.
The late Mr Ds daughter,  Mrs K, brings this complaint on Mrs Ds behalf.
background 
Mr and Mrs D took out a lifetime  or equity release  mortgage in 2004. They borrowed 
£30,000 at a lifetime  fixed rate of 6.74%. No regular payments were required to the 
mortgage, which meant interest rolled up over time.  
A decade  or so later, Mr D was diagnosed  with dementia,  and Mrs D became concerned 
about the amount they owed on the mortgage and the interest accruing. She got in touch 
with the lender, which referred her to HUB  for advice. 
In May 2017, a HUB  adviser visited Mr and Mrs D at their home. Shortly after the meeting, 
Mrs D paid a lump  sum of £30,000  off the mortgage. Mrs K says she did so because  the 
adviser had told Mrs D this would stop interest  accruing on the mortgage. Interest continued 
to be added, so Mrs K complained.
HUB said it had tried its best to help Mr and Mrs D, and it had only given guidance about 
paying down the mortgage, rather than regulated advice. It said it hadnt made a 
recommendation because it was concerned about  Mr Ds dementia and wanted  a power of 
attorney (POA) in place  before proceeding. In any event, it considered the guidance it had 
given was appropriate.
Mrs K referred the matter to us. An ombudsman colleague issued a decision confirming that 
we have the power to consider this complaint. He found that HUB hadnt provided  Mr and 
Mrs D with regulated mortgage advice. However,  he concluded that HUBs advice that Mr 
and Mrs D pay a lump  sum to their mortgage amounted  to debt counselling  which  is a 
regulated activity. 
HUB accepted that, but said it still thought there was nothing  wrong with its advisers 
suggestion that Mr and Mrs D pay a lump sum to the mortgage, as doing so reduced  the 
amount of interest  they would  pay on the mortgage overall  which  is what  they had wanted.
Mrs K accepted the ombudsmans  decision as well, and said she was also concerned about 
the lack of guidance that Mr and Mrs D should  retain a certain level of savings in the event of 
needing to pay for care.  Mr D had since had to move into a care home, and he and Mrs D 
had been left with only £9,000 in cash savings after making the payment to the mortgage. 
She also said no advice  at all should have been given if the adviser  had concerns about  Mr 
Ds capacity. Mr D died in early 2021.
Our investigator concluded that HUB had made a recommendation to Mr and Mrs D without  
a full overview of their circumstances. However, he didnt think they had lost out financially 
as a result, as less interest  had been charged on the mortgage  following the lump-sum  
payment. The investigator recommended HUB pay Mrs D £300 by way of compensation for 
the upset and confusion it had caused.
Ref: DRN27847052HUB said it still felt it had acted in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests, but accepted  that the letter  
it sent following  its advisers meeting with Mr and Mrs D may have been confusing  in terms 
of whether advice  was being given. It agreed to pay £300 to settle  the matter.
Mrs K, on Mrs Ds behalf, didnt accept the investigators conclusion. She didnt think £300  
went far enough for all the distress and upset  that had been  caused, and for what she 
considered to be the illegal and wrong  advice HUB had given. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to pass on my condolences to Mrs K and Mrs D for the loss of Mr D. I was 
sorry to read about their situation  I can see that they have been through  a number of very 
difficult years dealing  with various  health  problems, made even harder recently against the 
background of the Covid-19 pandemic.
There doesnt appear now to be any real dispute  that HUB gave Mr and Mrs D advice when 
its adviser visited them in 2017. I find the letter it sent them  after the meeting was set out in 
those terms. It referred to the advisers  recommendation and said:  if you wish to reduce the 
roll-up interest on your existing borrowing you should consider using your savings to pay off 
a lump sum. 
Mrs D was concerned about the interest  accruing on the mortgage and had received advice 
from an expert, so it follows that she went ahead  and made a lump-sum  payment to the 
mortgage soon  afterwards. I think it unlikely, though, that the adviser  told her interest would 
stop altogether  if she paid back the £30,000 capital  sum she and Mr D had originally 
borrowed. Thats not reflected in the advisers  subsequent letter  to Mr and Mrs D, and its not 
how this type of mortgage works.  Interest is compounded  and continues  to accrue on the 
remaining balance following a part-payment.
Importantly, less interest has been  added to the mortgage as a result  of the £30,000  
payment  so Mrs D hasnt lost out financially. The lender has told us that, by the end of 
2020, the payment had saved her and the late Mr D around £8,000 in interest. There was 
also no early repayment  charge  for making  the payment.
Mrs K has pointed  out that, following the £30,000 payment, Mr and Mrs D were left with 
comparatively little in cash  savings   which would have resulted in costs  had they needed to 
borrow in order to pay for Mr Ds care. I can certainly understand her point, and this is the 
sort of thing I would  expect an adviser  to take into consideration when giving advice. 
Our investigator made  enquiries  of the lender about whether Mrs D could draw  down the 
£30,000 from the mortgage again, having  repaid it. The lender said it would  consider  offering 
this, subject to Mrs D receiving independent advice  and this being the most suitable option.  
This wouldnt mean interest  would be added for the period  between  the date Mrs D made the 
payment and the date the money were drawn down again. Mrs K has quite  rightly  pointed 
out that that wouldnt be fair.
Circumstances have  of course unfortunately changed, and Mrs D has said she doesnt need 
to borrow back the £30,000. I recognise that had things  turned out differently  Mrs D may 
have had to borrow  money because she no longer had the £30,000  in savings, and that 
Ref: DRN27847053would have come  at a cost. But those costs havent  arisen, and Mrs D has made a 
significant interest saving  on the mortgage  by making the lump-sum  payment  far more  
than any interest she could have received from a standard savings account.
For these reasons, I find that there  has been  no financial loss to Mrs D as a result  of HUBs 
advice. I also consider HUB was reasonable in not looking into alternative mortgage 
arrangements for Mr and Mrs D in 2017.  It had to take account of Mr Ds health and his 
capacity to understand any advice. Its records show it had concerns about that, which  is why 
it suggested Mrs D arrange  a POA. It said it could then look at other  lenders and whether 
better interest rates might be available.  
Thats not to say HUB didnt get things  wrong   I think  it did, and it gave advice  when it 
shouldnt have done. This was at a time when Mr and Mrs D were particularly vulnerable, 
and it has caused  upset and distress at an already difficult time. I think Mrs D should fairly 
receive some compensation in recognition of that.
Compensating for non-financial loss isnt an exact science, and this service  isnt the 
regulator. It isnt for me to fine or punish  financial businesses, or tell them how they must 
operate. In all the circumstances,  while I realise Mrs K and Mrs D will be disappointed,  I 
consider a payment of £300 compensation represents a fair outcome. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HUB  Financial  Solutions  Limited should pay Mrs D £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2021.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2784705