K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling  of claims shes made about 
potential subsidence  under her buildings insurance  policy
background
Ms B has long-standing concerns about cracking  in and around her property. She believes 
this damage is likely to be caused by subsidence, and shes  made a number  of claims to 
CIS. In response, it arranged for a number of inspections  to take place at her property. This 
decision only relates to CIS handling  of Ms Bs claim after August  2017.
Ms B was unhappy  with the findings  of previous reports, which  didnt indicate subsidence was 
the likely  cause of cracking in and around  the property. As a result,  Ms B and her representative 
arranged for another inspection to be carried out. This took place  in spring  2018.
The overall conclusion  from the report was that the damage to the cellar and front light well 
was predominantly  caused by lateral  movement of the retained soil at the front of the 
property. The report concluded  these movements had been  exacerbated by seasonal root-
induced shrinkage  and swelling in underlying clay subsoil. 
The report  was sent to CIS for consideration. However, in its final response  letter  said CIS 
still did not uphold  Ms Bs complaint. This was on the basis  the report concluded the 
dominant cause of the damage was lateral  movement, which was not subsidence of the site, 
as the movement was not downward  caused  by the weight  of the building.
Ms Bs representative wasnt  satisfied  with this response and referred the matter  to this 
service. He said the property was continuing to show signs  of movement, so asked their expert 
to provide some follow up comments  on this. In November 2018,  their expert said in respect  of 
the cellar wall that the lateral pressure from the garden soil is derived from gravity  i.e. a 
tendency for the soil to move downwards,  I think this mechanism can be called a landslip. 
CIS referred  back to the engineers report it carried out in February 2017. It repeated the previous 
claims had been  declined based on a lack of subsidence damage and that the dominate cause 
was the lateral  movement  of the wall. They also said Ms B had been  advised on a number of 
occasions to mitigate  the damage  to the front cellar, which has been  documented as occurring 
over a number of years. They said they remained of the view that the dominant cause of the 
damage was lateral movement of the walls, which wasnt an insured event. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Bs complaint but concluded CIS had acted fairly in 
declining the claim.  He said that he thought the most recent report  didnt demonstrate Ms Bs 
property had suffered  from either subsidence  or landslip. As this matter remains unresolved, 
its been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN28385102As the investigator  noted, Ms Bs policy doesnt define subsidence or landslip. So, like him, 
Ive considered the industry standard definitions published by the Financial Services  
Authority (FSA) in 2011:
Subsidence:  Downward  movement of the ground beneath the buildings  other than 
by settlement.
Landslip: Downward movement of sloping ground.
The report  Ms Bs expert provided set out the cracks that had been found, and they reached a 
conclusion the evidence available indicated these were impacted by seasonable change. The 
engineer noted  the nearby vegetation  and its proximity  to Ms Bs property. However,  it seems  that 
the outcome of the investigation  didnt conclude with certainty the vegetation had a significant 
impact on the property, or soil or was the definitive  cause of the cracking and movement.  
I note the report also indicated some downward  movement.  However, this appears to be a 
minor contributing factor when considering  the damage to the cellar wall. Again, this report 
supports the findings that the dominant cause  of damage to the cellar  wall was lateral 
pressure from the soil outside the wall. And, like the investigator, Im more persuaded the 
evidence available  suggests the dominant cause of the damage was more likely as a result 
of the lateral movement  of the soil than the downward movement of the property.
I appreciate Ms Bs representative  feels strongly  the dominate cause  of the damage to the 
cellar could have  been caused  by downward  movement of sloping ground. The report 
doesnt show this, and I dont think it demonstrates the ground moved down a slope, or that 
the underlying  cause  of the damage  would be considered a landslip.
While Ms Bs expert  report  does  identify there  is some evidence  of movement in the property, 
Im mindful of the fact this was also identified in another independent report  completed in 
2017. However, the overall conclusion from that report was the property was in a poor state of 
repair, and that was likely to be the cause  of the cracking. On balance,  Im not persuaded the 
most recent report by Ms Bs engineer  is more  persuasive than the report carried  out in 2017 
in terms of identifying  the cause of cracking and potential movement in the property.
Having considered all the information,  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as our investigator,  
and for the same  reasons,  which is that CIS were entitled to decline the claim under the 
policy terms. It follows that Im not going  to recommend it pay Ms Bs claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2838510