K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in February  1996. Ms B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Ms B bought the policies  in February  1996  at the same time as applying for two credit cards 
 a Visa and a Mastercard. A separate PPI policy was attached to each card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why below.
Ms B says she was sold the PPI policies during a meeting. She recalls being  given the 
Mastercard during  the meeting and was later sent the Visa card in the post.
Based on what Ive seen  I think its more  likely  the credit cards  and the PPI polices were 
taken out when Ms B applied for them by way of a postal application. I say this because Ive 
seen a copy of Ms Bs credit agreement. Looking at the credit card application form and 
using what we know generally about Barclays sales practices at the time of sale, Im 
satisfied that the application form Ms B completed  is consistent  with the forms Barclays used 
for their postal sales. Ive also noted that the credit card application was stamped as 
received by Barclays a few days after Ms B signed it, which is what  wed usually expect to 
see with postal applications. 
I think Barclays made Ms B aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. On the credit card application  form, under the section headed Payment 
Protection Plan, I can see Ms B had the option  of selecting whether or not she wanted the 
PPI added to her card. Theres a tick in the box next to the statement Yes,  I want my 
Barclaycard account(s) to be covered against unemployment, accident, sickness and death. 
So, I think its more likely  Ms B agreed to the PPI, knowing she had a choice.
Barclays says it didnt  recommend that Ms B take out the PPI. Ms B on the other hand says 
it did. So Ive thought about  what both parties  have said, taking into account the available 
information from the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Barclays assessed Ms Bs circumstances at the time and recommended  that Ms B take 
out the PPI. This means Barclays didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to 
make sure Ms B got the information  she needed  to decide if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN28971522Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been  particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Ms B chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover,  such as pre-existing medical  conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Ms B has told us she would have  received  some  sick pay from her employer if she was too 
unwell to work, but cant recall how much or for how long. So, Ive thought  about how much 
sick pay Ms B would likely  have received from her employer  taking into account the type of 
position she held,  the industry in which her employer operated and the length  of time she 
worked for her employer. Based on this, I dont think the sick pay Ms B was likely to have  
been entitled to would  have meant  that PPI wasnt useful for her. I say this because  the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms B would  have received from her employer 
and would have  paid out for up to 12 months.  The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Ms B 
was ever made redundant or in the event of death.
So overall, I think Ms B could have found the policies useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information  would have put her off from taking out the 
policies.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI on Ms Bs credit cards because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all
of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Barclays  does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums on Ms Bs credit cards.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2897152