K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy as hes discovered  that hes being paying for a buildings and contents 
insurance policy from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  since  2005 that he says he 
never knew he had. Further  to this Mr L has questioned why the premiums  were so high. He 
says he was insured  elsewhere for cheaper,  and he wants a refund  of premiums. 
background
Mr L sold his property in 2015 and thats  when he says discovered there was a buildings and 
contents insurance policy linked to his mortgage. The policy  had started in 2005,  when hed 
remortgaged his property  and had continued  until the property was sold in 2015. 
Mr L says he had no knowledge of this policy, and he wasnt aware he was paying for it. He 
says that he had another policy  in place from 2010  with another provider and hes concerned 
that the premium was being added to his mortgage  without his knowledge,  thus increasing  
what he owed. 
Halifax say the policy was discussed at the sale of the mortgage and its provided  paperwork 
to say the insurance  policy was required. Halifax also point out that Mr L wouldve received 
an annual statement, which  shows that insurance  premiums were  applied  to the overall 
mortgage balance along with the total amount of interest charged  for the year. In addition  to 
this, insurance renewal documents were sent which  confirm that interest would be charged  
on any unpaid premiums. But Mr L says he has no recollection of seeing this in any of the 
documentation hes received. 
Before this complaint  came to me for decision, Halifax  made an offer to Mr L to settle the 
complaint. In total Halifax have offered to refund £2,467.08 made up of different refunds. Our 
investigator reviewed that offer and he thought the offer was fair.
Mr L doesnt agree  with the amount being  refunded and has requested an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was the policy mis-sold?
Halifax say a policy was necessary to take out the mortgage and that it was discussed with 
Mr L at the time. Halifax have provided the mortgage offer and a printout of the information  
discussed from the time of sale. 
But Mr L says he has no recollection of taking  this policy.  He says it was hidden  in the 
repayments and he wasnt aware  of it. He says he had another  policy from another provider 
from 2010, and hed never  have taken out this other policy  if hed known  he was already 
insured. 
Looking through the questions asked in 2005 alongside the mortgage offer, its clear  
insurance cover was discussed. Some answers have  been left blank, so its difficult to know 
exactly what was said. But based on the evidence available, I dont think the policy  was mis-
Ref: DRN23361532sold. When  Mr L took out his mortgage, he needed home insurance cover. And the bank 
made it clear  in the mortgage offer that he didnt have to take out its product. The original 
mortgage offer says insurance cover is a condition of the mortgage, but it also says, You  do 
not need to buy any insurance through  Halifax plc. This offer letter was addressed to Mr L at 
the property  address, and hes now confirmed  that he has no evidence  of there being  any 
other cover in place  at the time the mortgage  started. So, Im satisfied that these policies 
were correctly put in place, and that Mr L was made aware  of them,  even if he doesnt recall  
it now. 
mortgage linked policy
For a period of time in 2008, Mr L moved  from paying his mortgage in full to paying it on an 
interest only basis. In 2009 he resumed paying  in full, but at this point the bank  made  an 
error and a separate payment  for the insurance wasnt set up. Instead the premium  was 
added to the mortgage up to February  2013.  
Halifax have said that having  insurance  cover was a requirement  of the mortgage, so cover 
needed to be in place.  But its error meant  it wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been  that there 
was a policy  in place.  And as Halifax cannot determine whether  Mr L wouldve continued to 
pay the premium or went elsewhere, because he didnt realise how much  he was paying, it 
wants to offer Mr L 50% of the premium  charged as a refund, as a resolution  for its error.  I 
dont know what Mr L wouldve  done  at the time. But in the circumstances, I think the offer to 
refund 50% plus interest is fair. 
Halifax have calculated  this part of the refund to total £1,289.73. This figure makes up 50% 
of the premiums Mr L paid when the policy was linked to the mortgage for the years  2009-
2013. An interest  refund of £330.30  is also included in this amount. I appreciate that Mr L 
feels a larger premium was added  to his final mortgage repayment.  But Halifax has provided 
a breakdown, and I can see that the majority of this additional cost is to do with non-payment 
of interest and fees in the years 2008  2010,  and the insurance made up a smaller portion 
of the additional charges. 
premiums paid and dual insurance
Ive also looked at the premiums paid on this policy since 2005, to see if they are fair. I dont 
have the power  to tell a business what its insurance should have cost.  I would be, in effect  
determining or telling  a business  how it should operate   and thats not my role. But I can 
look at whether Halifax  has treated Mr L fairly  throughout  the period he held his insurance 
policy. And Id need to consider whether what Halifax  has offered is sufficient to put right any 
unfairness
In 2005  Mr L was paying £306.25.  By 2015 his renewal was £800.00. As Mr L says he was 
unaware of this policy,  no claims were  ever made.  But the premium was increasing  annually 
regardless of this. And if I thought  Halifax should have realised Mr L wasnt the type of 
person who shopped around for cheaper insurance regularly, and I thought it increased the 
price just because Mr L didnt engage at renewal, that wouldnt be fair. But I dont need  to 
make a finding  on that point in this complaint, as Halifax  has now offered to refund some of 
the insurance premiums  Mr L paid and I think that offer is fair.
Halifax originally offered to refund the difference in premium from the 2013  renewal. And 
Halifax have said that on this basis Mr L wouldve been  due a refund of approximately  
£227.00, as the 2015  premium wasnt paid. 
Ref: DRN23361533But there are two other factors we need  to consider here. The first is the dual policy, and the 
second is the fact that Mr L has already received  a partial refund for 2013. 
Mr L says that in 2010 when his daughter moved in, he took out a home  insurance  policy 
with another provider. Ive only seen documentation from 2011 onwards,  but Im satisfied  
that Mr L had two policies in place to cover his home, when only one was required. And 
because he was dually insured, Halifax has now offered  to refund 50% of the premium  hes 
paid from 2013  to 2015. 
And I think 50% is fair. In a situation where there  are two policies in place, 50% liability rests 
with each  policy, no matter what each policy costs. So, in the event of a claim, each policy  
would be liable for 50% of the cost.  So, its fair that Mr L gets a 50% refund on the premiums  
paid. This amounts  to £677.35.  And as this amount is a higher refund  than the £227 that was 
originally proposed. So, I think that for Halifax to now offer the higher refund is fair. 
I also need to consider the fact that Mr L was dually insured from approximately 2010. But 
hes already  received half of the premium  back  for the years  2010-2013 because of the error 
Halifax originally made, I dont think any further refund  is due from this time.  The calculation 
of the mortgage linked  refund is not an exact  science.  And the likelihood is that Mr L has 
already benefitted by receiving 50% refund. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax  to 
issue another refund on the revised  premiums paid from 2010  2013. Further to this Mr L 
can also now approach  the provider of his other policy and ask it to refund 50% of the 
premium he paid to it during the time he had dual insurance. So, Im satisfied that the 
additional refund  of £677.35, covers any overpayments Mr L may have made. 
In light of what  Ive said above, and having  considered Halifax  offer,  I think  its fair. It 
corrects all the errors that have  been  made and it makes sure Mr L hasnt lost out if Halifax  
did increase the price  unfairly.
I also think Halifaxs additional  compensation offer of £500, for the trouble caused to Mr L, 
including sending correspondence to an old address is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons given above,  Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)s offer to refund some 
of the costs (£1,967.08) of Mr Ls policy is fair.
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)s  additional compensation offer of £500 for the 
trouble caused  to Mr L is also fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2336153