K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly  declined  a claim on 
his professional indemnity insurance.  
background
Mr C is a lawyer.  He made a claim on his professional indemnity insurance  to cover the legal 
costs of defending a legal action against  him. He says its alleged  that he failed to provide a 
duty of care to one of his clients.
The claim was declined  by RSA as it said no client/lawyer relationship existed regarding the 
subject matter of the legal action. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied RSA made  its decision based  
on expert advice. And he said if Mr C wanted  to challenge it, hed need to obtain  expert  
evidence of his own. 
As Mr C didnt  agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided  with a copy of the policy  terms and conditions. I can see the professional  
indemnity insurance  will indemnify Mr C, as a lawyer, in respect of claims or alleged  claims 
made against him for any civil liability incurred in connection with his practice named in the 
policy schedule. 
I understand Mr C had agreed  to buy another law firm from R. The agreement was that he 
would take a lease on the business premises and buy all the assets of the firm, including the 
goodwill. But R insisted that Mr C have  a guarantor in place for the transactions. So he 
asked a family member,  Mr D to act as guarantor. 
Mr C says that Mr D agreed to be a guarantor  but asked Mr C to act on his behalf in a 
professional capacity. Mr C doesnt  recall  sending out a letter of retainer or opening a file for 
Mr D, but says a client/lawyer relationship was established as hed acted as his lawyer on 
previous occasions.
For reasons that I wont go into, payments werent  maintained to R. R took legal action 
against Mr D as the guarantor. Mr C was included within the proceedings as a third party 
and wanted to claim on his policy for any liability relating to these  proceedings.
What I need to decide is whether Mr C has done  enough  to prove his claim under his policy.  
And whether RSA has fairly declined it. 
The policy covers Mr C for liability  (including legal costs) that he incurs  in relation to his legal 
practice. So if someone takes legal action against  Mr C in relation to legal work hes carried 
out as part of his practice,  hes potentially covered for that. Mr D alleged that Mr C failed in 
his duty of care to him as a client as he didnt explain  the risks of agreeing to provide a 
Ref: DRN26577652guarantee. So to prove his claim, Mr C needs to show these proceedings relate  to his legal 
practice. 
He says they do. But RSA has taken legal advice which says the claim doesnt fall within  the 
policy terms as Mr C wasnt acting for Mr D in a professional capacity; there is no file, letter  
of retainer or bill of costs  for Mr D in relation to this transaction. On this basis, he wasnt 
acting as a lawyer in connection with his practice  - it says this was a business deal and not 
something that arose from his profession.  
From everything Ive seen, Im not satisfied  Mr C has proved his claim.  Its his responsibility 
to show RSA that he has a valid claim under the policy terms. I havent seen anything  that 
evidences this. RSA has sought legal advice  which supports its decision to decline the claim 
on the basis there is no evidence of a client/lawyer relationship. Without  a conflicting legal 
opinion, I think RSA entitled to rely on that advice.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657765