K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 2008  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £600 a month towards Mr Bs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £35.70  a month.  
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a stableman. He has told us he was entitled  to up to 
three months sick pay from his employer  and would have received redundancy pay if his 
employment had been terminated.   But he didnt have  any other means  of repaying his 
mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr B has said he had had some medical conditions 
prior to the sale of the policy.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage started in November 2008.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN25682222The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN25682223General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Barclays  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN25682224-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
The sale of the policy took place in a meeting and copies of the forms completed during that 
meeting have been provided. There is a detailed collection of information form for the 
mortgage about Mr Bs personal circumstances which was completed  based on Mr Bs 
responses in that meeting. On that form it is indicated Mr B requested  discussion and 
information about PPI. Choices  were  also recorded relating to the type of cover, the amount  
of benefit and the length of time the benefit would pay out in the case of a claim. This would 
indicate Mr B was aware the PPI was optional.
After the meeting a full quote summarising the cover and options chosen were  sent to Mr B 
which indicated the quote was only valid for a specific period  of time if Mr B wanted to go 
ahead with the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr B knew the policy  was optional and 
He agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Both Barclays and Mr B agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr B with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Barclays took some steps to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. The adviser had information about  some of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr B had a need for the policy  by 
asking questions about his wider circumstances  such as any health issues  and existing 
means  I cannot be certain it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable.
For example, it is unclear  if Mr Bs long and short-term protection  needs were considered 
fully and there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps to fully establish 
whether Mr B would  have  been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations  which 
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN25682225While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr B was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for any redundancy benefits and sick 
pay benefits he says he would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B, as the 
documents indicate he chose a level of benefit  that he said met his monthly budget  
needs, rather than the recommended benefit  cover. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Bs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr B has told us about two 
medical conditions  he had prior to the start of the policy,  one in 1991 and a second  in 
2005. But these  dont appear to be caught by the specific terms and conditions  on 
limitations and exclusions  as they were  more than 12 months before the start of the 
policy. The demands and needs  statement also highlights Mr B had been treated for 
a condition in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy  and it was indicated  to him 
he may not be covered for that condition. However, if conditions did not reoccur or 
were treated within two years prior to a claim, the exclusion did not apply. There were 
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health or back  problems. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy,  such as the requirement 
that Mr B be disabled or unemployed  for 60 days before he could make  a claim and 
the fact the policy  would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each 
claim, the policy still provided  valuable cover given:
Mr Bs circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr B be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. The quote 
Ref: DRN25682226and the demands  and needs statement sent to Mr B prior to him entering the contract  of 
insurance, set out not only the monthly cost for the cover Mr B had indicated,  but also set out 
the total cost for that level of cover over 2, 5, 10, 20 and 21 years,  the term of the mortgage 
being 21 years. So I consider Mr B should have been aware of the costs of the policy.  It is 
also clear from the documents that Mr B chose the level of monthly benefit cover at a lower 
amount than that recommended,  so he was aware  of the level of cover  he had.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave sufficient 
information about the full exclusions  or limitations  before Mr B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B Im not persuaded Barclays did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Barclays gave Mr B all of the information  He 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN25682227While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr B, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr B would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr B was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN25682228cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr B says he had some medical conditions in 
1991 and 2005 these  would not have affected a claim  on the policy. 
Also, it is noted on the demands  and needs  statement  that Mr B told Barclays of a medical  
condition which had been treated in the 12 months  prior to when the PPI was taken out and 
he was informed the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had he needed time off work 
because of this condition. So as Mr B was given some specific  information,  I dont think  
better information about this exclusion would have put him off agreeing  to take out the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do his job or any 
similar job which in the insurers view, he was reasonably qualified  to do, it might have given 
him pause for thought.   However, given Mr Bs circumstances  and the limited  other  means 
he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt  working,  on balance, I still think  he would have 
been interested in taking out the cover. 
Mr B chose that any claim period would be for 24 months, rather  than 12 months,  so he 
should have been aware that any claim he made would be limited to a 24-month period. 
In those circumstances, I consider Mr B thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly  
mortgage payments  was of benefit  to him and would  help him manage the consequences 
should he have  been unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the policy.  The policy 
allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce  his outgoings at a difficult and 
uncertain time, ensuring his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr B was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN25682229Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr B, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2008 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr B and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN256822210Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2568222