K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them  
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  and life cover in connection with a mortgage in 
2002 and PPI in relation to a mortgage in 2009.  The mortgages were  jointly  held. Mr and 
Mrs K think  the policies were miss-sold.
background
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be partially upheld.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  passed to me. I issued my provisional 
decision in respect  of this complaint on 14 March 2019, a copy of which  is repeated below, 
and so it forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why 
I was minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.  
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 28 March 2019. At the time of writing  both parties  told us that they 
had received the provisional decision and that they had no further submissions they wished 
to make.  So I am proceeding  to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
2002 sale
Mr and Mrs K say the PPI was added to the account with their consent. But they said that 
they felt that they had to take it to get the mortgage.  Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs K have  
been able to provide any of the documents from the time of the sale. Given  the length  of time 
since the sale, this is understandable. These events occurred over 16 years  ago. And such  
periods of time can make it hard for the parties to recall things with complete accuracy. So 
whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as Mr and Mrs K said,  
considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be 
able to uphold  the complaint on this point. So I think its more  likely that Halifax  wouldve 
made Mr and Mrs K aware  that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even 
though Mr and Mrs K may not remember that now, many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs K  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs K were eligible for the policy  and werent affected by any of 
the exclusions from or limitations  to the PPI cover. And they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. Mr and Mrs K told us that Mr K would have received full pay for six months and 
that Mrs K would have  received full pay for six months and then half pay for six months in 
the event they were  off work through ill health or accident. The PPI policy wouldve paid out 
Ref: DRN29689872on top of any sick pay Mr and Mrs K wouldve received and would have covered them  for up 
to 24 months if they were  unable to work because of accident,  sickness, or if they lost a job. 
And having the PPI would have reduced their reliance on any savings they may have had at 
that time.  So I think they wouldve found the PPI useful.
The policy  cost appears  to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
Halifax sold Mr and Mrs K a life policy which covered them for £62,000 to cover the 
outstanding mortgage balance at the time. Mr and Mrs K had an existing life policy with 
Norwich Union which provided Mr and Mrs K with £50,000 of life cover  on a level term 
basis. So Halifax could have arranged a policy to top up the existing cover.  But the 
Norwich Union policy was due to end in 2012 and that would  have been  two years before 
the mortgage finished. So, had Halifax chosen  to top up the existing policy, its possible 
that in the last two years  of the mortgage  Mr and Mrs K could  have had life cover in place 
that wouldnt have  been sufficient to pay off the mortgage in the event that one of them 
died. 
Mr and Mrs K felt they had no need of any cover as they had substantial  death in service  
benefits from their respective occupational  pension  schemes. Benefits through  an employer 
are arguably  insufficient protection  for liabilities such as mortgages and loans because there 
is usually no guarantee that people remain in the same  job for as long as the term of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mr H may feel that they were very unlikely to change  jobs again  but Im 
afraid this isnt enough for me to be satisfied their benefits through  their employer were 
enough to negate the need for the life protection policy. So, whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs K 
had benefits through their employer, the policy provided a dedicated  source of money  to 
discharge the liability freeing up the benefits provided through  their employers to be used for 
other means  the family  might require. 
Mr and Mrs K also told us about a mortgage  endowment they had which  would have 
been sufficient  to repay the mortgage in the event  of the death  of Mr and Mrs K. 
However, the endowment provider has told us that the policy  was cancelled with the last 
premium being paid in May 2002.  So the policy had already been cancelled  before Mr 
and Mrs K took advice  to take out new life cover in September 2002. 
Overall, Halifax  matched the life cover it sold to the amount and the term of the new 
mortgage it was arranging and so I am not persuaded that it has done  anything wrong. 
So, while I appreciate the comments Mr and Mrs H have made and how strongly they feel 
about this policy being mis-sold, I can see insufficient reason for this. In my view the 
policy was suitable  given their personal  and financial circumstances.  I therefore  cant  say 
that Bank  of Scotland has done anything wrong.
There was a potential  issue with the advice.  In particular, its questionable  whether Mr and 
Mrs K needed level cover  when their loan was due to decrease with their regular 
repayments. This cover wasnt entirely right for Mr and Mrs K, as it wouldnt go down in line 
with their mortgage. So, as the remaining mortgage reduced, the cover wouldve remained 
the same  which means  they were paying for cover they didnt need . A decreasing term 
Ref: DRN29689873assu rance policy wouldve been better  as this type of cover would have reduced  in line 
with the remaining mortgage amount.
Had this been made clear to Mr and Mrs K, I dont think theyd have taken out the life 
cover that Halifax sold them. So, I think Halifax shouldve recom mended a decreasing 
term assur ance instead, as they did have a need  for this type of cover.
But Halifax  has confirmed the monthly premium for a policy  on a decreasing term would 
have been higher than the amount Mr and Mrs K paid for the level term policy  they were 
sold. So on balance, whilst Halifax didnt sell the most appropriate  type of life cover,  I dont 
think that Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result.  
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs K. But I dont think 
theres enough evidence to show the life cover  was mis-sold in the way they described and 
Im satisfied it was not unsuitable advice based on their circumstances  at the time. 
2009 sale
I have noted the demands and needs document dated 5 November 2009 begins  by saying, 
Thank you for choosing optional mortgage  repayments cover (MRC). So, from this and 
from what I know about the way Halifax sold these policies during meetings at this time, I 
think its more likely  that Halifax  wouldve made Mr and Mrs K aware that the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it, even though  Mr and Mrs K may not remember  that 
now, many  years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs K  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs K were eligible for the policy  and werent affected by any of 
the exclusions from or limitations  to the PPI cover. And they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. At this time the policy offered cover  for up to 12 months in the event that either  of 
them lost their job. Mr and Mrs K appear  to have wanted to reduce their cover under this 
policy possibly to reflect their good sick pay arrangements by taking cover  solely  for 
unemployment. And having the cover in case they lost a job would have  reduced  their 
reliance on any savings  they may have had at that time. So I think  they wouldve found the 
PPI useful.
The policy  cost appears  to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
Ive carefully reviewed all of the information  provided  to me. As a result Im not persuaded, 
for the reasons given above, that this policy  was mis-sold.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN29689874my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Ks complaint that the PPI policies and life cover  were  mis-sold, and I make no award 
against Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 26 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2968987