K820x#14complaint
Mr M complaints about how The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  handled the 
transfer of his pension. A valuation he thought was guaranteed fell dramatically upon 
transfer and he is unhappy with the customer service provided.  
background
Mr M had a pension policy with Prudential that began  in the 80s. It was set up with a 
planned retirement date for March 2017, so ahead of that, Prudential sent Mr M a retirement 
pack to explain what his options were. On 11 January  2017,  Prudential sent Mr M a letter  
which set out his annuity offer and quoted  a pension value of £278,311.60.
Mr M began thinking about  his options and got some guidance from a Prudential  adviser.  
She explained that he had three  options;  make a decision  on his own, seek independent 
advice or take restricted advice from them.  
Mr M began exploring options  with an independent adviser. In February and March 2017 he 
received some other  letters from Prudential  these had similar valuation figures to the 
January letter. 
Mr M decided to go ahead with the independent adviser and his application to move his 
pension into a retirement account  was made  in April 2017.
But in May 2017,  Prudential  informed  Mr M that an adviser with specialist qualifications 
needed to be consulted about  some  of the guaranteed benefits Mr M had. So Mr M sought 
advice from another  adviser and the application  was made again.
All of this meant it took longer to move  Mr Ms pension and release his tax-free cash than he 
expected. Both Mr M and the adviser hed initially used made complaints to Prudential. 
When the pension  was transferred, its value had fallen by around £17,000. This was a shock 
to Mr M as he had six letters from Prudential between January and May 2017, all referring to 
valuations between £276,000 and £278,000. So to receive just under £260,000 was an 
unwelcome surprise. 
Prudential looked  into Mr Ms concerns and explained that the reduced value was because  
one of the non-guaranteed bonuses had been  reduced in April 2017.  It did however agree its 
service had fallen  short  as it should  have  given clearer  advice about what options  there  were  
from the outset, it could have had the transfer  done sooner, and could have made  sure 
letters and call backs went to Mr M rather than his adviser. So it paid Mr M £200 to say 
sorry. And it added an interest  payment on the delay with the tax-free  cash. 
But Mr M remained unhappy with both the service  and the value drop  he explained that all 
of the letters  quoted higher figures, even those sent after April 2017,  so he asked for our 
help. An investigator looked into his concerns, but thought Prudential  had done enough to 
put things right. Remaining unhappy, Mr M had the case referred  for review. 
Ref: DRN23091152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
the value of Mr Ms pension
I can understand why Mr M has made his complaint and why he thinks  Prudential  have done 
something wrong. But having looked into his concerns in more  detail, I dont think his loss of 
expectation is based on an error  made by Prudential. 
I say this because  Prudential only sent Mr M one valuation  letter   on 11 January  2017. And 
the only other time they gave  a valuation was when they faxed  Mr Ms adviser on 17 March 
2017. These both quoted the same value which was right at the time.
But on 1 April 2017, Prudential  applied their annual non-guarantee bonus review.  Based on 
performance in 2016/17,  they reduced  the bonus  payable and Mr Ms pension value was 
reduced accordingly.
The letters Mr M received  after this date were not in fact valuation  letters.  Instead, they were 
letters associated with the setting up of the new retirement account  these were  
automatically generated after Mr Ms adviser input an estimated transfer amount. 
Although I understand this might  not be something  he would have spotted at the time,  the 
letters Mr M received after April quoted his retirement  account  number, rather than his 
pension plan number.  
So the letters Mr M received in May 2017 were not valuation letters   they reflected the 
estimated valuations the adviser had used  for the basis of setting  up the retirement  account.  
Because of this, I dont think Prudential made an error with the information  they provided.
guarantees given  by Prudential 
Regardless of the confusion  caused by the new account letters,  Mr M says he was told his 
pension was guaranteed   and he makes  reference  to both what Prudentials  adviser  said 
and what the January  2017 letter said. 
Ive looked closely  at the letter, but it gave a guarantee around the basis  upon  which  
Prudential would calculate Mr Ms annuity,  not that his pension  value  was guaranteed. This 
was so Mr M could shop around other  annuity providers and be able to compare their offers  
on a like for like basis  with what hed get if he took his annuity with Prudential. 
Mr Ms pension  remained  invested and could therefore fluctuate in line with the underlying 
investments. Importantly, the letter also said that values were not guaranteed and could 
change on a daily basis. Because of this, I dont think Prudential gave Mr M a guaranteed 
transfer value.  
But not only was Mr Ms pension value exposed to fluctuation, it was also subject to change  
following Prudentials annual review  of bonuses. As we now know, the April 2017 review 
reduced the non-guaranteed element of Mr Ms pension and this is what  contributed to the 
fall in value which surprised him. 
Ref: DRN23091153But this isnt something Prudential should have warned Mr M about  most pension  
companies review what bonuses they pay each year but the announcement  of any change 
and how its calculated is something thats commercially sensitive and something our service  
wouldnt interfere with. Just as rates went down, they could also have gone up, so even if 
Mr M was aware of an impending change, he wouldnt necessarily have known whether he 
was better  off waiting  until after any announcement or not.
customer service
Mr M is also unhappy with the customer service  hes experienced throughout the transfer. 
Ive tried to consider  his concerns chronologically.
When a Prudential adviser wrote to Mr M in February 2017, in terms of his next steps she 
explained that he had the three options  I mentioned earlier. Mr M is unhappy that he chose 
to go with an independent adviser, only to then find out he needed  to seek  help from a 
specialist and he wants Prudential to pay for the advice. 
I dont think Prudentials adviser gave misleading  guidance  Mr M engaged the services of 
an independent adviser but it was for that adviser  to consider Mr Ms situation to see if they 
were qualified to help or not. It turns out that they were not, so Mr M had to go elsewhere.  
As the features of Mr Ms pension required someone  sufficiently qualified  to consider this 
matter, paying  the second  advisers  fee or another  advisers equivalent is something that will 
always have been  required. If Mr M was also charged  by the initial  adviser, this would have 
been something that he agreed to at the time, and if he is now querying  the justification  of 
any fee he may raise  that with them directly. It was always for Mr M to think about his terms 
of engagement with any third party  thats  not related  to Prudentials role as the product 
provider. 
Prudential recognised it could have been clearer and quicker when giving instructions to 
Mr Ms adviser. But by paying  interest on the delayed tax-free  cash, I think Prudential have 
already reasonably compensated  him for the impact  of this. Prudential also pointed out that 
the delayed transfer benefitted  Mr M as the value of his pension increased just short  of 
£2,000 during the delay.  So as Mr M isnt any worse off, I dont think  Prudential need to do 
any more here.
Mr M is also unhappy with the service  provided.  I can see there was some  confusion on 
Prudentials part as Mr Ms initial adviser first logged a complaint, only for this to be 
reconfirmed and added to by Mr M at a later date. So when Mr M first complained, the 
concerns were amalgamated with the advisers, meaning a complaint acknowledgment letter  
wasnt sent. I understand that Mr M made calls which were unreturned, but Prudential have 
apologised for this and paid £200  to recognise the trouble and upset caused. From what  Ive 
seen, I think this is a fair sum given the delay and service so Im not asking them to pay any 
more.
Ref: DRN23091154my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think the compensation offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So my decision  is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should 
pay Mr M £200 if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2309115