K820x#14complaint
Ms P has brought a complaint on behalf of P, a community organisation. She complains that 
Metro Bank  PLC made  errors  when  she tried to change the signatories for Ps account. Ms P 
also complains that Metro Bank disclosed sensitive data. 
background
P has an account with Metro Bank.  Ms P contacted Metro Bank in September  2018  about 
changing the signatories on the account.  
Ms P says a member of Metro Banks  staff called  her. During the call he disclosed the 
names and addresses  of the signatories on the account. He said he would send an email  to 
her with documents to change the signatories. The email didnt arrive. Ms P contacted Metro 
Bank again and was concerned that it had no record of the previous call. 
Ms P changed the account signatories in October 2018. Ms P is now the sole signatory. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said she 
couldnt be sure that Metro Bank  did go through security checks  when it called Ms P as there 
isnt a call recording.  But it had correctly contacted Ms P. As Ms P wanted to change  the 
account signatories, it wasnt unreasonable for Metro Bank to discuss  the signatories  with 
her. Metro  Bank accepted  it could have handled this matter  better  and offered £250 for the 
inconvenience. The investigator said this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms P didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Metro Bank  accepts it made errors.  It says it should  have sent an email to Ms P with the 
documents to change  the signatories when she first contacted it. It should also have given 
her contact details for her relationship manager.
Metro Bank  says when  the relationship manager called Ms P he should  have checked 
Ms Ps email address. Hed then have  known shed changed her email address. Because 
the email address in Metro Banks  records was out of date,  Ms P didnt receive the email 
sent to her by the relationship manager.  When Ms P contacted Metro Bank again it couldnt 
find a record of the call. As a result, Ms P was worried that the call wasnt  genuine. 
The call was genuine. I dont know  if the relationship manager completed the right security 
checks. But the call was with Ms P  an account signatory.
Ms P wanted to change the signatories on the account. In the circumstances,  I think it was 
reasonable for Metro Bank to discuss the signatories with her. Theres  nothing to suggest  
Metro Bank  gave data about Ms P or other signatories to anyone other than Ms P. 
Ref: DRN22450852I think having to contact Metro Bank more than once  about the same  matter caused 
inconvenience to Ms P. And Ms P was caused unnecessary worry that the call she received 
wasnt genuine. I think its right that Metro  Bank  has taken responsibility  for its errors. Metro 
Bank offered £250 compensation for its poor service. I think  this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by Metro 
Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P, on behalf of 
the community organisation she represents, to accept or reject  my decision before 
30 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2245085