K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that AXA Insurance  UK Plc didnt properly repair  his car when he claimed on 
his motor insurance for damage following an accident.
background
Mr L insures his car with AXA.  Unfortunately  he was in an accident and his car was 
damaged, so he claimed on his insurance.  
AXA arranged for the car to be taken in for repairs. But the repairs werent  completed  
successfully. The car had to be taken in again several times, and still the repairs werent 
completed properly.
Mr L complained. He said there were still outstanding issues  with his car  in particular the 
quality of the paintwork repair, but also with the parking sensors and mirrors  and damage to 
the door which he said the repairer  had caused.  
AXA offered  compensation of £500, and waived the policy excess of £250. Following 
discussion with our investigator, it agreed  that it would offer a cash  settlement  so Mr L could 
get the repairs completed himself, as hes lost confidence in AXAs repairer.  An independent  
assessor inspected the car to identify the works still outstanding.
Mr L then asked his garage to quote for the work identified  by the assessor.  It quoted just 
under £3,300. AXA didnt  think  that was reasonable.  It said the most it would pay was 
£1,460, which was the amount quoted by its repairer for the work identified.
Our investigator said AXA should  pay the amount quoted by Mr Ls garage.  She said it 
wasnt fair to rely on a quote provided  by the repairer when it had shown itself unable  to 
complete the repairs properly  on multiple  occasions. She said AXA should provide Mr L with 
a courtesy car while the repairs are carried out. And she said the compensation offered by 
AXA was fair.
Mr L thought the compensation  should  be higher, but he was prepared to accept  the 
investigators recommendation. But AXA didnt,  and so the complaint comes  to me for a 
decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by everyone that Mr L has had a very poor experience.  His car was damaged  
in an accident,  and over a period  of several months  AXA made multiple attempts  to repair  it 
but failed to do so properly.  This caused Mr L considerable inconvenience  and upset and its 
right AXA compensates him for that. Its waived the excess of £250. Its repairer fixed an 
issue with the handbrake  which wasnt accident related and carried  out an MOT  for Mr L  
these have a value of around  £250, which combined  with the excess  waiver  and the £500 
cash offer, means that AXA has offered Mr L a total of just over £1,000  as compensation for 
his inconvenience.  This is a substantial amount, and in all the circumstances I think  its a fair 
offer.
Ref: DRN20138562That leaves the amount  of the cash settlement for the repairs.  Theres  a considerable 
difference between  the two quotes. In part, thats because Mr Ls garage has a higher hourly 
labour charge. But it also thinks  more work  is needed to undo  the poor quality of 
workmanship, particularly on the paintjob, than AXAs repairer  which did the poor quality 
repairs in the first place   does. Given everything  thats gone before, I dont think its fair for 
AXA to use the same repairer to quote for putting  right what it got wrong on multiple 
occasions, and refuse  to pay any more than that.
Mr Ls quote also includes repairs that AXAs doesnt. Theres damage  to the door,  which the 
assessor says cant definitely be ascribed to the accident or the repairers,  and could have 
happened at any time.  Mr L hasnt  provided  any evidence to support his view that it was 
caused by the repairers  but then I wouldnt necessarily expect him to be able to. There 
would have been no reason for him to, for example, photograph the door before taking the 
car to the repairer in case it got damaged. On balance, and given Mr Ls experience  with the 
quality of its workmanship,  I accept  what he says.
Overall, therefore, I think Mr Ls quote  for repairs based on the findings of the assessor is a 
fair basis for calculating a cash settlement  in this particular case, and thats  what AXA should  
pay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr L £3,272.56  as cash settlement of his claim; 
Provide Mr L with a courtesy car for the duration  of the repairs  provided  he arranges 
the repairs within two months of the date of acceptance of this decision; and
Pay Mr L £500 compensation, if he hasnt  yet cashed the cheque it previously sent.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2013856