K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc incorrectly  settled a commercial vehicle 
insurance claim as being his fault and also about  how it dealt with his claim. 
background
Mr F was involved in an accident with a motorcyclist on 16 July 2018. He was turning left 
across a bus lane into a side road and hit a motorcyclist who was in the bus lane. AXA didnt 
think it would  be able to show  it was most likely  Mr F wasnt at fault for the accident  as it said 
he needed to make sure the lane was clear  before turning. Mr F didnt agree and thought the 
claim should be recorded as 50/50  which means both him and the motorcyclist would share 
equal responsibility for the accident.  He thought the motorcyclist had been going too fast and 
shouldnt have been in the bus lane. 
AXA said it wasnt able to prove how fast the motorcyclist  had been  going. And the bus lane 
was a valid lane so Mr F still had a responsibility  to make sure it was clear before turning. 
AXA said Mr Fs van was a total loss. Mr F said he wanted to keep the salvage but because 
AXA delayed in sorting this out hed had to cancel  a week of work.  He asked for AXA to pay 
his loss of earnings  for that week  and provided information to show hed had to cancel jobs.
AXA told Mr F to send  in information  to show  his loss of earnings.  But later told him he 
wasnt covered for this under  his policy. Mr F thought AXA could have told him this sooner. 
Our investigator thought AXA had been  fair and reasonable in coming to the decision to hold 
Mr F at fault for the accident  as it had taken account of all the relevant information,  evidence 
and legislation. She didnt think Mr Fs policy covered  him for loss of earnings and didnt 
think AXAs  actions had made it necessary for Mr F to cancel  his jobs. However she thought  
AXA could have  explained things more clearly  to him about  what would happen with the 
salvage and it should also have told him he wasnt covered for loss of earnings when he 
asked. She thought this had caused  Mr F distress and inconvenience  and asked  AXA to pay 
him £150 compensation. 
AXA accepted the investigators recommendation but Mr F didnt. He said he had to cancel 
the weeks work because  hes given the jobs on a Thursday for the following week  and has 
to give them to someone else if he cant do them. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the court.  
Instead we look to see that an insurer (in this case AXA) has made  a fair and reasonable 
decision thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  Like most policies we see 
Mr Fs policy gives AXA the right to take over any claim and defend or settle  it as it sees fit. 
While this might mean AXA makes a decision Mr F disagrees with the policy  allows it to. 
However Id expect it to do so fairly  and reasonably. 
I can see AXAs considered the circumstances of the accident and taken account of the 
Highway Code. It said it couldnt prove  that the motorcyclist was speeding. Given  that Mr F 
Ref: DRN20125092had a responsibility to make sure the road was clear  before turning AXA didnt think  it could 
prove Mr F wasnt  at fault if the accident  went  to court. Having considered this Im satisfied 
AXAs made a fair and reasonable  decision thats  in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
Mr Fs policy doesnt cover him for loss of earnings. So Id only ask AXA to pay these if I 
thought its actions had caused  him a loss he wouldnt have otherwise experienced. In 
writing-off Mr Fs van and paying him the total loss settlement the ownership  of the van 
would ordinarily pass to AXA. However  Mr F wanted  to keep the salvage  of his van so AXA 
needed to make arrangements for that.
Mr F said hed cancelled  jobs between  23 July and 27 July. He said he had to make a 
decision on the Thursday  of the week before about whether to take on the jobs,  which would 
have been 19 July. He said as he thought AXA was collecting  his van he didnt think  hed 
have it the following week.
AXA wrote to Mr F on the same  day as the accident to say it had arranged to remove  his van 
to storage and its engineers would inspect  it to see if it was a total loss. I can see from AXAs 
claim notes  that it knew Mr F wanted to keep the salvage following a call from its salvage 
agent on 17 July to say it would cancel  the collection of the van.
There seems  to have been  some  confusion on AXAs part about whether Mr F wanted  to 
retain the salvage but Im satisfied from its call note that AXA knew  this on 17 July. I can see 
that on 19 July AXA spoke to Mr F at 11.10am and told him he would need to speak to the 
salvage agent as his van was due to be collected on that day. I can see it then transferred 
him through  to the salvage agent.   
As Mr F wanted  to keep his van the claim took longer than it would have done if he hadnt. 
AXA put Mr F through to the salvage  agent to discuss keeping his van on 19 July, so I think 
its likely  he knew  this was an option.  While  I accept  there was some confusion  - and a delay  
of a couple of days  - it will take some time to process a claim and in any event Mr F still had 
the van in his possession and so could have used it if it was driveable. Im also not 
persuaded that AXAs actions meant  Mr F had no other option  to but cancel a week  of work.
I do think however that AXA could have  been  clearer with Mr F about what was going to 
happen with his van and he had to make a number of calls to confirm  that he wanted to keep 
it. I accept  it also caused  him distress  and inconvenience by saying he could claim for loss of 
earnings and then telling him he wasnt covered for it. So I think  AXA should compensate 
him for this. As I dont  think  AXA caused Mr Fs loss of earnings  Im satisfied £150 is a fair 
and reasonable amount for AXA to pay to him to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. I appreciate  Mr F was hoping  for more but this is in line with 
other types of award our service makes for cases of similar seriousness.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr F £150 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Fs accepted  my final decision. If it pays  
later than this it should add interest  at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to 
the date it makes payment.1
Ref: DRN20125093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2012509