K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about a payday loan Mr Lender provided to Mrs B in June 2011. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 01/06/2011 30/12/2011 1 £500 £657
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought  that this loan shouldnt  have been given 
to Mrs B. Mr Lender disagreed and said the adjudicator  hadnt  properly explained  his 
reasoning. As an agreement couldnt be reached  the case  was passed  me  an ombudsman 
 for a final decision.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN28149342Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Mrs B when she applied for her loan. 
This included verifying her employment and income.  It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal  anything of concern. This was Mrs Bs first loan with Mr Lender and I 
can see that the checks detailed above  were carried out. However, I think  if Mr Lender had 
properly considered Mrs Bs financial situation  and the lending  I think  it would have seen 
that Mrs B was not in a position  to take on this borrowing.  
I say this because  Mrs B was borrowing £500,  which was due to be repaid in one payment. 
This meant that Mrs B would be repaying £657  from her monthly  income of £1,500. The 
repayment represented a significant  proportion of Mrs Bs income and I think  Mr Lender 
ought to have realised this and the potential for Mrs B to struggle to make the repayment. 
Given Mrs Bs income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of Mrs B 
having to borrow  again to meet her commitment under this loan. Mr Lender was under a 
duty to ensure the lending  could  be sustainably repaid and in Mrs Bs case I dont think it 
was. And I think this wouldve been  clear to Mr Lender at the outset when it gathered  
information from Mrs B.
It is also important to note that Mrs B did struggle  to make the repayment on her loan, and it 
was only repaid in December  2011,  six months after she took it out.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Mrs Bs loan and Mr Lender should put things right.
how to put things right  what PDL Finance Limited  needs to do
Mrs B shouldnt have been  giver  her loan.
A.)Mr Lender  should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs B towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan (including payments made to a third party  if 
the debts were sold).
B.)Mr Lender  should  calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by 
Mrs B which  were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.)Mr Lender  should  pay Mrs B the total of A plus B.
D.)Mr Lender  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded on her 
credit file in relation  to the upheld  loans.
Ref: DRN28149343*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mrs B a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited should 
pay put things  right for Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision 
before 10 March 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814934