K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In my second provisional decision  of 21 December 2018 I set out why I didnt now think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  And I invited both parties to give me any further comments or 
evidence they wished to before I reached  a final decision. 
Miss S didnt respond  to my second  provisional decision. Barclays  responded saying  that it 
had no further  information to provide in relation  to the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
In my second provisional decision, I said that: 
Barclays has provided a copy of the credit card application form which  Miss S completed in 
1999. Its clear from this form that Miss S chose not to have PPI added to her card account  
at that time. Barclays says that the policy was added during a telephone  call with Miss S 
some eighteen months later. As this sale took place so long ago, its not that surprising that 
Barclays dont have  a record of this call. But as Miss S had been using her card for a 
considerable period of time before the PPI was added  to her account,  I think  she would  have 
known at the time that the policy was optional. And I think  Miss S would have been likely to 
have queried why she had started  being charged for PPI on her card statements if she 
hadnt consented to it being  added to her account.
So on the limited  information available to me about  this sale, I think its more likely  than not 
that Miss S agreed to take the PPI, knowing she could  choose not to.
Barclays says it would  have recommended  the PPI policy to Miss S. And Ive taken this to be 
the case because  this means  that it needed to ensure that it was suitable for her. I dont 
know how it did this. But from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I dont see any 
reason why the policy wouldnt have  been suitable. I say this because:
Miss S appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Miss S says she didnt  need the PPI cover because she had enough other means  to 
make her card repayments  if she couldnt work through  an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. These other means included an entitlement to sick pay from her 
employer, savings  and another  PPI policy that already covered her if she wasnt  able to 
work for these reasons.  
Ref: DRN27195322But as Ive already said,  I think  it was reasonable for Barclays to question whether 
Miss S was right in thinking  that she had enough  other means not to need the PPI policy 
it sold her. Given the time since this sale took place, I can understand why she might 
now find it difficult to provide firm evidence to support  all the other means she says she 
had at the time. But I think she should have been able to provide better information and 
evidence than she has been able to do so far. In particular, I would have expected 
Miss S to have been able to give the name of the provider of the PPI policy she says she 
had at the time and how she was paying  the premiums for this policy. And I think she 
should have been able to request details  of her savings from the provider she used for 
these at the time.
Ive also taken account of the fact that the PPI policy Barclays  sold Miss S gave her 
specific cover for her card repayments. And it would have paid out in addition  to any 
other means  she might have had for paying  these at the time.  So on balance, I dont 
think it would  be fair for me to conclude  on the information and evidence currently  
available to me that Miss S wouldnt  have found this policy useful and been prepared to 
pay for it.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss S and as it was paid for by a 
monthly premium, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met her needs.
Barclays also needed to give Miss S enough  information about the PPI for her to decide if 
she wanted it. I think its likely that Barclays could have given her better  information  than it 
did. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for her, I dont 
think better information would have changed her mind about taking it. I think  she would have 
still thought the policy  gave her useful cover at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think I can currently say that Miss S has lost out by anything that Barclays  may 
have done wrong  when  it sold her this PPI policy.
As explained above, neither Barclays nor Miss S gave me any additional comments  or 
information in response to my second  provisional  decision. In the absence of anything new 
for me to consider,  Ive no reason  to change my findings as set out above and in my second  
provisional decision. So Im not upholding this complaint against Barclays.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2719532