K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that they were mis-sold a unit linked reviewable whole of life policy  
set up on a second death basis by Tilney Financial Planning Limited (the business). 
Mr and Mrs K feel the policy is of little use to them, given the way its been  set up. 
background
The business rejected the complaint. In short, it said the policy  was set up as instructed, and 
it provided Mr and Mrs K with documentation  that made clear the nature and operation  of the 
policy. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
Mr and Mrs K say they had significant  business debts, and they were  advised that if 
Mr K died without paying those  back,  it could have serious consequences for Mrs K. 
Its on this basis they say they obtained cover so that in the event  of Mr Ks death, 
Mrs K could  use the money  to pay for a business  manager  and pay off the debts. 
Due to the passage of time, documentation isnt now available, so despite what  Mr 
and Mrs K say, it isnt possible to know what their needs were  at the time and how 
the recommendation met those needs. 
In 2005, when further advice was sought it was recorded that Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
planning had been dealt with by way of a whole of life second  death policy.  But this 
wasnt necessarily correct.  
A copy of the application form showed that the joint life second death  option was 
selected, and Mr and Mrs K signed  the form to confirm that the correct information 
was provided and recorded.   
That aside, the Illustration and policy schedule provided also recorded this was a 
joint life second  death policy. It was Mr and Mrs Ks responsibility  to ensure they got 
what theyd wanted. 
She doesnt disbelieve what Mr and Mrs K said, its just that she doesnt  have  
evidence upon which she could  uphold this complaint.   
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators conclusion. In short, they maintain the 
business mis-sold the policy  and that it didnt  meet  their need. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs K say Im unable  to 
safely say that the business has done  anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN26215832But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Ks strength of feeling  about this matter.  
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs K say they wanted, and what they thought they had, but in the 
circumstances I cant blame the business for them not having what they thought they had. If 
they misunderstood what they had, I cant say that that was down to business.
I note that the joint life second death plan was selected on the application  form and Mr and 
Mrs K signed the relevant document confirming  that the form was correct. So, on the face of 
it, it seems  the business only sold the product they were asked for. Its possible  although  
Im not saying for definite  it was the case  that Mr and Mrs K failed to communicate what 
they exactly wanted. 
In other  words, on the face of the available evidence Mr and Mrs K applied for, and received, 
the policy that was designed to pay out on the death  of the second  life assured. 
Based on what they now say, I acknowledge the policy wouldnt achieve what they say they 
wanted. If just one of them died the policy wouldnt pay out. And whilst Mr K (as the business  
owner) might  financially survive the loss of Mrs K, it was unlikely that Mrs K would be able to 
maintain the business and survive without  Mr K and a pay out. 
But to uphold this complaint Id have to conclude that Mr and Mrs K wanted a first death  
policy, and thats  what they asked for, but were mistakenly sold a second death  policy  by the 
business  Im unable  to do that on the evidence available.  
Im satisfied that the policy  documentation provided  made reasonably clear this was a joint 
second life policy.  If Mr and Mrs K didnt read the documentation, I cant  blame  the business 
for this. It was their responsibility to seek clarification  regarding  anything they were unsure 
of, or if the policy wasnt what they wanted.  
Its possible they misunderstood what they were  getting, so wouldnt have been able to raise  
an issue about something that they werent  aware  of, but thats not something I can hold the 
business responsible for. 
Im also not saying that I disbelieve Mr and Mrs K. I just cant  uphold  this complaint based on 
the available  evidence on the basis that they made the business  aware  of their requirements 
at the point of sale and it made a mistake  by selling them the wrong  product. The information 
recorded in 2005 unfortunately doesnt take matters  further. 
Ref: DRN26215833I appreciate Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded the business needs  to do anything  else.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr and 
Mrs K what  they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont up hold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2621583