K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2009.  At the same  time he also took a Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan, (TMPP), policy. The TMPP included critical illness and life 
cover, in addition to the MPPI. This last element provided for monthly  payments to be made 
if Mr C was unable to work because of accident, sickness  or involuntary unemployment. This 
decision only deals with the MPPI  aspect of the policy.
Initially the monthly premiums for the MPPI  were  about £27. And following a successful 
claim the policy would have paid out about £451 a month. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr C disagreed 
with this view the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  our general  approach  to complaints about the sale of payment protection  
insurance on our website. Ive taken  this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Because of the time that has passed since  the sale, Halifax no longer has a copy  of all the
paperwork signed by Mr C. Nor does it have a record of what was said at the meeting.
So Ive had to base my decision on the information  which I do have and on what  we know
generally about the way Halifax sold TMPP policies.
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr C but Ive decided not to uphold  his 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mr C says that Halifax didnt ask him about having the MPPI. But I think that he knew that he 
had a choice whether  to take it or not and that he decided to take it. I say this because Ive 
seen:
Mr Cs mortgage offer. This says that he doesnt  have to take any insurance with Halifax 
at all. And goes  on to say that the only insurance he has to have is buildings  insurance;  
Halifaxs letter to Mr C confirming that he had taken the TMPP. The letter refers to the 
insurance as being  optional;
The above  letter also includes a record of the answers Mr C gave at the time of his 
application for the MPPI. Broadly  these  were to check that he was eligible  for the policy 
and not, at that stage, likely to be affected by its main  restrictions  and limitations  such  
as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition.  Im satisfied that this 
shows that there was a conversation about  the insurance. Because  of the time that has 
passed, I can understand why Mr C no longer  remembers this.
Ref: DRN23892072A note in Halifaxs records saying that [Mr C] agrees with need for TMPP.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr C. This means that it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that the MPPI was suitable  for him. Knowing what  I do about the terms and 
conditions of the insurance and Mr Cs circumstances, I find that it wasnt  unsuitable 
because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy;
Mr C wasnt  caught by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions  such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
The MPPI was competitively priced by reference  to other similar  policies available in the 
market at the time. And I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the premiums were  
unaffordable. In any event, if Mr C had later thought  that he couldnt afford the MPPI,  he 
could have cancelled  it at any time without  additional cost;
Mr C has told us that he was entitled to some  sick pay from his employer but had no 
savings or other insurance to help him make his mortgage repayments  had he been off 
work. But, following  a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months. This would have  been in addition  to any sick pay, leaving that available  to help 
him meet his other expenses while  he was off work. So I find that the MPPI could have 
been of use to Mr C;
Its possible that Halifax failed to give Mr C all the information about the MPPI that it ought to 
have so that he could make  and informed decision whether to take it or not. But as Ive 
concluded that it could have been  of use to him I dont think  that better information would 
have changed  his mind and stopped him buying  it. Ive reach  this conclusion particularly 
taking into account  the possible serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr C not 
been able to make his mortgage repayments. This means I dont think  that Mr C has lost out 
because of anything  Halifax  may have done wrong or omitted to do during the sale.  
As Ive said above,  Ive considered everything  Mr C has told us. This includes that members  
of his family  would have  helped him had he been unable to work. We explain on our website 
why we dont usually take this into account.  And I havent seen anything  in this complaint to 
make me think that I should take a different approach here.  Mr C also said that he was 
young and did what was recommended. I dont find that this is sufficient for me to conclude  
that Halifax unfairly exerted influence on Mr C or took advantage of him. So these and 
Mr Cs other  comments  dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389207