K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the decision taken by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following a claim he 
made on his car insurance policy after his car was damaged.
background
Mr C has explained he parked his car overnight  on a public street. He returned to it the 
following morning to find that the front bumper  had been severely damaged.  Mr C contacted  
UKI about making  a claim for the incident.  UKI instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Cs car. 
The engineers report found that The vehicle has obviously been driven into something 
resembling a fence  post. The report also said that the pedestrian  safety feature had been 
activated, and this couldnt have  happened whilst the engine was turned off. 
Because this information was different to what Mr C had told UKI about the circumstances  of 
his claim,  UKI sought further  guidance  from two car dealerships specialising  in the make  of 
Mr Cs car. UKI also contacted Thatcham (a research centre for cars) for further information 
about when the pedestrian safety feature  would  usually be activated.
These enquiries confirmed that the pedestrian safety feature wouldnt usually be activated if 
the engine was turned off. Thatcham also explained that the car wouldve been travelling at 
a speed of 25-55 kmph  for the pedestrian safety  feature to have been activated. Because of 
this, UKI told Mr C that it wouldnt be paying his claim. 
Mr C was unhappy with this decision. He said hed researched what  UKI had relied  on, and 
had found that the airbags  shouldve also been set off, and this hadnt happened. Mr C also 
said that the pedestrian safety  feature couldve been  activated whilst the car was driven from 
the place of the incident to his home.
UKI instructed a third party forensic engineer  to inspect Mr Cs car, and provide a full report  
about the likely cause of the damage. The report found that the damage  was reflective of:
1.having resulted  from a contact centred around a vertical  object ;
2.not consistent with having resulted from contact withanother motor vehicle and
3.The pedestrian  safety feature would not deploy had the vehicle been  parked, 
unattended, and with its ignition off. 
UKI reviewed these findings and told Mr C that its decision not to pay his claim remained. Mr 
C wasnt happy with this response, and referred  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator found that UKI had acted fairly and reasonably in reviewing Mr Cs claim, 
and didnt recommend UKI do anything more. Mr C disagreed with the investigators view 
saying that he shouldnt have to prove his claim on a 100% basis,  as thats  not what 
insurance premiums are paid for. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
Ref: DRN27348182is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr C. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings,  and I wont be recommending UKI do anything more.  I 
can understand this is likely to come  as a disappointment to Mr C but I hope  my findings  go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.    
Ive seen that when Mr C reported the incident to UKI, it instructed an independent engineer  
to inspect Mr Cs vehicle,  and provide  a professional opinion on the impact,  and likely cause 
of the damage. The engineer found that the damage  was likely to have  been  caused whilst 
the engine was turned on. This was because the pedestrian safety  feature had been  
activated. Because this report didnt match what Mr C had told UKI, UKI contacted several  
car dealerships specialising in the model of Mr Cs car. 
I think these actions were fair. UKI couldnt conclusively say what  had happened. Mr C had 
explained that his car had been parked  overnight, so before making a decision on whether to 
pay out on the claim, UKI sought further professional  opinion  on what wouldve likely 
triggered the pedestrian safety  feature. 
Both car dealerships agreed  with the engineers report that the car engine wouldve had to 
have been turned on for the pedestrian  safety feature to have been  activated. UKI also 
contacted Thatcham, who further confirmed  this. Thatcham also said that the car would  likely  
have been travelling at a speed of 25-55 kmph. 
I think the additional steps taken  by UKI to clarify, and confirm the engineers  report, were 
fair. As four separate  sources had provided the same opinion  about how and when the 
pedestrian safety  feature wouldve been  activated, I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on 
this when reaching a decision about Mr Cs claim. 
When Mr C didnt accept UKIs decision on his claim, UKI paid for an independent third party 
forensic engineer  to further inspect Mr Cs car. The findings of this report supported the 
evidence UKI had previously relied on in rejecting Mr Cs claim. So I think its fair that UKI 
told Mr C that its decision  to reject  his claim hadnt changed. 
In response to the investigators findings, Mr C said that he shouldnt have to categorically 
prove his claim in order for it to be paid out. I can appreciate its upsetting  to be told that an 
insurance claim wont be paid out. When we investigate a complaint about an insurers 
decision on a claim, our role is to consider whether  the insurer handled  the claim in a fair 
and reasonable manner.  
In this case, I think UKI did all it could  to investigate Mr Cs claim fairly. During its 
investigation, five separate  opinions indicated that for the impact to have happened, its likely 
that the car engine was turned on. This evidence is contrary to the circumstances Mr C 
provided for his claim. Its also important for me to consider that an engineers duty is to the 
Court. The engineer is independent, and unbiased. So I cant say UKI did anything  wrong  by 
relying on this evidence as part of its decision making process. 
I think UKI fairly considered the evidence provided by Mr C, including  his verbal  testimony 
about what had happened, alongside the professional opinion  of the engineers  instructed.  
So I wont  be asking it to do anything  more in settlement of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN27348183my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2734818