K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about two commercial fixed interest  rate loans that Lloyds Bank  PLC (the 
bank) made  to him in 2011 and 2013.
Mr H says the bank didnt adequately inform him about  the features of the loans and in 
particular about  the break  costs that he might have to pay if he repaid the loans while  the 
interest rate was fixed.
He says that if hed been  adequately  informed  before entering into the loans, he would 
instead have retained financial flexibility and either not have fixed the interest rate or at most 
have fixed the rate for only three years. 
background
Mr Hs business was investing and dealing in property. He was a longstanding  customer  of 
the bank. In 2011 the bank lent him a little over £150,000 over 25 years,  with the interest 
rate being  fixed  for the first ten years  of the loan.
In 2013 the bank lent Mr H a little under £120,000  over 25 years, with the interest rate being 
fixed for the first 12 years and six months  of the loan.
In 2015 Mr H told the bank hed been  approached by another  lender  offering him better 
terms. At that time the bank quoted  him break costs of around £11,000 for the 2011 loan and 
around £16,000 for the 2013 loan. Mr H didnt proceed with the offer from the other lender, 
and the two loans remained in place   so no break costs  were paid.
In 2017 Mr H complained  about the loans, via a representative. The bank didnt uphold the 
complaint about  the 2011 loan. But it accepted the information it gave about  the break costs 
under the 2013 loan could have been better. It offered to treat that loan as if, at the time 
Mr H raised his complaint,  the fixed interest  rate had come  to an end on payment of break 
costs of 6% of the loan capital owing. After  that, Mr H would  be treated as if hed paid a 
(lower) variable  rate of interest. 
Mr H didnt accept the banks offer.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint  in respect of either loan. Although  he (the 
adjudicator) didnt think the bank had done  enough,  in the case of either loan, to make  Mr H 
aware how large the break costs might be, he concluded Mr H would still have gone ahead 
with both loans,  even if he (Mr H) had known how large the break  costs  might be.
Following the adjudicators conclusions, Mr H asked  the bank to provide up-to-date figures 
for its offer. The bank  supplied these. Mr H again  didnt accept the offer.  He asked for a 
review of his complaint  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I too have 
concluded the complaint doesnt succeed, and for reasons broadly similar to those  of the 
adjudicator. 
Ref: DRN26607102Mr H didnt put forward any new evidence  or arguments following the adjudicators 
conclusions, nor did he explain why he disagreed  with them.  My review therefore  had to be 
based on the same evidence  and arguments  that were available  to the adjudicator.
Having reviewed the documents, I agree the papers  for the 2013 loan hadnt adequately 
explained the potential size of the break costs. In the case  of the 2011 loan, the explanatory 
material had contained  some sizeable figures  for break costs  in the illustrations.
In any event, like the adjudicator  Ive concluded  Mr H would still have gone ahead  with both 
loans, even if hed known how large the break costs might be. An important feature of this 
case is that Mr H simultaneously  had other, substantial loans from the bank which he was 
repaying at a variable  rate of interest.  So he was able to reduce his borrowings from the 
bank without paying any break  costs  if he wished  and indeed  he made use of this 
opportunity when he repaid £60,000 in 2015.  
Theres no evidence or indication in the papers  Ive seen  from 2011  and 2013 that Mr H was 
more likely than not to wish to repay either  loan before  the fixed  rate period came  to an end. 
On the contrary,  there are indications that Mr H didnt  intend to sell his properties until 15 
years had passed. 
Its true that Mr H considered whether to repay the loans in 2015 when he was offered better  
terms by another  lender, but this hadnt  been  envisaged in 2011 or 2013 when the loans 
were taken out. Nor did the break costs quoted at that time (in 2015) make it impossible for 
Mr H to repay the loans  if hed wished to do so. 
Regarding the loan of 2013, the banks papers indicate it wouldnt have lent over a whole 25 
year term at a variable rate  the bank offered Mr H a 25 year term in order  to make the loan 
more affordable. So this is a further factor that supports  my finding Mr H would have taken 
out the fixed rate loan in 2013 in any case.  
I also agree  the bank  had no obligation  to tell Mr H how it rewarded its staff or priced its loan 
products. Mr H could make up his mind  about  the loans on the basis  of the fixed  interest 
rates and thereafter the margins above base rate that were  offered to him.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2660710