K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out MPPI at around the same  time as taking out a mortgage with Halifax. 
Both the mortgage  and the policy started  in 1992. The insurance only covered  Mr F, even 
though the mortgage  was held jointly by him and Mrs F. The monthly premiums were about 
£15, and following  a successful claim the policy would have paid out about £300 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs F 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Because of the time that has passed, neither  Mr and Mrs F nor Halifax  have been able to 
send us copies  of the paperwork  from the time of the sale. Nor can either  of them  remember  
whether the MPPI was sold by filling  in a leaflet, by post, over the phone or in a meeting. For 
the same  reason, we dont have a copy of the terms and conditions  of the actual policy  that 
was in use at the time. So Ive made my decision on the basis of what we know  generally 
about MPPI  policies and on the information that I do have. This includes looking at the terms 
and conditions of the oldest MPPI policy that Halifax has been able to show  us. This was in 
use some  two years after the sale. I have  no reason  to conclude  that the policy sold to 
Mr and Mrs F would  have  differed substantially  from this. And Ive therefore based my 
decision on the likelihood that their MPPI was in a substantially  similar form.
I know that it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, but Ive decided not to uphold  
their complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs F say that they felt pressured  into taking out the MPPI and werent told that it 
was optional. They say this is because Halifax told them that they wouldnt get their 
mortgage unless  they took out the insurance.  And that the MPPI  and mortgage were a 
package. Understandably, because the sale was over 25 years  ago, Mr and Mrs F havent  
given us any detail  of what Halifax actually said. And, in the absence  of more persuasive  
evidence I dont find that I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax  didnt make  it clear to 
Mr and Mrs F that the MPPI was optional or that that they didnt choose to take it.
Ref: DRN22884852Because I have so little detail of how Halifax sold the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F, to be fair to 
them I have assumed that Halifax  recommended them to take it. This means that it ought to 
have taken reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know  what 
steps Halifax took but I find that the MPPI  was suitable.  I say this because, knowing what  I 
do about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time and the terms and conditions  of the 
policy that Ive referred to above:
Mr F was likely to have been  eligible for the policy;
Mr F was unlikely  to have been caught  by any of the MPPIs  main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition or 
who was self-employed.  Im aware that Mr F suffered from depression. But he and Mrs F 
told us that this was some  months  after the insurance commenced. So this means that it 
was not a pre-existing medical  condition. So its unlikely that Mr F would have been 
prevented for making a claim for this condition had he had to take time off work because 
of it;
Mr F was entitled to sick pay from his employer.  But he and Mrs F had no other 
insurance or savings  to help them make their mortgage repayments had Mr F been 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would  have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay, leaving that available  to help Mr and Mrs F meet 
their other expenses while Mr F wasnt working.  These payments would likely to have 
been made for up to 12 month. So I think that the MPPI could have been of use to 
Mr and Mrs F;
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar polices that were  
available in the market at the time and it offered a reasonable  benefit;
Mrs F wasnt working, so I find it reasonable that the policy  only covered Mr F.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs F couldnt afford the premiums. In any 
event, as it was paid for monthly,  they could have cancelled the policy at any time had 
they later felt that it was unaffordable or they no longer  required it.
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs F all the information about the MPPI that it 
ought to have so that they could  make a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. For 
instance, Halifax may not have pointed out that they had to continue  paying the premiums 
during a claim. But as Ive concluded  that it could have been of use to them  I dont think that 
better information would  have  changed  their minds  and stopped them  buying  it. I reach  this 
conclusion particularly taking into account the possible  serious  consequences  of failing to 
keep up their mortgage repayments  which were  secured on their home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr and Mrs F have lost out because of anything Halifax  may 
have done wrong,  or omitted  to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing  I require it to put right.
As Ive said above,  Ive considered everything  that Mr and Mrs F have told us. Including that 
they had another MPPI which was paid and upheld. In making my decisions I have to look 
the individual facts and surrounding circumstances of the particular complaint being 
considered. So the fact that another claim may have been  settled in Mr and Mrs Fs favour 
has no bearing on my decision here.  So this comment of Mr and Mrs Fs doesnt change  it.
Ref: DRN22884853my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2288485