K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc has treated her unfairly  by declining her request to 
restructure her mortgage account. Lloyds have told her it wouldnt restructure the account 
because they dont consider it to be affordable for her and she feels this is unreasonable.  
This account is held in joint names. Mrs W has brought the complaint with Mr Ws consent. 
Mr and Mrs W are separated and at the time of making the complaint, were going through 
mediation but the house and mortgage remains in joint names.  
background
Mr and Mrs W re-mortgaged their property to Cheltenham and Gloucester, which is part of 
Lloyds Banking  Group, in 2006. This was for £265,000 on a repayment basis over 20 years.  
Unfortunately, Mr W lost his job in 2009,  which  resulted in difficulties making  payments and 
arrears started to build  on the account. Lloyds  agreed to convert the mortgage to interest 
only as a short-term  concession to help Mr and Mrs W make payments. This lowered  the 
amount they had to pay each month and Lloyds agreed to this for a period  of time until 2014. 
During this time, payments were  missed or not made in full. In 2013, as the arrears on the 
mortgage were high, Lloyds applied to possess the property. Mrs W has said that she 
received her first eviction notice in 2013  and that she didnt realise  that Lloyds had already 
gone to court to obtain a possession order, because Mr W hadnt told her. 
In 2014 Mrs W made a complaint to Lloyds as she didnt feel supported  by the bank and her 
request to make reduced payments was declined. She also asked for Mr W to be removed 
from the mortgage but Halifax  said it would  need her to go through  a transfer of equity 
process. She has made  other  complaints about  the lack of support she received from Lloyds, 
which will not be considered here as they have already been answered. 
In 2016, Mrs W obtained  an occupancy order for her to remain in the property.  She made 
some payments to the mortgage, but these were  for less than the contractual  payment and 
were not made every month. Lloyds  kept in regular  contact  with Mrs W to discuss the 
mortgage and plans to repay. In 2018,  Mrs W applied to extend the term of the mortgage. 
This was declined by Lloyds  as it says that following  an income and expenditure review, it 
was found to be unaffordable even  with the lower  payments that would result from a longer 
term. 
Mrs W sought help from her local MP because of the difficult circumstances she was 
experiencing and Lloyds  agreed to postpone a scheduled eviction for three months, for 
further mediation between Mr and Mrs W. Lloyds asked for Mrs W to get in touch with them 
to agree a way forwards. In January 2019,  as further  payments  hadnt been made, Lloyds 
started proceedings to repossess the property.  
Mrs W made an application  to suspend the warrant of possession, but this was dismissed  in 
April 2019 and she brought  her complaint to this service. She feels that Lloyds havent done 
enough to help her considering her circumstances.  
Lloyds replied to her complaint in its final response  letter of 15 April 2019. In this it said that it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong  and that it had taken steps to seek possession of the 
Ref: DRN25541322property as payments  were not being  made.  It also said that the term extension request was 
declined because of affordability reasons. 
The complaint was considered by our investigator  who didnt think it should  be upheld.  
Mrs W disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the difficult  circumstances surrounding  this complaint and have kept this in mind  
during my review of whether I think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly. 
did Lloyds unfairly  decline Mrs Ws request for a term extension?
In September  2018, Mrs W contacted Lloyds asking  to extend the term of the mortgage to 
reduce the monthly payments required. She requested this up to the age of 67, although she 
said she planned to work until 70 and said she was able to afford payments of just under  
£1,300 per month. At the time of applying, the remaining term of the mortgage  was seven 
years and six months and she was requesting  this to be extended  for a total of between 16 
to 18 years.  Different  figures for monthly  payments  over these terms with a contribution  to 
the arrears were discussed.
The adviser discussed her income  and expenditure and they explored options  to bring the 
payments down. Mrs W mentioned income  that she may receive in the future, but this cant  
be relied upon in an application. Lloyds said they found that there could be scope to extend 
the term, but if the government assistance that Mrs W was receiving was removed, as it 
found it would be in five years time,  it would make  the monthly payments unaffordable. So 
the extension  request  was declined on this basis. 
There are provisions within  the relevant rules which state that, whilst  Lloyds  assessed  
whether it would be affordable, it could set concerns aside if it were  otherwise in Mrs Ws 
best interests to agree  to the term extension, or if it was an appropriate  form of forbearance. 
But having  considered the information  provided,  I still dont think  Lloyds acted unfairly in 
declining the request.  I say this because, based on the information provided,  the payments 
were not sustainable  in the long term so this would not have been in her best interests. And 
for the same reasons,  a term extension isnt the right form of forbearance if the monthly 
payments would still be unaffordable even  over an extended term.
Im also mindful that at the time of applying, there were significant arrears on the account 
and only three payments  were made in 2018, all of which fell short of the amount due that 
month. The mortgage account has been  in arrears since 2008 with very limited payments 
made in some years. 
Lloyds has said that it could reconsider the request if the arrears were  brought up to date or 
if payments started  to be made  to the account  regularly  but unfortunately, there hasnt been 
evidence of this. 
I also think that Lloyds  took reasonable steps to speak to both parties  about  the request to 
extend the term and gain an understanding of how affordable this would be. At the time, no 
agreement had been reached in mediation  about  the property. Lloyds assessed the 
Ref: DRN25541323affordability based on the information provided by Mrs W, so I dont think they acted unfairly 
in declining the request. 
I think Lloyds did give fair and reasonable consideration to the term extension request and I 
dont think, considering everything,  they were unfair to decline it due to the circumstances. 
delays in considering the term extension
Mrs W has said that Lloyds caused delays in the process. Ive considered the contact  notes 
and can see that several  conversations happened  between Mrs W and Lloyds in respect of 
making changes  to the account over the last few years. Unfortunately, it appears  that in 
these historic attempts,  the financial position didnt support a change.  
In the 2018 review which Mrs W complains about,  Lloyds also needed to keep Mr W updated 
on the request  as he is the joint account  holder,  which  took additional time. 
Mrs W asked  for her local Member of Parliament (MP) to get involved after Lloyds indicated  
that her request  for a term extension would be declined on affordability  grounds.  Lloyds 
wrote to the MP directly  in April 2018.  I can understand Ms Ws concerns  that she was not 
given this letter, but I dont think that Lloyds has made an error here as it responded directly 
to the complaint that was made by the MP. 
I do see that time has been  taken in considering the request,  but I dont think that there has 
been an unreasonable delay as Mrs W says.  It appears that Lloyds was trying  to find a way 
forwards and considering the income  and expenditure  information  provided. It also had to 
gain consent from both parties  as this is a joint account. 
repossession proceedings
Mrs W has also complained that Lloyds took action to repossess  the property. Repossession 
is a last resort that lenders take when a mortgage account is in arrears and payments have 
not been consistently made, as is the case here,  and theres no way of getting things back 
on track. Lloyds agreed to hold the account for three  months in May 2018 following  a 
complaint from Mrs Ws MP and on the understanding that mediation was happening  
between Mr and Mrs W and to allow time for the property to be settled in this. Unfortunately,  
this didnt happen so Lloyds started to take action again. 
The situation  was reviewed again  and Lloyds held a conference call with both Mr and Mrs W 
to gain an understanding of the circumstances.  The account continued to be held until the 
end of January  2019 and Lloyds wrote  to the MP to make it clear  that it would  apply to the 
court for an eviction  date if the situation didnt change.
Lloyds sent a field agent to assess the situation  in March 2019,  but this was an unsuccessful 
visit. Following  this, Lloyds instructed its solicitors to start proceedings. Mrs W applied  to 
have this suspended, but this was rejected. Since the complaint has been with this service, 
proceedings have been  placed on hold. 
Considering everything, I dont think that Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly. I think 
theyve kept in appropriate contact  and have shown patience and forbearance  to both parties  
considering the difficult circumstances. Lloyds  applied holds to the account to allow  Mr and 
Mrs W further time to reach an agreement on the property and make  payments.  As this 
Ref: DRN25541324didnt happen,  I dont think it acted unreasonably in starting proceedings especially 
considering the large arrears on the account and lack of payments made.  
conclusions and next steps
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
At the start of the mortgage, it was agreed that Mr and Mrs W would repay the amount 
borrowed. I understand that there have been difficulties over this time and payments  have  
not been made but this situation cant go on indefinitely and Im conscious that there  is a 
large arrears balance on the account. 
I think all parties  should  try to communicate to reach an agreement to make  payments to the 
account or bring the mortgage to an end. Lloyds did start legal proceedings to recover  the 
debt outstanding before the complaint was referred to this service and has agreed  to hold 
this whilst this service  considers the complaint. 
Due to the current  Covid-19 pandemic, the government has required all legal proceedings to 
be put on hold until the end of October 2020. This should allow  time for these conversations  
to happen and I would expect Lloyds  to show reasonable forbearance  during this time whilst 
arrangements are made.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2554132