K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc rejected his Section 75 claim.
background
In July 2018 Mr H made a payment  to an online money transfer service in the sum of 
£2511.65 using his Halifax card. The payment was for the rental of a holiday villa.
When Mr H and his wife arrived  at the villa he discovered that the owner  hadnt  authorised  
the rental.
Mr H contacted Halifax from abroad and reported the fraud. Mrs H says she asked Halifax if 
they were covered under Section 75 and was advised that they were. She says they booked 
alternative accommodation in reliance on this advice rather than fly home.
In September  2018 Mr H raised a chargeback dispute and the payment was temporarily  
refunded to the account. The merchant challenged the chargeback successfully and the 
payment was re-debited  in November 2018.
Halifax looked at whether  Mr H might  have a claim under Section  75. It concluded that there 
hadnt been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the merchant because the 
merchant had sent the payment to the intended recipient, thereby fulfilling its contractual 
obligation.
Mr H wasnt happy with Halifaxs  response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  hadnt  been a breach of contract  
because Halifax had paid the merchant and the merchant had transferred the payment to the 
supplier.
Mr H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act requires a direct relationship  between  the customer 
(Mr H), the card issuer  (Halifax) and the offending merchant (the supplier of the villa). If that 
relationship is broken  by a third party payment handler, the protection  offered by Section 75 
is lost.
In this case, Mr H didnt pay the supplier of the villa directly. He paid an online  money  
transfer service using his Halifax card. The money  transfer service  sent the payment to the 
intended recipient.   So it delivered  the service  that Mr H contracted  with it to do.
Because the money transfer  service acted as a middleman in the transaction, the direct 
relationship between Mr H, Halifax and the villa supplier was broken and Section 75 cant  
apply.
Ref: DRN22118202Had the online money transfer service breached its contract with Mr H by not paying  the 
money to the intended recipient, then Mr H could have made a section 75 claim against  
them. But that isnt what happened here.
Taking everything into account,  theres  no evidence that theres been a breach of contract. 
Mr H instructed the money transfer service  to send a payment to a designated person and 
the money transfer service fulfilled its obligations. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that Halifax has acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
rejecting the Section 75 claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2211820