K820x#14complaint
Miss W complained that she was mis-sold  a credit card payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy by Barclays Bank  UK plc, trading  as Barclaycard (Barclays).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Miss Ws 
complaint. I invited Barclays and Miss W to send in any further comments or evidence  they 
wanted me to consider by 1 May 2019, before I reached a final decision.  Miss W didnt send 
in a response, and Barclays said it had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Barclays nor Miss W provided  
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, Ive no reason to change the conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision. So I dont  uphold Miss Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22104062COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss W complained that she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Barclays Bank UK plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays).
background
Miss W bought the policy in April 2003 when she took out a credit  card. Miss W and Barclays agreed 
that the sale took place in a meeting. Barclays said it advised  Miss W to take the PPI. Miss W said 
there was no mention of PPI and she didnt need it. She also said she had health problems at the time 
of the sale.
The policy cost 79p for each £100 Miss W owed on her credit card. If shed successfully claimed  on 
the policy,  each month it wouldve paid out 10% of what she owed on the card when she stopped 
working. This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ws complaint because of her health problems   she thought these 
wouldve limited her ability to claim  on the policy. And she thought Miss W wouldnt have taken  the 
PPI if shed understood this. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Im not proposing to uphold  Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays sent us a copy of Miss Ws credit card application. This shows a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted  PPI  and there was a separate box that she couldve marked to say that she didnt want  
it. I think its likely that Miss W wouldve looked over the form before she signed it, so overall I think its 
more likely  than not that Miss W was aware  of the PPI and had a choice about whether to take  it  
and decided  to do so. I think she probably just doesnt remember doing  so as it was so long ago.
Barclays said it advised  Miss W to take out the PPI, so it shouldve made sure it was suitable for her. 
On balance I think it was.
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained  the PPI, in particular the 
things not covered  and one of these exclusions covered pre-existing  medical conditions. Miss W 
said she had health problems at the time of the sale  a condition shed had since childhood. But she 
also said that she hadnt  had to take any time off work  because of it  so it seems to have been 
controlled. Miss W mentioned medication, but its not clear how regularly this was used. We asked 
Miss W for more information  about how the condition  affected her, but she didnt send anything in. 
Ill look at this point again if Miss W wishes to send in further evidence.  But at this stage I dont think 
its likely  that she would have thought shed need  to make a claim because of it. And Miss W could 
potentially have claimed successfully  if shed  lost her job, or if shed been off sick with any other 
condition. So on balance Im not satisfied that Miss Ws condition made the policy  unsuitable for her, 
or that shed have made a different decision about taking it if shed had better information  about the 
exclusions. Ive also kept in mind that Miss W didnt  appear to have been affected by any of the other 
main things the policy didnt cover.
Otherwise, Miss W told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay 
from her employer  of six months full pay and then six months  half pay. On balance I think Miss W 
could have found it difficult to make the payments  on her card once her sick pay reduced or if shed 
Ref: DRN22104063lost her job. Miss W said she couldve relied  on his friends and family  to help out. But their 
circumstances couldve changed, so I dont think their help couldve been guaranteed. So I think  the 
PPI couldve provided a useful benefit.
Ive also considered the information that Barclays mightve given Miss W. As Ive said, I cant know 
how the adviser  explained  the policy,  or when  Miss W mightve been given a policy  summary or full 
policy document. So its possible  the information about the cost and benefits  may not have been as 
clear as it shouldve been. 
However, although  I cant  say that Barclays fully explained  the policy, Im not satisfied that Miss W 
would have acted differently   and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It could  have provided  useful 
protection for her if she was unable to work. This means I dont currently think  the PPI was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Miss Ws complaint. 
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210406