K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that when  they made an enquiry about  some damage in their home,  
Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes)  logged  it as a claim.  They  think thats  unfair as it 
might impact  on the information they have to disclose to other insurers  and on future 
premiums.
background
Mrs W called  Great Lakes to ask if it was permissible for her to try to clean a carpet  that had 
been marked, as she had the necessary equipment at home. The representative  from Great 
Lakes agreed she could try, so long as she had a record of the original damage,  and given  a 
claim reference number.
Mrs W contacted  Great  Lakes the next day to say shed successfully cleaned the carpet. 
She was upset to find Great Lakes had logged a claim (which would show  on industry 
databases) as she didnt think shed registered one. She says it wasnt  made  clear  asking  for 
advice would be recorded as a claim. She and Mr W are worried there might be an impact  
on premiums and applying for other insurance  going  forwards.
Great Lakes says it records  all enquiries,  whether  they are claims or reports  of incidents that 
might lead to a claim, as claims on its internal records.  It says it talked to Mrs W about  the 
claims process  including getting  her agreement to log a claim and providing a reference 
number. It says any claim potentially recorded  on industry databases  would show a nil 
payment  and that it was cancelled the following day. So there shouldnt be an impact on 
Mr and Mrs W going forwards.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy  about that so brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Great  Lakes had 
done enough to let Mrs W know a claim would be recorded during the call. He asked Great 
Lakes to check what it had recorded  on shared industry databases (as opposed  to its own 
internal records) and Great Lakes says theres nothing recorded.
Mr and Mrs W remain unhappy so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, for much the same reasons.
Ive listened to the phone call where Mrs W called to ask for advice on whether  she should 
try to clean  the carpet before registering a claim. And Im satisfied Great  Lakes talked to Mrs 
W about a claim and gave her a reference number. So I dont think Great  Lakes did much 
wrong at this point.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws frustration  that this might now mean  they have to provide 
additional information if they are applying for insurance elsewhere. Great Lakes says it didnt 
find anything on the industry databases  when it searched, so I think its up to Mr and Mrs W 
whether to include information about this if they do apply  for insurance elsewhere.
Ref: DRN28398872Theres no evidence to say the way the call was treated  that is logged as a claim on Great 
Lakes own records  will affect premiums  in future years. But, given this hasnt  happened  I 
wouldnt ask Great Lakes  to do anything about  it now, as its not fair to ask a business  to 
compensate a customer for something that might or might not happen.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2839887