K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the quality of a mobile phone  supplied  under a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Telefonica UK Limited (trading as O2). Hes also complained about: 
Telefonicas handling of a claim  hed made  after the phone developed a fault.  
The way Telefonica  administered his agreements. 
background
Mr C bought a mobile phone  under a credit agreement with Telefonica  in July 2016.  In 
May 2017, the phone  developed  a fault so he took it back to the Telefonica store. Mr C tells 
us that the Telefonica store told him the phone would be repaired under warranty. At this 
point, he decided to buy a tablet from Telefonica, also under a credit  agreement with it, to 
use while his phone  was being repaired. 
Following on from this, Telefonica contacted Mr C to let him know  that the repair to his 
phone wouldnt be covered under warranty because the handset  showed  signs of being 
damaged  which meant the phone was out of warranty. It said that his phone would be 
available to collect from the Telefonica  store. Telefonica wrote to Mr C and let him know that 
it would  cost around £125 to fix it. Mr C didnt want to collect it because it wasnt  working. 
When it became clear that Mr C wasnt going to collect the phone,  Telefonica  sent it off for 
recycling. From November 2017,  Mr C stopped paying towards his credit  agreements.  His 
phone and tablet  service were disconnected and his outstanding debt was passed to 
another business to collect. 
Mr C has complained about the quality of the phone.  He thinks  it should  have  been  repaired 
under warranty. And hes unhappy his credit file has been negatively  affected. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She pointed out that we only 
have the power  to consider a complaint about  Telefonicas actions. This is because Mr C 
entered into a credit  agreement with Telefonica. Our investigator didnt think  that Telefonica  
had made  a mistake. 
Our investigator considered a complaint about  whether or not Mr C should  have had a 
successful claim  against  Telefonica  in relation  to the quality of goods supplied  under the 
agreement. However,  she didnt think that there was enough evidence to show  there had 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. She also felt that Telefonica wasnt  wrong to 
report missed  payments to the credit reference  agencies where it didnt receive  payment, so 
she didnt make any recommendations. 
Mr C didnt agree. He says that the problem  with the phone was due to an inherent  fault,  not 
because it was damaged. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I explained that were  not able to consider every complaint  we receive.  So I thought about 
what I can consider against  Telefonica  and why. 
Ref: DRN21885802service from the Telefonica  store
The mobile phone shop that Mr C is complaining about forms part of Telefonica. But in order 
for our service  to be able to look into a complaint about the service  received from the 
Telefonica store, the complaint would have to relate  to an act or omission by it in carrying out 
an activity we have  the power  to investigate, or an ancillary activity in connection with it. The 
section in the FCAs handbook that covers  our complaint handling  rules  is known as 
Dispute Resolution (DISP).  DISP  2.3.1 R sets out what activities  the ombudsman  can 
consider a complaint about. The DISP  rule can be found online,  or a paper copy can be 
provided on request.   
Mr C complained about the information  he received from the Telefonica store relating to the 
repair of his phone. But I didnt think I could  fairly  say Mr Cs complaint about the Telefonica 
stores service, nor the outcome of the warranty claim, could be considered to be related  to 
an act or omission by Telefonica in carrying  out an activity we have the power to investigate. 
This is because it doesnt relate to a financial service. Therefore, I said that I didnt have the 
power to consider Mr Cs complaint about what happened in the Telefonica store. 
However, Mr C bought his phone and tablet under regulated credit  agreements with 
Telefonica. Our service is able to look into complaints about  these  sorts  of agreements. So I 
said that I was able to consider a complaint about  how Telefonica administered  Mr Cs 
agreement and whether or not Mr C has a valid claim against  it relating to the quality of the 
goods supplied  through the loan, i.e., the phone. I also said I could consider whether  
Telefonica acted fairly by passing the debt on to a third party. 
quality of the phone
The agreements set out that Telefonica is the supplier  of the goods, and that it can be held 
responsible for certain problems when things  go wrong. In this case, Telefonica is the 
supplier and the creditor, so a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship doesnt exist and 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 doesnt  apply. However, as Telefonica  has 
supplied the goods and provided the credit  it is still liable  for the quality of goods because of 
its connected lender  liability.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  was implied  into the contracts  when Mr C bought  his 
phone and tablet.  Under contracts  like these, there  are implied  conditions  that the goods 
supplied will be of satisfactory quality.  The CRA  says the quality  of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods,  the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
I considered whether the phone was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr C. The 
phone was brand new,  and so should have been in perfect working order,  free from even 
minor defects. Telefonica has said that the current  problems with the phone  are down to 
misuse. 
Ref: DRN21885803I accepted its possible  that the phone was defective in some way when it was supplied to 
Mr C, and theres a possibility that there  was a problem  during manufacturing  his particular 
phone. But had there been a manufacturing problem I thought it more likely than not that 
there would have been an issue soon  after Mr C bought  the phone. As it is, the phone didnt 
have a problem  until almost a year after Mr C bought it. Had the phone been inherently  faulty  
or if it was not sufficiently  durable, on balance, I didnt think it would have  lasted as long as it 
did without an issue. 
In the circumstances, I thought the most likely thing to have happened is that the phone was 
damaged at some point  in Mr Cs ownership  and this has contributed to the fault. Therefore, 
I wasnt persuaded that the phone was of unsatisfactory quality.  There is also no indication 
that there  were any problems with the tablet.  So I didnt  consider Telefonica needed to take 
any action. 
administration of the agreement
I also reviewed the terms of the credit agreements and noted they both say that Telefonica 
can disconnect the goods and terminate  the agreement if the customer  doesnt make  their 
required payments. Telefonica  is also required to report accurate information to the credit  
reference agencies  about how Mr C runs his account. So I didnt  think it was wrong for 
Telefonica to disconnect the goods or report missed payments to the credit  reference 
agencies when Mr C stopped paying towards  his agreements. 
The agreements also set out that Telefonica  can assign the debts. So I didnt think it was 
wrong (or unfair) of it to pass the debts over to a third party to seek to recover  payment.
For the reasons  given  and, taking into account what  I have the power to consider,  I couldnt  
see that Telefonica had acted unreasonably  and so I didnt propose  to direct it to take any 
action.   
Mr C didnt agree with the provisional decision. In summary, he said that he hadnt damaged 
the phone  and that there was no external damage  on it. He said that the Telefonica store  
told him that it was a common  fault and would  be covered by the warranty. He also felt that 
we were incorrectly accepting Telefonicas claim that he damaged the phone  intentionally.
Telefonica didnt  have anything further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the phone is no longer available to be inspected,  I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. I can understand why Mr C would be unhappy if he was incorrectly  
told that the repair would be covered under warranty, but what  I have to decide is whether or 
not the phone was of satisfactory  quality  when it was supplied  to him. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont have the power  to consider the complaint about what happened 
in the Telefonica  store.  
Ref: DRN21885804In the circumstances, and given when  the fault occurred, I still think its more likely than not 
that the phone was damaged at some point after it was supplied  to Mr C. I havent made any 
finding on what caused the damage. And theres nothing  to suggest that it was damaged 
intentionally. But I dont  think  theres  sufficient evidence to show  that the phone wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. 
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2188580