K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Mortgage  Business Plc (TMB) didnt treat them  fairly 
when they got into financial difficulties. They want some money and interest refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs G used to have  a mortgage with TMB,  bought through a broker.  They said that it 
didnt treat them fairly when they got into financial difficulties after Mr G lost his business, 
and it just got a possession  order. Mr and Mrs G felt TMB couldve reduced the interest  rate 
or freeze interest, particularly as they were in the process of selling the property (which took 
some time).
Mr and Mrs G complained  to TMB. TMB  wouldnt uphold the complaint as Mr and Mrs G 
were in arrears and said that the possession proceedings  were  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. It said that it had worked  with them while the property was being sold,  and 
that it was reasonable to instruct solicitors to deal with matters. TMB pointed  out that the 
mortgage allowed  interest to be charged, and it wasnt its policy  to freeze  interest. It also 
noted that the delays in selling the property were nothing to do with TMB.  But TMB did think 
that it couldve delayed  some of the legal action taken once an offer to buy the property had 
been made and refunded legal costs  of £871.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. She noted  the large amount of arrears and didnt think  issuing possession 
proceedings was unfair in the circumstances. The adjudicator also didnt think that TMB had 
to offer to freeze or reduce  the interest  and it wasnt its fault that the property took so long to 
sell. She noted  that TMB didnt  take action to enforce the possession order  to help 
Mr and Mrs G to sell the property  themselves. The adjudicator  thought the refund of legal 
costs was fair but didnt think more compensation was reasonable or fair.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed.  They said the buyer took too long to buy the property. The 
adjudicator explained that this wasnt the fault of TMB. Mr and Mrs G said that TMB didnt 
show any compassion and it shouldnt have changed its solicitors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cant interfere with a court order. A court  made the possession order and heard 
Mr and Mrs Gs concerns  about the solicitors. As a result, I cant  say that the possession 
proceedings and the actions of the solicitors involved were unlawful,  and I note that in their 
complaint to this service,  Mr and Mrs G didnt  raise these points. What  Mr and Mrs G had 
said is that the interest couldve  been reduced or frozen and TMB didnt help them  when 
they were in financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN20767702Lenders are able to charge interest  under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage; 
consumers agree to this when they take out the mortgage. Lenders arent required to reduce 
or freeze interest when a consumer is in financial difficulties, though this doesnt mean 
lenders cant take such actions. What this service looks at is whether its fair to continue  to 
charge interest.  In this case, I think that it was fair. The debt was due for payment (and there  
were arrears), interest was due under  the terms and conditions  of the mortgage, and any 
delays in selling the property wasnt the fault of TMB. TMB doesnt have a policy of freezing 
interest.
When a consumer is in financial difficulties, lenders must act fairly. I can see that TMB  didnt 
enforce the possession  order due to the proposed  sale, though  the arrears  increased. I can 
also see that there were  numerous conversations between Mr G and TMB.  TMB got details 
of the income  and spending of Mr and Mrs G, and considered  offers when made. Payment  
plans were put in place.  The notes  written by TMB  say that at times Mr G didnt want to talk 
about the account (and I place weight  on those notes as they were written  before this 
complaint was made and at the time of the calls), and I can see from the notes that the 
conversations were often  difficult  for Mr G. But TMB wasnt required to accept a lower 
amount than it was legally entitled  to claim, and I cant  say that it was unfair for it to adopt 
that view after considering the offers made. TMB considered  the situation, agreed  a payment 
plan and didnt  enforce  the possession order. I cant say that it acted unfairly.
TMB accepts that some of the legal  steps  taken after the sale was agreed wasnt  necessary 
and refunded the legal costs relating to this. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2076770