K820x#14Complaint
Mr O says HSBC  UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his bank account  and wont  return  money to 
him which was paid into his account.  
Background
Mr O had a current account  with HSBC.
Between July and September 2018,  four payments totalling just over £14,500 were paid into 
Mr Os account.  HSBC  reviewed Mr Os account and asked him to provide information  about 
the payments  and proof of his entitlement to the money
Mr O told HSBC that the money  was from his parents  and was intended to be used to pay 
for his education. He explained that his parents had used a third party to make the payments 
and gave HSBC  paperwork which he says shows he is entitled to the money. HSBC said 
Mr O hasnt provided enough information and contacted the sending banks. The sending 
banks told HSBC their customers hadnt authorised the payments to Mr O and had been the 
victims of a scam. So they asked HSBC to send the money back.  Mr  O had spent some of 
the money, so it was only able to send just over £10,500 back to the other banks.
In December 2018, HSBC decided to close Mr Os account immediately. 
An investigator looked into Mr Os case. She said HSBC  acted  in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it asked Mr O for more information about  the payments into his 
account. And it closed  his account in line with the terms and conditions.  Mr O disagreed. He 
said hes not done anything wrong and wants to know where HSBC  sent his money.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
HSBC is required to have  measures in place to review  payments to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. As part of its review process HSBC  are entitled to ask a customer for 
more information.  And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role 
is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back  in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt  happened.
HSBC asked Mr O to provide information  about his entitlement to the money  which was paid 
into his account  between July and September 2018.  Mr O gave HSBC copies of three  
international invoices which he said is enough to show the money paid into his account  
belongs to him. He explained that the money  came  from his parents account and they used 
a third party to get the best exchange  rate. 
HSBC said the information wasnt enough to show Mr O was entitled to the money. And 
having seen a copy of the paperwork,  Mr O provided, I agree. I say this because it doesnt  
show the payment  was intended for Mr O. Theres also no reference on the paperwork about  
education fees. And the payments are coming from accounts in Spain and Australia. And not 
Ref: DRN28483652Nigeria as Mr O has suggested. Mr O has said he cant  provide any explanation for why the 
money came from these countries. And says he doesnt know  the account holders. So I can 
understand HSBCs  concerns.
Banks must  be able to talk to each other to protect their customers  when money  has been 
sent to the wrong account or they believe  fraud has taken place. And this is what  happened  
here. The other banks  told HSBC  the payments of just over £14,500,  to Mr Os account  were 
fraudulent. So it returned the money to the other banks.  Ive looked at the evidence  which  
HSBC relied on to return the money. Having done so, I cant  say HSBC  has done anything  
wrong. So Im not going to ask HSBC  to return the money  to Mr O. 
Under the terms and conditions  HSBC could close Mr Os account by giving him 60 days  
notice. And in certain circumstances  it can close an account immediately. Having looked at 
whats happened here, Im satisfied  that HSBC was entitled to close  the account as its 
already done.  Ive also seen a copy of a letter  HSBC  sent to Mr O dated  6 December 2018, 
which informed him it would be closing his account  on without notice. So, Im satisfied that 
HSBC has complied with the terms and conditions of the account.   
I know Mr O wants  HSBC to provide the details of where it sent the money  it removed from 
his account. But HSBC isnt obliged to provide  this information to him. And I cant add 
anything further  to the advice already provided  to Mr O by our investigator.  
In summary,  based on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant say HSBC has done  anything wrong or 
treated Mr O unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2848365