K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. The complaint is brought  on her behalf  by a claims  management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which was taken  out when Mrs D applied for a credit 
card in 1995.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ds 
representative disagreed saying, in summary, that Lloyds didnt do enough to highlight the 
total costs and benefit provided under the policy. So Mrs D couldnt decide  if the policy was 
value for money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Lloyds doesnt  have a full record  of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
Lloyds cant provide a copy  of Mrs Ds application form and neither party knows how Mrs D 
made her application  whether it was in a branch or by phone, post or online. Mrs D says 
she wouldnt  have knowingly taken PPI because she knew  it wasnt a good insurance  and 
she wouldve said no to it if shed been asked. Ive carefully considered what Mrs D says and 
I accept thats possible.  But its also possible Mrs D did want the PPI but cant now 
remember agreeing  to it given the time thats passed. And that what she says now is 
because of the more recent publicity about  PPI mis-selling.  Im sorry but Im not persuaded 
that Mrs D wasnt made aware  the PPI had been  added  I think it more likely than not that 
Lloyds made  her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Its not clear whether  advice was given so, to be fair to Mrs D, Ive considered the case  to 
the higher standard  of an advised sale. Overall, it doesnt  look as if the PPI was unsuitable 
for Mrs D based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She told us she wouldnt 
have received any sick pay if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident.  The PPI 
wouldve met her monthly repayments for up to 12 months if she couldnt  work and covered 
her if shed become  unemployed.  So I think the PPI couldve been  a useful benefit.
Mrs D was self-employed, but as the terms of the policy didnt make it more difficult for her to 
make a claim, I dont  think she wouldve made a different decision if these had been brought 
to her attention.
Ref: DRN24416962Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But Mrs D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover.  She wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs D would have made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  she would still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2441696