K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Money (Post Office 
Money), regarding information he was given about his credit  card interest rate. He was 
advised to make a complaint which was not upheld. Mr D wants  £100 compensation for his 
wasted time and distress.
background
Mr D holds a Post Office  Money credit card. He pays the balance off in its entirety each 
month. 
In August  2018,  he contacted Post Office  Money  to ask about a purchase of foreign 
currency. He wanted to know the interest  rate that would  apply, and whether  it was treated 
as a cash advance  or as a purchase. 
Mr D spoke to an agent, and was advised that the purchase of currency would be treated as 
a purchase. The agent  then told Mr D that the interest rate applicable to his purchases was 
22.9%. 
Mr D queried this, as on his statements it said that the interest  rate for purchases was 
20.9%. 
The agent  told Mr D that he could make a complaint about the discrepancy in the information 
if he wanted to. When  Mr D confirmed  that he would like to complain, the agent initiated a 
complaint. 
Post Office  Money sent Mr D its final response  to his complaint  shorty  afterwards. 
This response explained that the interest  rate displayed on Mr Ds statements  was correct 
and was the rate which, divided by 12, would apply to any purchases Mr D made,  which 
were not cleared in full each month.  It also explained that the rate given by the agent was a 
representative rate which included  compound interest. 
Post Office  Money confirmed that both rate were accurate and so it did not uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and did not offer any compensation. 
Mr D was not satisfied  with this response  and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that the information initially provided by Post Office Money could have been clearer, but 
that clear information  was provided promptly. He felt that the issue  was not so serious  as for 
him to recommend  that Post Office Money pay compensation.  
Mr D was not happy with this view and asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21168742I have, in particular,  listened to the call recording provided by Mr D, and the final response 
sent by the business. 
I agree  with the adjudicators view that the information provided by the agent was not entirely 
helpful, however  I also agree that the correct, clear  information was quickly  provided  to Mr D 
in the final response. 
I understand that Mr D found it frustrating to receive  contradictory information. He has 
described his inconvenience in having  to deal with a complaint and his distress at thinking 
that the rate displayed on his statement was inaccurate.  
I have borne in mind,  however,  that Mr D only had to wait a short  time before the information 
was clarified, and that he confirmed during the call that his balance  was paid off each month 
so he was not actually charged interest in any event. I also note that the complaint  was 
actually initiated  by the agent rather than Mr D. 
As a result, whilst I appreciate that receiving inconsistent information frustrated Mr D, I do 
not think that Mr D was caused significant  upset or worry, and the business acted quickly to 
remedy the misunderstanding. 
Whilst I realise Mr D will be disappointed by this decision, I do not uphold  the complaint and 
do not ask the Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2116874