K820x#14Complaint
Ms R complains that the car she leased under a hire purchase (personal contract purchase) 
agreement arranged by Hippo Vehicle Solutions  Limited (Hippo) has experienced problems 
and that Hippo hasnt assisted her. She says the warranty provided wasnt  fit for purpose. 
Background
Ms R entered into a finance agreement to acquire  a used  car in 2017 and bought a 12 month  
warranty. This was arranged by Hippo. She says that after receiving the car in 2017,  she has 
experienced a number  of issues which havent been resolved. She says that the gearbox 
and clutch both need replacing and the air conditioning needs to be regassed.  She says she 
has contacted  Hippo  on several  occasions  to discuss  the issues but the warranty  she has 
isnt fit for purpose. She says the issues cannot  be resolved in a single garage and would 
require her to travel  over 40 miles  which  isnt possible  given her family situation. She says 
Hippo have ignored her request for the car to be collected and a courtesy car provided and 
that she hasnt  been sent a copy of the terms and conditions of the warranty.
Ms R wants  Hippo to pick up her car and carry out a service, MOT and any required repairs  
with a courtesy car provided for the period of any repairs and to extend her warranty or a full 
refund of the warranty including any interest.  She says that her complaint  was made while  
her warranty  was still in place but that Hippo took a number of months to respond  during 
which period her warranty period expired. 
Hippo says that the vehicle underwent a health check  and service  before it was provided to 
Ms R and that it had a full service history  at the point  of supply. It says that Ms R contacted  
the warranty company  in January 2018 with a clutch and brake fault and then in June 2018 
with a brake, clutch and air conditioning fault and was told on both occasions to have  
diagnostics carried out on the vehicle. It says it isnt aware that this had happened.  It says 
the MOT carried out in October  2018 only listed one advisory of a nail in a tyre which  it says 
suggested there was no fault at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Hippo had acted 
unreasonably by requiring Ms R to take the car for diagnostics before taking further action. 
He said that Hippo wasnt required to collect the car from Ms R or provide a courtesy car. He 
noted that there had been a delay in a final response letter  being sent to Ms R due to her 
complaint being  sent to a mailbox that wasnt checked regularly rather  than the consumer 
complaint mailbox.  
Ms R didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said she wasnt provided with any terms or 
conditions for the warranty and so Hippo couldnt  say that the collection and repair of the 
vehicle was not part of the warranty as there  was no evidence  of this. She said the only 
garages she could  take the vehicle to were  miles away which wasnt  feasible  given  her 
family situation. She says she contacted Hippo to ask for special consideration but it wasnt 
sympathetic.
Ms R later provided a copy  of a warranty booklet given to her from a colleague who leased a 
vehicle at a similar time.  She said this included the option of a courtesy vehicle but that 
Hippo had refused  to accept this was part of the service.
Ref: DRN21122942My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R entered into a finance agreement to acquire  a used  car. Under  the regulations a 
complaint can be raised against the finance company if the car supplied  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case Ms Rs complaint is against Hippo in its 
capacity as a credit  broker as Hippo arranged the finance and the warranty. Because  of this I 
havent considered whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
but I have considered Ms Rs complaint that the warranty she was provided with wasnt fit for 
purpose and therefore  mis-sold.
For me to uphold this complaint I would need  to find that Hippo had provided information that 
was misleading  and had induced Ms R into entering  into the finance agreement. I can see on 
the demand and needs statement Ms R has said she wished  to purchase the 12 month 
warranty and this is included in the order form. The warranty was provided  by another 
company and I havent seen any details of the warranty. But as this complaint is against  
Hippo, I would expect  it to have informed Ms R about the financial agreements she was 
entering into and had she not been happy  with these or required further information I would 
have expected her to request this at the time.  In the Hippo terms of business  it says that 
Ms R should  have read all of the insurance documents  provided to ensure they meet her 
needs and that policy documents are available on request.
Ms R says that she wasnt provided with the terms of the warranty  despite asking for these. 
Hippo says that it sends all the warranty documents  out by post, which  includes a booklet 
detailing the terms  of the policy and also the warranty certificate with the customers  policy  
details. It says that given  Ms R contacted  the warranty company she must have received the 
information. On balance I find it more likely than not that Ms R did receive  the warranty 
information and, based on the evidence I have, I do not find I can say that the warranty  or 
HPA were misrepresented  to Ms R. 
I understand that Ms R isnt satisfied with the service she received from Hippo when she has 
raised issues with her car. However I can only consider the role Hippo had in arranging  the 
finance and I do not find that I have enough  evidence to say that this was mis-sold. 
As I set out above, if Ms R wishes to raise a complaint about the quality of the car at the 
point of supply  this would need  to be raised  with the finance provider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112294