K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that he wasnt offered GAP insurance when a car was supplied  to him under 
a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand Bank  Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, and 
that its recorded a default  on his credit file.
 
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr L under a hire purchase agreement  with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in July 2018. He says that he wasnt  told that the car had been  
modified and it was supplied  to him in a poor condition. He says that hed agreed to make 
monthly payments  of £130.79 but after hed signed  the agreement  he noticed that the 
payment was £134.83. He was involved in a collision  in November 2018 and the car was 
declared a total loss but he then became aware  that he didnt have GAP insurance and 
hadnt been offered it by the dealer  or MotoNovo Finance. 
He complained to the dealer and then MotoNovo Finance. MotoNovo Finance said that Mr L 
had opted out of receiving marketing from it so it couldnt offer him GAP  insurance and the 
dealer wasnt authorised  to offer GAP insurance.  It apologised that it hadnt  told him to 
maintain his monthly payments  while  his insurance  claim  was ongoing and it removed the 
fees that it had applied  to his account, agreed to amend  his credit file to remove the missed 
payment marker  and offered  him £30 for the distress and inconvenience  that he was caused.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. The adjudicator  
recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that the insurer settled 
Mr Ls claim in March  2019 and paid £4,400 to MotoNovo Finance which  left £1,174.62 
outstanding on his account  which has increased  to £2,095.84 because he hasnt made any 
payments to it since October  2018. She said that hed opted out of receiving marketing from 
MotoNovo Finance so it wouldnt be able to offer him any GAP insurance. But she 
recommended that it should increase its offer of compensation from £30 to £75 to apologise 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  following  its failure  to advise him to maintain his 
payments whilst he was in the process of claiming on his insurance. 
MotoNovo Finance has paid to Mr L the £75 compensation  recommended  by the 
adjudicator. But Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He 
says, in summary, that MotoNovo  Finance  showed a lack of care and consideration by not 
offering him GAP insurance because he opted out of marketing as GAP  insurance doesnt 
qualify as marketing  and its a legal requirement  to offer GAP  insurance to every  single 
customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L chose the car online and contacted  the dealer. The advert  for the car included a 
detailed description  of it and a video  was attached which showed the car and the 
modifications that had been made  to it. So I consider that Mr L ought reasonably  to have 
been aware at that time that the car had been modified. He agreed to purchase the car and 
he electronically signed pre-contract credit information and a hire purchase  agreement.  Both 
documents show that the monthly payment was £134.83. Mr L says that hed agreed  to 
Ref: DRN28665442make monthly payments of £130.79 and didnt notice that it had changed  until after hed 
signed the documents because he was in a rush to sign them.  
But the agreement  clearly states:
This is a Hire-Purchase and Personal  Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms;  and that:
By signing this agreement the Customer declares that: 
1. The details set out above are correct.
2. The Customer:
a) Has had his/her attention drawn  to the provisions of clause 10 overleaf.
b) Declares  he/she  has received and read the Pre-Contract Information
c) Declares he/she has read the below information about PCP where  signing 
for a PCP Agreement.
d) Declares  he/she  has read the Use of information section and 
acknowledges that MotoNovo Finance will process  their personal data for 
legitimate purposes.
Both the agreement and the pre-contract credit information clearly show that Mr L wasnt 
paying for GAP  insurance (or other protections). The dealer says that it isnt authorised to 
offer GAP  insurance  and MotoNovo Finance says that Mr L had opted out of receiving  
marketing information  so it was unable to offer him GAP insurance. Mr L says that its a legal 
requirement that GAP  insurance is offered to a customer. But Im not persuaded that theres 
any requirement for a credit provider (such as MotoNovo Finance) to offer GAP insurance  to 
a customer. So I find that MotoNovo Finance hasnt acted incorrectly  in not offering  GAP 
insurance to Mr L.
But I consider that its reasonable  to conclude that if hed read the agreement  and pre-
contract credit information he ought to have been  aware that he wasnt taking GAP 
insurance and that if he wanted it he couldve either  asked MotoNovo Finance about it or 
taken out a policy with another provider.  
Mr L complained to the dealer about the condition  in which  the car was supplied  to him and it 
offered him £20 of fuel and a valet of the car. Mr L accepted that offer but never  took it up. 
The car was declared  a write-off following a road traffic collision in October 2018. Mr L hadnt  
declared to his insurer that his car had been modified so was concerned  that it would declare 
his insurance invalid. But it paid £4,400 to MotoNovo Finance to settle Mr Ls claim. That left 
£1,174.62 outstanding on his account  which has increased to £2,095.84 because  he hasnt 
made any payments  to it since October 2018. 
MotoNovo Finance has apologised  that it didnt  tell Mr L to maintain his monthly payments 
while his insurance  claim  was ongoing   which had led to arrears on his account and a 
default being recorded on his credit file. It said that it had removed the fees that it had 
applied to his account, agreed  to amend his credit file to remove  the missed payment marker 
and offered him £30 for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused. The adjudicator 
recommended that it should increase the compensation  to £75 and it has since paid that 
amount to Mr L. And Ive seen evidence to show that it refunded two default  notice  fees of 
£15 each and an unpaid payment fee of £5 to Mr Ls account.
Ref: DRN28665443So other than its failure to tell Mr L that he needed  to maintain his monthly payments whilst 
his insurance claim was ongoing,  Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show 
that MotoNovo  Finance has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr L  including in response 
to his complaint.  It has paid him £75 compensation, removed some fees from his account 
and removed the missed  payment marker from his credit file. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  MotoNovo Finance  to waive all or any part of the outstanding balance  on 
Mr Ls account or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
I consider that it's fair and reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance  to seek  repayment  of the 
amount that its owed  by Mr L (to the extent that its legally entitled  to do so). I suggest that 
he contacts it to try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement that takes  account  of his 
income and expenditure. 
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. But as FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, has already paid £75 compensation to Mr L, 
I dont require it to take any further action in response to his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2866544