K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lowell Financial Ltd incorrectly  registered three  defaults against  his 
credit file in 2015,  despite the accounts  having different dates of birth and slightly different 
names.
background
In 2015 Lowell Financial Ltd purchased outstanding  debts from a lender who had been 
unable to collect them. These debts were traced to Mr Hs address  and they had very similar 
names to Mr H. The dates of birth were  different on each  account.
After purchasing the debts, Lowell took over collection proceedings and proceeded to write 
to the name held on each account  at Mr Hs address.  Numerous letters were sent during 
2015 and 2016. Post for two of the accounts was returned as undelivered in November 
2016, after which no further correspondence was sent.
During this time, Lowell registered defaults  against the names  and addresses  it held for the 
debts. Despite the discrepancy  with dates of birth, these were reported to Mr Hs credit  file.
In April 2016, Lowell received a query  from one of the credit reference agencies  (CRAs), 
saying that Mr H didnt  recognise the entry on his credit file. Lowell advised the credit  
reference agency that Mr H should get in touch  directly so it could investigate.  Mr H didnt 
contact Lowell at that time. 
In March 2018, Lowell received another query from a different CRA about the information 
being reported about Mr H. Again it advised the agency that Mr H should get in touch directly  
with it and this time he did, contacting Lowell in April 2018.
Having listened  to Mr Hs concerns,  Lowell investigated and determined that the accounts it 
had registered  as defaults may have been set up fraudulently. It took steps to remove the 
accounts from Mr Hs credit  file and stopped chasing  payment. Lowell also offered £250 in 
compensation.
Mr H wasnt happy with Lowells conclusions. He felt Lowell had breached the 
Data Protection Act 1998 by adding inaccurate information to his credit  file. He also believes 
hes had to pay a higher  interest rate on loans taken out since 2015 because of the defaults  
incorrectly reported to the credit  reference  agencies.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He didnt think  Lowell needed to do 
anything more. He thought Mr H could have  taken steps to mitigate the impact of the wrongly 
added defaults.  And he wasnt  persuaded that Mr H had faced  higher  interest  rates because 
of the error. So he didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings. He doesnt agree  he could have done more  
to rectify the error himself.  And he says hes made it clear that he was charged higher than 
normal interest rates  and this must be because of the defaults.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN20174712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how distressing it would have been for Mr H finding out these  accounts  had 
been linked  to his credit file. I understand his wish to have all traces of the accounts deleted  
from his credit file.
Ive looked at the information that Lowell had about these accounts and how it reported  them  
to the CRAs. 
I note that Mr H did have  his own account with Lowell. 
Lowell has explained  that it treated the accounts with variations of name and date of birth as 
separate, standalone accounts, using different  personal unique reference  numbers 
(PURNs). And its said it would have reported them as such  to credit reference agencies.  
I asked Lowell to provide  me with evidence  that the accounts had separate personal  
reference numbers  and that it sent the information  under separate references, which it has 
done. So, on balance,  I dont think it was Lowell that merged the accounts/information  
together  or that it reported all the separate accounts as though belonging to Mr H. 
Ive thought about the call made  to Lowell by the credit  reference agency in 2016.  I dont 
know whether Mr H received the message that he should contact Lowell  directly.  But as he 
was clearly keeping  a close eye on his credit report,  I think  hed have seen that the default 
wasnt removed or amended after his call to the agency. So Id have  expected him to take 
further steps to follow this up.
I think Lowell  could  potentially have done more to contact Mr H through  the credit  reference 
agency and investigate his concerns at that point. But Ive also considered that Lowell did 
act promptly when Mr H contacted it directly in 2018. And overall  I think the £250 Lowells 
already paid is sufficient  to cover this part of Mr Hs complaint  especially since, as Ive 
explained above, I think Mr H could also have done more to highlight  his concerns.
Mr H has said hes been subject to higher  interest  rates as a result of the incorrectly  reported 
defaults. But lenders take a wide variety of facts into account when making a lending  
decision. And after considering all the information  carefully, Im not persuaded the incorrectly  
reported defaults would have made a significant  difference to the interest rates  offered  to 
Mr H. 
Mr H had previously defaulted on accounts, at least one of which would  have shown on his 
credit report  between 2015 and 2017.  He also had arrears showing on at least  one account. 
In addition, a number of the high interest  rates  hes given as examples come from short term 
and payday lenders, a market known for particularly high interest rates.  So overall  I dont 
think I can fairly say the wrongly reported  defaults  were the reason for Mr H being  offered 
higher interest  rates.
Ref: DRN20174713Lowell has now removed  all the accounts from Mr Hs credit file and paid him £250  
compensation. Im not recommending it do any more.  
I understand Mr H has complained to the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) about the 
alleged data breach. I think that concern is best handled by the ICO and so I havent 
commented on it further here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2017471