K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  Barclays  Bank UK PLC closed his accounts and placed a fraud  marker  
against his name.  He  brings this complaint on behalf of a business  - T.
background
In September  2017, Barclays wrote to Mr L telling  him that it was closing the account he held 
with Barclays  both business and personal.   It gave him 62 days notice.
Once it closed  the accounts, it then placed a fraud  marker against Mr Ls name.  This marker 
remained in place for just over two years.  It agreed  to remove it after this service became  
involved in Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L wanted his accounts to be re-instated and the marker removed. Barclays initially  
refused to do to both so M L brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained to Mr L that she wouldnt be asking Barclays to re-open the 
accounts as this was a business decision for it (Barclays) to make.   In relation to the CIFAS 
marker, she asked Barclays for it to be removed and it agreed.
Mr L said the marker had a detrimental effect  upon him and that he had suffered financially.  
He was asked  to evidence the impact  specifically to his business  T.
Based on his further submissions, our investigator  thought Barclays  should  pay £500  for the 
inconvenience caused to T but said she wouldnt be asking that it paid anymore.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
account closure
As the investigator  has explained, this is not something, generally speaking,  which  this 
service would comment on.  Our role would be to see whether Barclays did anything  wrong 
in the procedure  and I cant  see that it has.  In accordance with its terms and conditions,  it 
gave Mr L the relevant  notice.  Barclays retains its commercial discretion as to whom it has a 
banking relationship with.
fraud marker
Its disappointing that this marker  had been placed on Mr Ls file.  Barclays has a 
responsibility to ensure  it reaches the relevant threshold before doing so.  And its also 
disappointing to note that it took so long for it to be removed.
That said,  when thinking about compensating for the impact  the marker  has had on T, this 
service needs to be provided  with evidence.
Ref: DRN28134642Mr L submits that he has suffered a substantial financial loss.  But I have seen nothing in 
evidence to support  that assertion  and it has been  asked  for. 
In the circumstances, I think an award  of £500  for the inconvenience  this has caused  T is a 
fair and reasonable one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC shall pay T, through Mr L, £500 for the inconvenience caused  in 
bringing this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813464