K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains about the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  handled a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
background
Ms T has a home insurance policy underwritten by Admiral which covers contents and 
buildings. She made a claim after a large volume  of water leaked from her fish tank.
Admiral settled some elements of the claim - relating to contents damaged by the escaped 
water - to Ms T's satisfaction.
But Ms T was unhappy that Admiral wouldn't pay for a replacement fish tank or for a number 
of items that were inside the tank - a heater, filters  and other equipment - which were 
damaged as a result  of the leak.
She disagreed with the amount Admiral offered to cash settle the claim for replacement  of 
the damaged  wooden  flooring in her hall and lounge.
Admiral also told her they wouldn't pay the VAT element  of any quote  for the flooring  
replacement until after the work  had been  carried out, which  Ms T thought was unfair.
And she was unhappy  with the delays in Admiral's handling of her claim, which is on-going.
Ms T complained to Admiral. They admitted there had been some  unnecessary  delays in 
their handling  of the claim and offered Ms T £100 for her trouble and upset.
But they said their decision to decline the claim for the fish tank was correct. And they 
thought their offer of a cash  settlement  for the flooring was reasonable on the basis of the 
information they had at the time - though they did say they would look at this again if Ms T 
were able to provide more quotes  for the work.
Ms T wasn't happy with this outcome, so she complained to us. Our investigator looked into 
it and thought the complaint should  be upheld.
He said Admiral should: re-assess the elements of the claim relating to the equipment in the 
tank; re-consider the amount offered to cash settle the claim for flooring once Ms T had 
provided more quotes for the work; and pay her a further £200 in compensation for her 
trouble and upset  (in addition to the £100 already offered).
Admiral disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
Because my view about what Admiral needed  to do to put things right differed  from that 
taken by our investigator, I decided to issue a provisional decision before I make my final 
decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking  before I make my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services  last word on the case.
Ref: DRN22051002my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although they are to an extent interrelated, there are five main  issues I have to 
consider when looking at this case.  These relate  to: the fish tank itself; the equipment 
in the tank; the flooring;  the VAT payable on replacement of the flooring; and the 
appropriate amount  of compensation for Ms T's trouble and upset. I'll deal with these 
issues in turn - and in that order.
the fish tank
Ms T wants Admiral to pay for a replacement tank.
Admiral pointed out that Ms T's policy contains a clause which says they won't  pay for 
damage caused by "mis-using " the item in question.
When her tank leaked, Ms T contacted the supplier  about her warranty, which  was 
still in force.
The supplier  refused to replace the tank because Ms T had placed  it on an item of 
furniture narrower than the tank itself. Ms T had decided not to purchase  a purpose-
made stand  which  came  with the tank.
The supplier  pointed out that placing the tank on a support which  was too narrow 
caused stress, which in turn likely led to the tank failing. They said this made  the 
warranty invalid because  the tank hadn't been used in accordance with their 
instructions.
I can't say it's unreasonable for Admiral to decide on this basis  that the tank had been 
misused. That being the case, it's not unreasonable or unfair  for them to decline the 
claim for the tank.
the equipment  in the tank
Ms T's claim included  the cost of two air pumps, two filters, a heater, two skimmers 
and sand which were  in the tank.  The total cost of these items  came to over £900.
Ms T says that when the water drained out of the tank, the equipment was running 
whilst not submerged and as a result of this, the heater exploded. This put the heater 
beyond use or repair  - and also irreparably  damaged the other equipment.
Admiral's loss adjuster told Ms T these items, along  with the fish tank itself, "cannot 
be considered  under  the policy, as this was the cause of the damage  and are (sic) 
excluded under the policy wording".
Ms T queried  this immediately, but I can't see that she was ever given a more  
substantive reason for this part of her claim being  declined - at least  until after she 
complained to us.
Ref: DRN22051003When we first raised this with Admiral, they said they'd instructed the loss adjuster to 
decline the claim because  the equipment formed part of the tank - which was the mis-
used item which  had caused the leak and the subsequent damage.
This seems odd to me. The equipment was separate to the tank. It was purchased 
separately. And it's not true to say it was mis-used.
I've accepted the tank was mis-used, but the mis-use of the tank caused the leak. 
And it was the escape of water which then caused  the damage to both the items  
Admiral have already  agreed to cover  (damaged by contact with the water) and the 
items in the tank (damaged as a result of the lack of water).
The picture is further confused because Admiral later told us they would consider a 
claim for the items in the tank but Ms T hadn't  yet made any such claim. This is 
clearly not true - as is obvious from reading  Admiral's own business  file relating to the 
claim.
Admiral also said they'd only be able to consider a claim now if Ms T could produce 
the damaged  items for their inspection. Admiral made  that offer around a year after 
the accident. And despite the fact their loss adjuster  inspected - or at least  had every 
opportunity to inspect  - the damaged items at the outset.
Ms T tells us the loss adjuster did in fact inspect  the items and took photographs  of 
them at the time. Unsurprisingly in these  circumstances, Ms T doesn't have the 
damaged items any longer.
So, I don't  think  the reasons Admiral have  given for declining this part of Ms T's claim 
are convincing. And I think it would be unfair and unreasonable to refuse to re-
consider the claim  on the basis that Ms T can't now produce the damaged items for 
inspection.
Of course,  I would normally consider it perfectly reasonable for an insurer to insist  on 
inspecting damaged items before  settling  a claim. But that's now impossible in this 
case. And I'm satisfied  on balance that's not Ms T's fault.
So, I'm going  to require Admiral to pay for the damaged items which were in the tank 
at the time of the leak. The exact total cost - over £900 - is set out in the claim notes 
which Admiral themselves provided to us.
the wood flooring
Admiral's loss adjuster had to instruct  their preferred contractor twice to provide 
accurate costings for replacement of Ms T's flooring.  However, after the second visit, 
Admiral had a quote for removal and replacement of the flooring on a like-for-like 
basis.
In the meantime, Ms T had obtained  her own quote  which was significantly more  
expensive. As Ms T has pointed out, the difference in the two quotes is almost 
entirely accounted for by the proposed cost of the flooring material itself.
Ref: DRN22051004Ms T had obtained a price for the flooring from a well-known department store  which 
she said had supplied  the original flooring - although  this was installed by a previous 
owner of her property.  Their cost was almost  twice the amount quoted by Admiral's  
contractor.
It appears to have been established early on that Admiral would cash  settle this 
element of the claim, rather than replace the flooring themselves. Admiral say Ms T 
wanted a cash  settlement.  Ms T says she wasn't  ever offered an alternative. The loss 
adjuster's records, which Admiral provided for us, don't provide any evidence  either  
way.
Based on what Admiral and Ms T have told us, I'm going to assume both parties are 
happy with a cash settlement, if a figure can be agreed. But I'm also going to assume 
that Ms T is at least open to the idea that her flooring might be replaced  on a like-for-
like basis, given that she says she's never been offered this outcome. And I'm going 
to assume Admiral are willing to carry out the replacement  if that's  acceptable to 
Ms T.
The relevant  part of Ms T's policy says that where  Admiral decide not to rebuild or 
repair damage, they will instead "pay...  the estimated cost of repair".  There's no 
further explanation of this, but Admiral  are entitled  to ensure that the estimated cost is 
calculated reasonably - as long as it's enough  to provide an adequate  like-for-like 
replacement.
As Admiral have pointed  out, a like-for-like replacement is exactly what  they asked 
their contractor to cost out. And I don't have any evidence to suggest the contractor  
didn't do exactly that.
There has been some debate  and discussion between  Admiral and Ms T about  
whether Admiral's  contractor's quote was realistic  - and whether the flooring material  
the contractor proposed  to use was of the same standard  as the original flooring. As I 
say, I have no evidence  to suggest it isn't.
I'm aware that insurers can often command prices from contractors  that might  not be 
available to individual buyers on the open  market. If Admiral were in effect forcing  a 
cash settlement on Ms T - in preference to repairing her flooring - then I'd be inclined 
to suggest they should  pay out an amount that would enable  Ms T to get the like-for-
like repairs  done herself.
If on the other hand Admiral wanted to carry out the repairs, but Ms T insisted on a 
cash settlement, it would be reasonable for them to pay out what  it would have cost 
them to repair the flooring  rather than what it would cost Ms T - especially if she were  
proposing to use a specific,  preferred and possibly  expensive  supplier.
It is difficult sometimes for us to disentangle the issues  in claims which  are still on-
going. And it's certainly  not for us to act as an alternative claims assessor. But I'm 
also keen to ensure  that Ms T has some kind of clear answer and outcome from our 
process.
Ref: DRN22051005Bearing all of that in mind, I think Admiral should  offer Ms T a choice at this point. She 
should be asked  to either: (a) accept replacement of her flooring by Admiral's  
contractors; or if that's not what she wants,  (b) accept a cash settlement at the 
amount it would cost Admiral to replace the flooring.
To be clear, if Ms T opts for replacement by Admiral's contractors, I would expect 
Admiral to deliver an actual like-for-like  replacement. I'm not an expert in flooring, but 
I'd expect the material used to be an exact  match.  For example, if the flooring was 
solid oak, at a certain thickness, in units of a certain size, then I'd expect that's 
exactly what Ms T should get in the replacement.
If Ms T still opts for a cash  settlement - despite  having the offer of like-for-like  
replacement by Admiral  - then Admiral  would reasonably be entitled to settle at the 
price it would cost them  to replace her flooring.
In that case, however, the estimate  they use to decide the amount payable should  be 
absolutely clear that the materials being costed are as above (same material, same 
thickness, same size units etc.).
I know Admiral  believe  the estimate  they already have from their contractor meets 
this requirement, but the version I've seen  doesn't contain specific  details of the 
flooring material to be used - and for Ms T's peace  of mind, I think  it should.  If she 
then thinks it falls short of being a like-for-like  match, she can raise  this with Admiral  - 
and then with us if she's not satisfied with their answer.
the VAT payable on repairs  to the flooring
Admiral told Ms T that when they cash settle her flooring  claim,  they'll  initially pay her 
only the amount  for materials and labour etc. and they'll only pay the VAT part of the 
estimate once she provides an invoice to prove the work has been completed. They  
told Ms T  and us - this is what insurers "usually" do.
In my experience, this isn't what insurers  "usually"  do. And as Ms T points out, it 
could also put some customers in a very difficult position if their preferred supplier 
requires immediate payment - or payment in advance - for any work carried out. 
Some customers might not have the means  to pay immediately and then claim back  
the VAT element from their insurer later.
So, if Ms T decides she still wants a cash settlement for the flooring element of her 
claim. Admiral should pay her the full value  of the estimate  they rely on - including  
any VAT payable.
Ms T's trouble and upset
At present, this claim has been  on-going for more than a year.
Admiral have admitted  their communication with Ms T - and with their own loss 
adjuster - hasn't been perfect. And they offered Ms T £100  in compensation for this.
Ref: DRN22051006The information I have  - including Admiral's own business file on Ms T's claim and her 
complaint - shows a poor level of service.  Ms T has had to chase for answers to her 
questions at times, some of her questions and queries  have been  ignored  and on 
occasion she's been provided with information which is at best confusing and at worst  
misleading.
Admiral have recently denied having  had a claim from Ms T for the items  contained  in 
her fish tank.  They clearly  did have  a claim.  And they instructed their loss adjuster  to 
decline it.
Their reasons for that decision  appear  weak. And they weren't  ever explained to 
Ms T. The explanation the loss adjuster says she gave Ms T wasn't clear or 
sufficiently detailed.
The discussion and debate between Ms T, the loss adjuster and Admiral  about the 
cost of replacing the flooring has been  unnecessarily long and confused. In my view, 
if Admiral had explained their position  clearly and comprehensively to Ms T at the 
outset, the claim certainly wouldn't be on-going now.
I've already  mentioned above the misleading  information Admiral gave Ms T about 
the VAT element of the work  estimates.
All of this has caused severe delay in the handling of the claim.  And the net effect  is 
that Ms T and her children have been  living in a home with a damaged floor - which 
needs to be replaced - for more  than a year.
This kind of accident  - and its aftermath - will always be stressful, but I'm satisfied 
Ms T has suffered far more stress  and worry than was necessary because  of the way 
Admiral have handled the claim.
I should also say that the amount of time that's passed since  we received Ms T's 
complaint - with the claim still on-going - has been far longer than it would and should 
have been if Admiral had always responded to our requests for information in a 
complete and timely manner.
So, in my view, Ms T has suffered a high degree of worry and stress - over a longer 
period of time than was necessary - because  of Admiral's poor handling of her claim.
She's also been  significantly  inconvenienced  by Admiral's  poor communications   
which have put the onus  on Ms T to chase  them for answers - and by having a 
damaged floor in her property for an unnecessarily  long period of time.
Taking all of that into account,  I'm intending  to require Admiral to pay Ms T £500 in 
compensation for her trouble and upset. To be clear, I'm not suggesting this should  
be in addition to the £100 already offered by Admiral - I think they should pay Ms T 
£500 in total.
In summary,  on that basis,  my provisional  decision was that Admiral should: pay Ms T for the 
items in her fish tank; offer her a choice of having her flooring replaced by their contractor or 
taking a cash settlement  based on the estimate provided by their contractor (including the 
VAT); and pay her £500 for her trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN22051007the responses to my provisional  decision
Admiral havent provided any comments in response  to my provisional decision. So, Im 
going to assume  they have nothing further to add.
Ms T has responded. Shes  pointed  out that Admiral had already paid her a significant 
amount towards  the cost of replacing  the flooring  (though not all of that cost). 
For reasons I dont need to go into here,  Ms T says it would complicate things to ask her to 
repay that money  to Admiral if she were  to take the option of asking them to replace her 
flooring at this stage.
She wants me to instruct Admiral to pay her a cash settlement  at the price  shed  obtained 
as an estimate from her own supplier.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision, in light of 
Ms Ts response  to it.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.  I know this will be disappointing for Ms T, but 
Im not going  to instruct Admiral to cash settle  her claim based on the estimate provided by 
Ms Ts supplier.
As I tried to point out in my provisional decision, wed usually ask a business  to settle a claim 
at the rate the customer would have  to pay for repairs / replacement  if the business  insisted 
on a cash settlement. Even then, we wouldnt necessarily expect a business to accept a 
single (arguably expensive) quote.
Where the cash settlement is the customers choice, its usually fair to ask the business  to 
pay what it would cost them (the business) to bring  about the repair  / replacement.
So, Im going  to leave Ms Ts options open. She can accept the cash  settlement based  on 
Admirals contractors quote (including  VAT). Or, she can ask Admiral to carry out the repairs.
If she takes the latter option, then the sum already paid by Admiral in cash settlement for the 
flooring would need to be repaid.  
However, Id expect Admiral to agree  to offset some  of this against the other payments Im 
asking them to make  to Ms T (which will come to more than £1400),  so that this doesnt 
become an obstacle  to Ms T taking  the option  of asking Admiral to repair  / replace the 
flooring.
And I should make it absolutely clear that if Ms T asks for a cash  settlement, Im expecting 
Admiral to ask their contractor to provide further  details in their estimate to enable  Ms T to be 
assured that they are costing  out a true like-for-like replacement. 
Ref: DRN22051008my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  must:
pay Ms T for the damaged items  in her fish tank - at the prices set out in her original 
claim;
offer Ms T a choice of having her flooring replaced by their contractor or taking a 
cash settlement based on the estimate provided by their contractor (including the 
VAT payable); and 
pay Ms T £500  for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205100