K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that Arrow  Global Limited  (Arrow) refused to extend the period of time 
for which a discounted  shortfall settlement would be accepted in relation to her secured loan. 
Mrs K says that she marketed her property at a reduced price  in anticipation of the 
discounted settlement.  She would like Arrow  to reimburse her losses  which  she estimates  to 
be around £4,500-£5,000.
The complaint has been conducted on Mrs Ks behalf by a family member, Ms B, but for 
ease of reference I will refer to Mrs K throughout.
background
In 1999 Mrs K took out a secured loan which,  after several changes of ownership was, at the 
time of the events  complained of, owned  by Arrow. The loan was originally in the joint names 
of Mrs K and her husband. I am very sorry to note that he passed away in 2006. The loan 
had been taken out as a second charge loan,  but I am told the first charge was paid off in 
about 2012.
There have been  arrears on the account  throughout the term, resulting in a suspended 
possession order. 
In March 2018 Arrow offered Mrs K a discount  of 20% if the loan was paid off by 30 April 
2018. The property  was put on the market for sale in May 2018. An offer was made, but 
because the title was unregistered,  it took some  time for the deeds to be traced. This led to 
delay in progressing  the sale. 
As a result, Mrs K asked  for the discount period to be extended. Arrow extended the 
discount period  several times. The last deadline expired on 31 August 2018.
On 20 August 2018 Mrs K asked for a further extension. By the time Arrow responded, the 
deadline had passed. Although the 20% discount had expired, Arrow offered a 10% discount 
to the end of November  2018. The property was eventually sold on 16 January 2019,  without 
a discount on the settlement figure for the secured loan.
Mrs K complained. She said that the delay in proceeding with the sale was because  Arrow 
couldnt find the deeds. Mrs K also said that the property was marketed at a reduced price  
because of the discount. As a result  of Arrow withdrawing this, she has lost out by about  
£4,500-£5,000. 
Arrow didnt  uphold the complaint. It acknowledged  there had been a delay in replying to 
Mrs Ks letter of 20 August 2018.  Arrow  paid compensation  of £25 for this. Arrow  also said 
that the original  offer of discount was an error, but Arrow decided to extend  it
Dissatisfied with Arrows response,  Mrs K brought her complaint to us. An investigator 
looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs K asked  for an ombudsman  
to review the complaint. She said that Arrow had extended the deadline over several 
months, even up to 2 January 2019. So it was distressing when it wasnt  extended  to cover 
completion of the sale on 16 January 2019.
my findings
Ref: DRN23894522Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have some 
disappointing news for Mrs K; Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
The decision  on whether  or not to offer a discount  on the amount required to repay the loan 
is a matter for Arrows commercial judgment. It doesnt have to offer this, and I can see that 
the offer was extended several times.
There was a problem  locating the title deeds for the property,  which   unusually   was not 
registered with the Land Registry. Arrow was originally the second charge  holder and so 
would not have held any title deeds  for an unregistered property. So although I acknowledge 
that issues with the deeds  caused delay, this wasnt Arrows  fault.  
Arrow issued  the initial discount letter in March 2018, with an expiry of 30 April 2018.  I note 
from an online property portal that the property wasnt listed  for sale until May 2018. 
Although the letter  offering the discount was issued  in error, Im satisfied  Arrow  acted fairly in 
agreeing to honour this and by extending  it several  times.
Im also not persuaded that the property was marketed at a reduced  price purely because of 
the discount. It was marketed for £60,000 and sold for £53,800. The estate agents listing 
shows the property  to have been  in need  of modernisation and redecoration. 
Other similar properties in the same road sold for £55,000 (October 2018) and £57,500 
(May 2019).  Both properties were, according  to the estate  agents listings  available online, 
modernised and in good decorative order. Given this, Im not persuaded that a sale price of 
£53,800 for this property  was unrealistic or reflected anything other than true market  value.
I appreciate it was disappointing  for Mrs K that she couldnt complete on her sale before the 
expiry of the discount  period. But Arrow wasnt under any obligation  to keep this offer open 
indefinitely. In the circumstances, I dont think Arrow has done  anything wrong in 
withdrawing the offer.
I see that Arrow acknowledged  in its final response letter  that it should have replied more  
quickly to the letter  requesting an extension  to the discount sent on 20 August 2018. Arrow 
has paid compensation of £25 for this delay. I think this is fair in all the circumstances and I 
dont require Arrow to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389452