K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited (SDFC) treated him unfairly 
during an ongoing period of financial difficulties.
background
Mr P has two catalogue accounts  with SDFC. In October 2018 he was made redundant and 
contacted SDFC  to ask it to set up payment plans on his accounts.  Mr P is unhappy that 
SDFC has not agreed long-term payment  arrangements and is unhappy with the level of 
service he received from its advisors.
SDFC said it could not agree  payment  arrangements on either of Mr Ps accounts  because 
he didnt meet its criteria.  SDFC  agreed  that some  of its advisors could have  provided  a 
better service to Mr P, it offered  to pay £30 compensation to reflect this. 
Mr P remained unhappy;  he brought his complaint to our service. SDFC increased its offer of 
compensation for the level of service  to £55. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint. He didnt  think SDFC made a mistake in not agreeing payment arrangements on 
Mr Ps accounts. He thought SDFCs offer of £55 compensation was fair and didnt 
recommend SDFC do anything else. 
Mr P disagreed; the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.  
SDFC offered to refund Mr P £258.46 interest applied to his interest-bearing account ending  
207. I let both parties know  that I thought SDFC should have done more to assist Mr P. I 
said its approach had caused  him stress and frustration. I recommended  SDFC pay Mr P 
£450 compensation for this and to also reflect the customer  service  issues, hed 
experienced. I agreed it was fair for SDFC to refund Mr P interest paid from 4 October 2018, 
when he told it he was in financial difficulties and said 8% simple interest should be added to 
this. I also said SDFC should  amend Mr Ps credit file to show  hed been in payment 
arrangements from December 2018. And asked SDFC  to assess  Mr Ps current situation 
and set up affordable  payment arrangements on his accounts.  
Mr P agreed with what I said. SDFC did not, it said it had acted responsibly by not setting up 
unaffordable payment arrangements and referred  Mr P to a debt charity who could set up a 
debt solution.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I partly  uphold the 
complaint.
different advice given  about setting up temporary payment plans
Mr P is unhappy that he received different information from SDFCs advisors about whether 
he could be put on temporary payment plans. When Mr P called SDFC on 4 October 2018 to 
let it know he had been made  redundant; he was told it could set up two-month temporary 
payment plans for him, when his next payment was due. When  Mr P called back on 12 
October 2018, he was told he did not qualify for temporary plans because he did not have 
Ref: DRN25498592any definite change  due in his circumstances  within  the next two months, like accepting a job 
offer. Mr P was referred to a debt charity to arrange a debt solution.
Later the same day Mr P called back and spoke to another advisor, she agreed  to put Mr P 
on temporary plans of £25 on one account and £10 on the other for two months, on the basis 
he was expecting his redundancy  payment.  
SDFC said its first advisor failed to explain to Mr P that temporary plans could only be set 
up, if there  was a definite change in his circumstances due in the next two months.  It said 
the third advisor  who set up the temporary  plans made a mistake as Mr P didnt meet the 
criteria for temporary plans.
Having looked  at SDFCs criteria for a temporary plan, I can see it requires a significant 
change to the customers income  to be set up. Given Mr P had indicated he wanted to 
protect his redundancy payment to pay his priority bills and he didnt advise of any significant 
change to his circumstances, I dont think he was eligible  for the temporary plans. 
Mr P was given conflicting information  about whether temporary plans could  be set up. Ive 
taken into account  that SDFCs error led to temporary plans being set up, which Mr P was 
not eligible  for. But having listened to the relevant calls,  I think the conflicting information 
caused Mr P a lot of confusion and frustration at what was already a very difficult time. So, I 
think Mr P should be paid some compensation in respect of this. Which Ive considered  
below.
SDFCs refusal to set up long-term  payment arrangements
Mr P is unhappy that when his temporary  payment plans ended, SDFC refused to set up 
long-term payment  arrangements  on his accounts.  When a customer is in financial difficulty, 
we expect the business to treat them positively and sympathetically. Whilst there  is no set 
action a business needs to take, it should try to understand  the customers financial situation 
and take a flexible approach to try to assist the customer  in repaying their balance. So, Ive 
looked carefully at what happened to see if SDFC did anything wrong.  
Mr P managed to set up long term payment arrangements directly  with all his other creditors. 
When Mr P first contacted  SDFC about losing his job, it advised him to contact  a debt 
charity. The debt charity  advised it could only assist Mr P if he unwound  all his other 
payment arrangements.  Understandably Mr P did not want to do this. In the circumstances 
the debt charity suggested  Mr P make token  monthly payments  of £1 to each of his SDFC 
accounts. Mr P did not want to do this as he was worried about his arrears  building up and 
he could afford to repay more. 
Mr P contacted SDFC on 6 December  2018  to let it know  he was starting  a temporary  job. 
SDFC completed an I & E based  on Mr Ps new income and his wifes.  The outcome showed 
Mr P had more going out than coming  in. SDFC says as a responsible lender it could not 
offer Mr P payment arrangements because his income was in deficit. 
Mr P challenged the outcome of the I & E, as SDFC used national  average figures for some 
outgoings rather than his actual figures. Mr P also said it was unfair for SDFC to complete a 
household income as his wifes  finance is kept separate  from his. I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable for SDFC to use some national average figures  and I dont think it was wrong 
to take Mr Ps wifes  income into account,  given he had indicated she covered some bills.
Ref: DRN25498593Having listened  to the call Im not satisfied SDFC did enough to assist Mr P. As Mr P was 
adamant his income was not in deficit, the advisor did go on to discuss  what  repayments Mr 
P could  afford. The advisor  explained the offers made by Mr P were  too low to meet  SDFCs 
42-month balance  repayment policy. Despite Mr P explaining why a debt solution with the 
debt charity was unsuitable  he was referred back to the debt charity, and I cant see that any 
further options were  explored. 
From the call Im not persuaded that a payment arrangement was not set up due to an 
income deficit, but rather because Mr Ps offers did not meet  SDFCs 42-month  balance 
repayment policy. Ive seen Mr Ps bank  statements  for the relevant period and its clear that 
he could afford to repay the amounts offered at the time. A further I & E was completed in 
February 2019. This time the outcome was he had more income coming in than going out. 
Mr P made offers of repayment,  but again  they were not accepted as they did not meet 
SDFCs 42- month balance repayment  policy. 
Mr P continued to contact  SDFC to make offers of repayment, which  SDFC declined  and 
continued to re-direct him to the debt charity, who confirmed  they could not offer a debt 
solution for a single creditor. His bank statements at the time show  he could afford the 
amounts offered. Mr P for the most part has maintained payments of £5 towards  each of his 
SDFC accounts.  
Whilst SDFC did take steps to understand Mr Ps financial situation and consider whether  he 
could afford  payment arrangements  in line with its 42-month balance repayment policy. I 
dont think SDFC did enough  to assist Mr P with repaying his accounts. Mr P let SDFC know 
why a debt solution with the debt charity  was unsuitable, but it continued to refer him back  to 
the debt charity.  Even  though Mr Ps repayment  offers did not meet SDFCs 42-month 
repayment policy, I think it would  have been  fair for SDFC to take a more  flexible  approach 
and discuss payment arrangements with Mr P. There  was no obligation  for Mr P to use the 
debt charity and I think SDFCs approach has caused Mr P stress and frustration and Ive 
considered how SDFC should put this right below.  
SDFC adding interest  whilst  Mr P was in financial difficulties 
SDFC explained that only one of Mr Ps accounts  (the one ending 207) is interest bearing. 
And it advised it froze all charges  and stopped  applying interest  on his account  when  he 
complained in October 2018. SDFC recently  offered to refund £258.46 interest added to Mr 
Ps account after he let it know  he was in financial difficulties.  I think this is fair in the, but 
also think it should add 8% simple interest  per year to any interest payments Mr P has 
made, as outlined below. 
contact from SDFC  
Mr P is unhappy SDFC contacted him whilst his accounts were  on temporary payment plans 
in November 2018. SDFC confirmed it contacted Mr P as he had made  an overpayment on 
one of his accounts, in error. This made  the two-month payment plan show  as expired on its 
system. I can see SDFC re-applied  the temporary payment plan and split Mr Ps payment 
over both accounts as Mr P had intended.  Mr P also complained  about the delay in SDFC  
refunding an overpayment made in December 2018, I can see SDFC refunded  the 
overpayment on the same day. So, I dont think SDFC  did anything  wrong,  in respect  of this 
part of Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN25498594Mr P complains SDFC continued to contact  him when his account was on hold and more 
recently has been in touch with him again,  despite it agreeing  not to whilst this service 
looked into his complaint.  I think this unnecessary contact  has caused Mr P further 
frustration and I think SDFC  should  pay him some compensation to reflect  this. 
putting things  right
Having listened  to the call recordings,  I agree  with SDFC that there were occasions when Mr 
P did not receive  the level of customer services,  he should have expected. SDFC has 
offered to pay £55 compensation to reflect this. In addition, Ive also considered  that Mr P 
was caused frustration by getting conflicting  information from SDFC advisors  about  
temporary payment  plans  and by receiving unnecessary  calls whilst his account should  have  
been on hold.  
Mr P contacted SDFC on several  occasions to try to set up payment arrangements, even 
whilst the complaint has been with this service, but he was told to await  the outcome of his 
complaint. Having a complaint with this service does not prevent a business from setting up 
payment arrangements.  And Mr P has told us how worrying and stressful  it has been, not 
having the peace of mind of having  payment arrangements in place, and this has been  
ongoing since December  2018. Overall, I think SDFC should  pay Mr P £450 compensation 
for this and to reflect the customer service issues highlighted above.
Had SDFC set up payment arrangements for Mr P in December 2018,  this would have been 
reflected on his credit file, instead of the recorded  arrears markers. So, I think  SDFC should 
amend Mr Ps credit file to show he has been in payment arrangements  on both accounts 
since the temporary plans  expired in December  2018. 
Mr P says that not having payment arrangements in place on his accounts has significantly 
impacted his credit score. And I understand why he is concerned  about  this. However, Mr P 
has only provided his credit score and an extract from an SDFC entry  on his credit  file. 
Without a full copy of Mr Ps credit file, Im unable to say SDFCs actions are solely 
responsible for the reduction in Mr Ps credit score. There are several  factors that can impact 
an individuals credit score, including being  in payment arrangements with other creditors.  In 
addition, I have not seen anything to suggest SDFCs entries have caused Mr P any direct 
financial loss. So, I dont  think  SDFC should  pay Mr P any compensation in respect  of the 
impact on his credit score.  
Going forward I think SDFC should review Mr Ps financial situation  and work with him to put 
in place affordable  payment arrangements on his accounts. It is not our role to impose 
payment arrangements,  this needs  to be agreed  by both parties,  but the payment 
arrangements should  be time limited to allow Mr P a reasonable time to try to repay  the 
balances on his accounts.
In addition, I think it is fair for SDFC to remove all interest added  to the account ending  207, 
from 4 October 2018, when Mr P let it know he was in financial difficulties. It should also 
refund any interest  Mr P has paid since this date, adding  8% simple a year on any interest 
refunds from the date it was paid until the date of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold the complaint and direct Shop Direct Finance Company  
Limited to;
Ref: DRN25498595assess Mr Ps financial  situation  and work with him to set up a payment arrangement 
on both accounts
amend Mr Ps credit file to reflect he has been in payment arrangements  on both 
accounts, since the temporary payment  plans  ended in December 2018
remove all interest added  to Mr Ps account ending  207 from 4 October 2018 and 
refund Mr P any interest he has paid from this date
pay Mr P interest of 8% simple a year on the interest payment refunds from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
pay Mr P £450 total compensation  for the stress  and frustration caused by its 
approach to his financial  difficulties and to reflect the customer service  issues 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires SDFC to take off tax from this interest. SDFC must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2549859