K822xcomplaint
Mr E has complained about Tesco underwriting Limiteds decision to cancel his car
insurance policy as if it didnt exist.
background
In November 2017 Mr E bought a car insurance policy with Tesco.  He said he lived in a city
which Ill call B.
In January 2018 Mr E made a claim to Tesco. It settled his claim as a total loss. Mr E insured
a replacement car with Tesco.
Mr E made a second  claim under his policy as he was involved in another incident in March
2018. In April 2018 Tesco discovered during a call with Mr E that he had registered his
replacement car in January 2018  at an address  in city L. Mr E said he told Tesco a couple
of months ago that he was working  and living in L. Tesco asked Mr E if he could provide
documents to show he lived at the address in L. Mr E told Tesco  he couldnt provide utility
documents for either address.
Tesco couldnt find a call from Mr E where  he told it he was working in L. It discovered that
Mr E had tried to obtain quotes online between January  and April 2018  for address L. But no
quote was provided  as Tesco said it wouldnt have  provided cover  for this address.
And as Mr E said he couldnt provide  proof of living at either address, Tesco decided to
cancel Mr Es policy as if it didnt exist from the date he said he put address L on the V5
registration document for his replacement  car. It said it wouldnt refund any premium to him.
Mr E asked us to look at his complaint.  He wanted  Tesco to deal with his claim as his
replacement car was a total loss. He said he suffered personal injury  in the March 2018
incident. He wanted Tesco to compensate him for his losses and for its decision.
Our investigator thought that Tescos  decision at the time was reasonable. But Mr E later
explained that he was living at address B and address L as he was working three days a
week in L. His boss had asked him to consider relocating to L and this was why he had
looked for quotes online.
Because Mr E then provided utility  bills for address B, she thought  Tesco should reconsider
his claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Tesco didnt  agree. I issued a provisional decision on 4 February 2019. I thought Tesco  had 
acted reasonably  so I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Neither Tesco nor Mr E has replied to my provisional decision. As the deadline to provide 
further comments has passed, the case has been passed back to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
it. 
Ref: DRN22028042As explained in my provisional decision,  I think Tescos  decision to cancel Mr Es policy  as if 
it didnt exist was reasonable.  Ill explain why.
When an insurer decides to cancel a policy as if it didnt exist it can do this if the customer
misrepresented the facts  when they bought the policy. The insurer can also decide  whether
the customer did this carelessly or deliberately. We look at the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (known as The Act) to see if an insurer  has
acted in a fair and reasonable  way.
The Act says that the insurer should  ask a clear question. The consumer has a duty to
answer the question  correctly, honestly  and to the best of their knowledge. If a consumer
was asked a clear question which they didnt answer  correctly,  the next step is to decide
whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate.
If the misrepresentation was careless, and if the insurer would have still provided cover
(even if on different  terms), wed expect the insurer  to apply those terms and to allow the
policy to continue and meet  any claim as it would under the policy.
But if the misrepresentation  is deliberate  even if the insurer would have provided a policy
on different terms  it can decide  to cancel the policy as if it didnt  exist,  retain the premium
under the policy   and decide not to meet any claim made under the policy.
The same approach applies where an insurer made it clear that a significant  change during
the period the policy is in place should  be disclosed  but the customer fails to disclose it.
Tescos policy  highlights  that there are changes Mr E must tell it about. It says;
Please remember that if you do not tell the administrator about any changes this
could result in your contract  of insurance being  voided (as if the policy  never existed),
all claims under your policy being  refused and all premiums that you have paid being
retained. Some examples of the changes you must tell the administrator about  are as
follows:
You change  your address or the address where you keep  the car.
Tesco has provided  key call recordings of its conversations with Mr E. In a conversation  in
April 2018, while it was dealing with Mr Es second claim, Tesco asked Mr E for the address
on the V5 registration form. Mr E said it was address  L. Tesco said this was different to the
address it held.
Mr E told Tesco that he had told it a couple of months before that he was working in L and 
had moved there. In a subsequent call, Tesco said it had referred the matter to its 
underwriters.
It was unable to locate a previous call from Mr E where he told it of his change in
circumstances. But it had found multiple  online quote requests between January 2018 and
April 2018: 17 for the L address and 3 for the B address. Its provided us with a screenshot
of this information.
Tesco hadnt  produced any quotes online because it didnt provide cover for the L address.
So Tesco said its decision  was to cancel Mr Es policy as if it didnt exist and it would do this
from 31 January 2018. This is the date Mr E said he registered his replacement  car at
address L. It also explained  that Tesco wouldnt meet his total loss claim for his car. 
Ref: DRN22028043And it would keep the premium hed paid for insurance and use it toward the costs of any 
third party claim.
Tesco told Mr E it wouldnt provide insurance for him in the future.
In May 2018  Mr E provided utility  bills for address B to Tesco.  He wanted it to reconsider its
decision and reinstate his policy. However,  I think Tesco acted reasonably.  Mr E insisted he
had no evidence he lived at either  address when he told it the address on the V5 registration
document was address L. And he said hed told Tesco he lived at address L. And because
Mr E used address  L to register his car in January 2018, I think this was the main  address
where he was living  and working.  So I think he should have  told Tesco about his change  of
address. The incident  happened in L. And Mr E tried to obtain quotes  to insure his
replacement car between January and April 2018  on Tescos website using address L but
could see no quote was available. So he also obtained quotes  for his replacement  car under
address B and his policy remained in place under address B.
So although  Mr E provided utility bills for address B in May 2018, I think  the information
shows that his main address where Mr E kept his car was in L since January  2018. I think  he
should have told Tesco this at the time.  Tesco highlighted that this was a significant change
which Mr E needed to tell it about. We also consider a change of address to be a significant
change in circumstances and therefore something that needs to be declared to the insurer.
There isnt any evidence  that he did.
When Tesco  told Mr E about  its decision, he said his main  address was B. Tesco has shown
from the online quotes screenshot that it wouldnt  have provided cover  for address L. On
balance, I think the online quotes show Mr E intended to change  his main  address to L. But
because a quote wasnt provided, I think its more  likely than not, that he didnt tell Tesco  in
order to remain insured under address B. But, on balance, I think  L was the main  address
where his car was kept. I think this is why he registered his car at address L.
Tesco has raised  a separate  concern as its received a provisional  licence from Mr E. Mr E
told Tesco  he had a full European licence when he bought his policy. Tesco  said it wouldnt
provide insurance  cover  to Mr E if his licence is a provisional one.
However, as I think Tescos decision to cancel  Mr Es policy as if it didnt exist was
reasonable, I dont  think this makes a difference to the outcome.
Where a claim has been made under a cancelled policy  in this case known as voidance  
Tesco as the last insurer has an obligation  under the Road Traffic Act to deal with any third
party claim it receives. Tesco hasnt  explained  this to Mr E. I think it should  have. Because  of
the cancellation, Tesco is entitled  to recover any third party claim costs it pays  from Mr E.
From what  Ive seen, I think Tescos decision to cancel Mr Es policy  as if it didnt exist for
deliberate misrepresentation is fair and reasonable. This means I dont  think it should meet
Mr Es claim. Its entitled to keep the premium. But in any event as it already met a total loss
claim Mr E made in January 2018, Mr E always owed the full years premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN22028044Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202804