K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were  mis-sold  a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a loan in 1995 by Nationwide Building Society. 
Mr and Mrs B also complained about  two other  loans they had, taken out in 1998  and 1999.  
To be clear, Im addressing only their 1995  loan in this decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in November 2018,  setting  out why I 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  sent in any new information 
or arguments. So theres no reason  for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. And dont require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22762062summary  provisional  decision
Ive considered all the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering departing substantially the view of our adjudicator. Im not intending to uphold the 
complaint.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 21 December  2018,  but unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision  is likely  to be along the following lines. So that the 
consumers cant be identified, Ill call them Mr and Mrs B.
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy with a 
loan in 1995  by Nationwide Building  Society. 
I note Mr and Mrs B also complained about  two other loans they had, taken  out in 1998 and 1999.  To 
be clear, Im addressing only their 1995 loan in this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and said they thought it should  be upheld.  
Nationwide disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about MPPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this case.
Having done this, Im not intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
These events  took place  a considerable time ago and neither Nationwide  nor Mr and Mrs B could 
send us any original documentation from the sale. After 23 years,  I dont consider this particularly 
unreasonable. 
However, it means that weve got very little information to go on and so Ive used my experience of 
these types of sale to help me think what is more likely to have  happened. Weve also spoken to 
Nationwide about its sale processes from that time and so have an understanding of the 
documentation that was normally used.
Mr and Mrs Bs central point of complaint is that they didnt  ever agree  to PPI with their loan and didnt 
even know it had been  added. 
In the absence  of the original loan agreement, Nationwide sent us an example of the type of loan 
agreement form that was used  at the time. Its dated 1995 and Ive looked and thought carefully about  
it. The form corresponds  with many others Ive seen.
Nationwide cant tell us a great deal about Mr and Mrs Bs PPI sale and cant even be sure if the loan 
they took out was secured  or unsecured.  But the loan agreement example sets out all the costs Mr 
and Mrs B would be paying for their loan and PPI. It included the interest that would be chargeable 
and the PPI was shown in what I would describe as a fairly prominent position. 
The form described  the PPI as Optional Credit  Insurance and shows both the monthly  cost and the 
total amount (for the loan and PPI) Mr and Mrs B would be expected  to pay. So, because of the way 
the PPI was most likely described for them,  I think Mr and Mrs B would  have been able see it was 
optional cover and not something they needed to buy. 
Ref: DRN22762063I therefore  think its likely they consented to having the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI costs - thought to be around £21 per month - were explained  well 
enough to Mr and Mrs B and that they were also quite expensive.
Im afraid I dont agree with this because theres just not enough information from the sale for us to 
say that. Because  this sale was so long ago for example,  its not even very clear  who or what  was 
insured, and so I cant say the costs  were  substantially different from similar types of PPI cover  that 
was widely available at that time.  I also dont  think £21 per month would  have been unaffordable for 
them.
Also, from what  I know  of Nationwides procedures and from what it told us, I think its likely Mr and 
Mrs B would have been given the policy document which  explained the main features of the cover. 
But even if Nationwide didnt do everything right,  I dont  have  evidence to say it would have made  any 
difference to whether or not Mr and Mrs B would  have  still bought the PPI policy.
Thats because I think Mr and Mrs B were both eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The PPI would  have been available to pay 
their loan repayments  in the event of the insured person losing their job or becoming too ill to work. 
Life cover  was also included.
Mr and Mrs B also said they didnt need the PPI because they had good jobs with some sickness 
protection already  included.  Ive thought carefully  about this but Im afraid  this doesnt necessarily 
mean the policy wasnt of use. My experience of Nationwide PPI sales like this is that they werent 
advised sales. Nationwides responsibility  was therefore limited to providing clear enough  information  
for Mr and Mrs B to decide themselves what they wanted to do. And although  I agree  they had good 
jobs, any PPI pay-out would have been for up to 12 months and in addition to any other means  they 
had at the time.
So although I cant say why they bought  the policy, I can see how it could  have been  of use.
In short, I dont think  theres  enough evidence  which  shows Mr and Mrs B didnt know they had PPI. In 
fact, I think  the opposite is more likely. I think the agreement  would have shown them they had PPI 
and also an option about having it. I also think the policy  was of use to them. So Im afraid Im not 
intending to uphold their complaint. 
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  or direct  Nationwide Building  Society to pay any 
compensation. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 21 
December 2018 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN2276206