K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Northern  Bank Limited (Northern Bank).
background
Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI policy when they took out two home loans in 2002. It looks  as 
though the two loans  were elements of the same mortgage. Northern Bank  said that the PPI 
sale took place  in a meeting and that it advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy.  Mr and 
Mrs B said they felt they had to take the PPI in order to get the mortgage.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr B only at a monthly 
cost of £16.44.  The monthly  benefit was £300.  If Mr B had made a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. This was because Mr B worked for 
a family  business and was entitled  to very good sick pay - so our adjudicator thought  there 
was no particular need for the policy in this case. Northern Bank disagreed,  and asked that it 
be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Northern Bank sent in copies of its computer records of Mr and Mrs Bs home loan and 
current accounts, along with sample copies of mortgage and PPI application forms and PPI 
quotations. It could  not provide copies of Mr and Bs application forms from the point of sale.
Mr and Mrs B complained that they felt they had no choice but to take the PPI if they wanted  
to get the mortgage approved. The sale took place in a meeting, so I cant know how the PPI 
was explained.  However, Northern Bank told us - and Mr and Mrs B agree - that they were 
advised to take out the cover. So its possible that the adviser told Mr and Mrs B that it was a 
good idea for them  to have the policy, rather than that they must have it. 
Overall, I dont  think I can say that it is most likely that Mr and Mrs B were told they had to 
take out the policy, which is what I must be able to do before I can uphold their complaint on 
this point. I simply dont have enough evidence  that this is what happened.
However, as Northern Bank advised Mr and Mrs B to take the PPI, it shouldve  made sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr B (as the person insured). I dont think it was.
Ref: DRN29861672As Ive said,  I cant know what was discussed at the meeting,  so I cant say how the adviser 
explained the PPI - including the things not covered (although I have no evidence to suggest  
that Mr B wouldve been affected by any of these). But Mr B told us he was employed by a 
family firm (and had been for many  years) and that he would have  been  entitled to 12 
months sick pay from his employer, with the scope for this to be extended up to 24 months. 
He sent in a letter from the family  business  confirming  this. In these circumstances I dont 
think Mr and Mrs B would have considered Mr B to be at a particular risk of redundancy, and 
neither do I think they would have found it difficult to meet the mortgage repayments  if Mr B 
was off sick  his sick pay could have been paid for as long as the policy would have done in 
the event of a claim (and potentially for longer). 
I cant see from the sample application  forms that Mr B is likely to have been asked about  his 
sick pay in 2002.  Northern Bank argued that Mr and Mrs B were given the policy information,  so 
could have queried the cover or cancelled  it if unsuitable. But Northern Bank advised Mr and 
Mrs B to take the PPI - so the onus was on the adviser to take reasonable steps to make  sure 
the policy was suitable. From  the evidence I have  Im not satisfied that this was the case. 
Northern Bank also argued  that Mr and Mrs Bs financial  commitments  would have made  it 
beneficial for them  to have had the cover. I dont agree with this argument  in this case   Mr 
and Mrs Bs financial commitments would no doubt have  been determined by their normal  
income, and if this effectively continued  during a period of illness  on Mr Bs part, their 
circumstances would  have been unaffected. 
Overall, I dont  think that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, for the reasons Ive 
explained above. So I dont think they wouldve  taken out the policy if they had been  properly  
advised. This means they are worse off as a result of what  Northern Bank  did wrong, so it 
should put things right.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  
out the PPI. I understand the policy has been cancelled already, so Northern Bank  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Northern Bank can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also take off the amount it 
has paid Mr and Mrs B in relation to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern Bank 
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN29861673my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Northern Bank Limited should pay them the compensation  Ive described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2986167