K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC after he moved  
abroad.  He would like to be compensated for lost interest and lost investment opportunities.
background 
Mr Y left the UK in 2011 and says that since then, he has had trouble in accessing  his Lloyds 
account. He says Lloyds has not dealt with his queries adequately and so he has lost out on` 
access to his funds,  interest and potential investments.
When Mr Y came  to this service, Lloyds had not provided him with a written  final response.   
That was sent to Mr Y in December 2018.   In that final response,  Lloyds accepted it could 
have done more in dealing with Mr Ys complaint. It offered him £300 for the poor service 
received.  It  subsequently offered a further  £75  so £375 in total.
And when  our adjudicator looked into matters  for Mr Y, she agreed that Lloyds could have 
done more.  However,  access to Mr Ys account  had been restored and she thought  that the 
offer of £375 was a fair and reasonable one.
Our adjudicator explained to My Y that the rules  which govern this service state that we 
cannot look into matters  complained about  which occurred more than six years  ago. She 
also explained that there was no evidence of lost investments and that this figure could  not 
be quantified.
But Mr Y was not happy with her response  and asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be asking Lloyds to do anymore.
My reasons  are very much  the same as the adjudicator and Im not sure there is much more  
that I could  helpfully  add to a very detailed explanation she has given of Mr Ys complaint.
I know Mr Y does  not dispute the chronology of events as provided in the adjudicators 
assessment.  What he says in response is that there  must  be some way of calculating  lost 
interest and investments.
With regards the interest, I understand Mr Ys account accrued the relevant interest whilst he 
was unable to access it.  Although  the account was marked as dormant for some time, I 
think that was a reasonable response from Lloyds in view of the situation.
With regards the investment opportunities, I can only re-iterate  what the adjudicator  has said 
in her response.  There is no evidence of lost investment  and that is something Mr Y needed 
to have shown  as he brings  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer of £375 from Lloyds Bank PLC is a fair and reasonable 
offer in settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25410782Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2541078