K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr D bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
Mr D ticked a box on his credit  card application to indicate he wanted PPI. So I think Lloyds  
made Mr D aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mr D, and it seems to have  been  right for him based  on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. He only had a few months of sick pay 
through his work and a small amount  of savings. The PPI wouldve  made  payments to 
his credit  card for up to 12 months if he made a claim,  which wouldve left his sick pay 
and savings  available for other things. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr D doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover   and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been  useful  to him. So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments,  including what hes said about  being made to feel that 
he was unlikely to get the credit card without  the PPI. But these points dont  change  my 
conclusion. I note that Mr D has previously said that he doesnt specifically remember the sale 
of this PPI policy   and his allegation about  this appears to be based on how he thinks  PPI was 
generally sold. So I dont  think  it would be fair to uphold the complaint solely  based  on what  he 
says about events that took place over 20 years ago. Mr D also says his parents wouldve 
helped out, but that wouldnt be a guaranteed way of keeping up with his repayments.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2287978