K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking a credit card. He applied for the 
credit card and PPI policy at a meeting in a branch.
The credit card application form Mr L signed  says he was employed at the time by a retailer 
and had been there for a little over two years. In what he told us, Mr L recalled a different 
employment. But I think his application  form is more likely to reflect the position at the time. 
Mr L hasnt been  able to tell us what sick pay or redundancy benefits  he mightve received 
from the retailer. But from his length  of service  I think  its likely he was entitled to statutory 
pay for sickness and redundancy. From what Mr L has told us, he was financially stretched 
and didnt have  any other means  with which to pay his credit card if he couldnt work.
Mr L told us he had an operation around  20 years before the sale. He hasnt told us of any 
other, or more recent, health issues.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and also had life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful unemployment  or disability 
claim, it offered to repay 5% of Mr Ls credit card balance each month for 11 months and 
clear his outstanding  balance  if the claim lasted 12 months. The life cover would, subject to 
its terms, clear  the account  balance  on death.  Lloyds has told us the policy  at the time cost 
no more than 79p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium  would  
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account closed in 2006. 
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr L wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ls representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr L about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN28316132The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN28316133The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ls complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr L has said he had no interest  in PPI and 
he says it was just included on his card as part of the package. But his card application form 
Ref: DRN28316134listed the PPI under  the heading Optional  features , with boxes  to tick to say either  Yes  or 
No to the PPI. By the No box it says: If you do not wish to protect  your payments, tick No. 
But on Mr Ls form, which he signed,  the Yes box is ticked. I think  he wouldve known No 
could be ticked instead if he didnt want the cover. Taking everything into account, I think  its 
more likely Mr L knew the policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue  pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr L hasnt said Lloyds didnt give advice. 
Taking this into account, Im persuaded Lloyds provided advice. This means Lloyds  had to 
advise Mr L with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate 
or suitable given  his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr L. Theres no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some 
limited information about  Mr Ls financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr L would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr L had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr L given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr L, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mr Ls ability  to continue  to meet his 
credit card repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the statutory  sickness and redundancy pay 
to which  I think he was entitled.
-Although Mr L says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen  nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr L. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. As regards  the health  issue hed been treated for around 20 years earlier,  there  
isnt anything - like any indication of ongoing problems in the years that followed - to 
suggest this ought  to have been  considered of significance at the time of the sale in the 
light of the policy  health exclusion for issues Mr L knew  about or had been treated for in 
the 12 months before the policy start. And I havent  seen anything  to suggest Mr L 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant policy  exclusions. There were also 
no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems.
Ref: DRN28316135-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover  given Mr Ls circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr L sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr L was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr L would  have been  told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr L would have taken the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. Also the application  form he signed said the PPI was cover so 
you can continue to meet  your minimum credit card payments even if you cant  work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment  which wouldve given Mr L some idea of what  the 
policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mr L wouldve realised  the policy wasnt free and its likely  he wouldve had 
some understanding of how much the policy cost before agreeing  to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr L agreed 
to take the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr L might 
have been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on the things he 
was told, rather  than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr L, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr L. Im not persuaded  that Lloyds gave Mr L all the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor value   and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
Ref: DRN28316136-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr L about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr L would have 
still taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it shouldve done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr L would  have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mr L says he would not have taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  I have considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr L had some  interest in taking out payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised  him there was a suitable product  he could 
buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event he was unable to work because 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made 
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ls circumstances  at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr L ought reasonably  to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But I 
accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr L didnt know 
Ref: DRN28316137some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
the policy on and found acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded illness or injury occurring within  12 months of the policy  start if related 
to any health issue Mr L knew or shouldve known about at the start or for which  hed seen 
or arranged to see a medical practitioner  in the 12 months  before the start;
The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr L wasnt a 
permanent employee;  and
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim Mr L be unable to do his 
own job or any work which in the insurers view he was or might  reasonably  become 
qualified for in view of his education, training and ability.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  mightve  dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Theres nothing to suggest Mr Ls health issue 20 years  
or so earlier had caused him problems in the years that followed. Im not persuaded he had 
reason at the time of the sale to think this might change in future. With all this and what Ive 
said above in mind, I dont  think better information about the policy  health  exclusions would 
have put Mr L off the PPI. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions.  So I think  Mr L still had some  good reasons 
to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr L 
wouldve expected  to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability  if he were  not only unable to do his own 
job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view he was or might  reasonably  
become qualified for in view of his education,  training and ability, it might  have  played  into 
his thinking about what to do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought   
although given  Mr Ls circumstances,  on balance, I think he would still have been  interested 
in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr L would  still have  taken  the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  he 
thought he was getting and I think the policy couldve  provided  a useful benefit in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding his statutory  employment benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN28316138Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr L wouldnt  have taken  the policy, Im satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that he would still have  taken the PPI had 
he been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was buying. So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude  
Lloyds should  pay him compensation, as that would put him in a better  position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr L thinks  Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN28316139circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2831613