K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains British Gas Insurance Limited didnt complete a test that formed  part of his 
annual boiler service. He says if the test had been  completed, an issue  would have been 
identified and saved  him an expense.
background
Mr W is entitled to an annual boiler  service under his British  Gas insurance policy protecting 
his boiler and central heating. A letter inviting Mr W to book  his annual service  confirms that, 
amongst other things,  the gas pressure will be tested. However, Mr W says hes since  been  
told by British Gas engineers that they dont test gas pressure, they test flow rates.
Mr W says during some works he was having  done  at his home, it was discovered  that there 
was a considerable drop in pressure  between his meter and gas fire. He says the issue was 
due to the diameter of the pipe between the meter and the fire, and new pipework  had to be 
fitted at his expense. Mr W has provided an email from his engineer which  confirms  the 
issue and the remedial works.
Mr W says the issue should have been  picked  up during two British  Gas annual services.  He 
says if the gas pressure had been  properly tested by British Gas,  he would have known 
there was a problem.
Mr W complained  to British Gas, and because  he remained unhappy with its response,  he 
referred his complaint to this service.  British Gas understood that Mr W believed a gas 
soundness test should have been  completed as part of his annual  service, but it was 
satisfied that the appropriate pressure testing had been completed.  
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but based on the explanation 
British Gas gave  him, he didnt think it should be upheld.
British Gas told our investigator that it carries out a gas rate and emissions  test during an 
annual service. It says the type of gas valve Mr W has fitted  on his boiler means a burner 
gas pressure test isnt possible, so it gas rated his boiler instead. British  Gas explained 
that, in modern gas boilers, a gas rate test is effectively the same as a gas pressure test; 
noting that modern gas boilers rely on fan pressure, rather than gas pressure.
As such,  British Gas was satisfied that it had carried out the equivalent  test for Mr Ws boiler, 
to the one described in his annual service  invite letter. It also noted  that if he had reported a 
problem with his hot water or heating, it would have investigated, as per the cover under his 
policy. But it said because no problems had been  reported, it had no need to perform the 
working pressure  tests Mr Ws engineer  had performed when repositioning his gas fire.
Based on British Gas explanation, our investigator was persuaded that it had fulfilled its 
obligations. Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27775322I appreciate the information contained  in the invite letter could  be clearer in terms of the tests 
that are completed during an annual service  for modern gas boilers. But I also accept the 
explanation given by British Gas in respect of the equivalent test. I havent  been shown 
anything which contradicts British Gas explanation. 
Mr W says that if the gas pressure had been  properly  tested  by British Gas during his annual 
services, then the issue identified by his own engineer would have been discovered. But Ive 
not seen anything that shows  the appropriate annual  service  tests werent conducted  for his 
boiler or that the issue  should have been  picked  up during an annual  service. Mr W points 
towards an email from his own engineer, but it doesnt mention that British Gas failed  to 
complete a test, or pick up an issue, it ought to reasonably have done.
In any event, Mr W hadnt reported  any related heating  issues  with his gas fire, so in my 
view, I cant reasonably decide British  Gas ought to have investigated and replaced the 
pipework Mr W has referred  to.
Mr W has also outlined  his frustration with how British Gas handled  his complaint, and I do 
understand he feels strongly  his complaint should  be upheld. But although I agree it could 
have been clearer  with the explanation it gave him when responding to his complaint, 
overall, Im not persuaded I can reasonably  uphold his complaint on this basis  alone.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W. But for the reasons explained  above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2777532