K820x#14Complaint
Mr J, on behalf of company T, complains that an international payment he made in 
April 2019 wasnt paid by Santander UK Plc. Mr J says this caused problems for company T 
and he wants compensation.
Background
In April 2019, company  T made an international transfer to one of their suppliers  for around 
€1,800.00. A couple of weeks after the transfer  was made, company T heard  from their 
supplier as they hadnt received the payment. Mr J contacted Santander to find out what  had 
happened.
Santander told Mr J theyd investigate  things for him. After  a few days,  Santander told Mr J 
theyd held the payment for a review. And they confirmed they couldnt process the payment 
because theyd been unable to confirm  it adhered  to their legal and regulatory checks. Mr J 
wasnt happy about this  he said it caused company T serious repercussions, especially 
because Santander  didnt tell him about it.
Santander reimbursed  company  T in full. As the exchange rate had changed, the first 
amount company T received was less than the total  however Santander  recognised this 
and made  a further transfer including the difference and the transfer  fee. So, company T 
didnt lose out.
The investigator thought Santander had acted reasonably. She said they were  entitled to 
review the payment under their legal and regulatory  obligations, and confirmed Santander 
tried to contact Mr J on three occasions.  The investigator also shared the relevant terms and 
conditions which allow Santander  to do what they did. And she thought as company T had 
been reimbursed  in full, Santander didnt need to do anything to put things right.
Mr J remained  unhappy. He said he didnt receive  the calls from Santander because  they 
called from an anonymised number and didnt  leave a voicemail. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr J, 
so Ive explained my reasons further below.
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing business  relationship. That sometimes means they need  to restrict customers  accounts  
 either  in full or partially while they carry out their review. In this case, Santander has said that 
one payment was held to meet these legal requirements. 
Ref: DRN25823112Having looked  at whats happened, Im satisfied Santander was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when it held company Ts payment. So, I cant say theyve done anything  
wrong. The investigator helpfully shared the relevant terms and conditions  of company Ts 
account, so Mr J understands why Santander  were  entitled to do what  they did. Ive also 
considered those terms, and Im satisfied Santander acted in line with them. So, I cant fairly say 
Santander has treated  company T unfairly when they held and reviewed the payment. 
I appreciate Mr J thinks Santander should have  tried harder to contact him about  this issue  
he thinks at the very least they should have  left a voicemail when they couldnt reach him. I 
appreciate Mr Js feelings around  this  and I agree it could have been helpful  for Santander 
to leave a message so Mr J could have called them back. However,  there isnt anything  in 
Santanders processes  which say they must attempt contact  a certain way, or that theyre 
required to leave a message. And its not for me to tell Santander what their processes 
should be. However, Santander did try to call Mr J on three separate  occasions across 
different days,  as well as sending a message to the receiving  bank,  so Im satisfied  at their 
efforts here. Mr J has explained his company blocks calls from anonymised numbers, so he 
didnt receive any of the calls. While  I appreciate  this would have  been  frustrating, I cant 
fairly hold Santander  responsible for company Ts call screening decision. 
Ive looked at the time Santander  took to review  things. I understand it was just over two 
weeks from company T making the payment to receiving the money back.  As the review  was 
in relation to an international  payment, I dont think this is an unreasonable time frame.  I 
appreciate the problems  company T faced with their supplier, but as Ive found  Santander  
were entitled  to carry out the review on the payment, and there werent  any unnecessary 
delays, I cant say theyve  done anything wrong. Im also pleased  to hear company T have 
since found another provider to carry out their international  transactions  going forward, 
although company  Ts Santander account  is still open. 
Ive no doubt Mr J, on behalf of company T, had a frustrating and worrying time throughout 
this situation.  But overall, based on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say Santander have  
acted unreasonably. So, I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
company T, to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2582311