K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2001. Mrs M says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs M took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL  has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M hasnt  said much  about what happened when she took out her store card and PPI 
policy. So the first thing I need to consider is if FICL  gave her a choice in taking out the 
policy, and got her consent  to add it to her account. And having done so, I think that FICL 
made it clear  that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI, and that she chose to do so  
although I can understand why she doesnt  remember this as it was so long ago. I say this 
because FICL has provided  a copy of Mrs Ms store card application  and I can see that the 
policy is presented  as optional, and Mrs M has signed to select  it. This is separate to her 
signature for the card.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, including what  shes said about having good  
sick pay entitlement from her employer  at the time so she didnt need  the PPI. But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of her sick pay, and for longer than she received full sick pay if 
shed needed  to make  a claim. So this point  doesnt change my decision, and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Ref: DRN26161862Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2616186