K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that FCE Bank Plc (FCE) told him he could return  a car he was leasing 
with them  early. But hes upset that they later sent him a bill for the remaining months on the 
agreement. He also complains he wasnt told hed be charged  excess  mileage but that a 
charge has been  levied.
background
Mr W took receipt of a new car in September 2015. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with FCE. He was to pay the finance but his daughter  was the 
registered keeper.
He says he called FCE in July a few months  before the agreement  was to end. He says that 
the agent explained he was able to return the car early and that if he did so the August  
finance instalment  would be taken  but refunded later and that the final two instalments on his 
agreement would be waived.
So Mr W returned the car at the end of July. But he didnt  receive  a refund and therefore 
called FCE who told him there  would  not be a refund and that he would  need  to pay the 
remaining two months on his agreement.
He complained to them  but they explained that his agreement allowed for 36 monthly 
payments and hed only paid 34 of them. They noted  that the registered keeper was not 
Mr W and they referred him to the terms of the finance agreement  which  explained that he 
must be the registered  keeper. They said that this was a breach of his contract. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service where our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
noted that Mr W had called for settlement  quotations in May,  June  and July and he thought 
the business should have  discussed the option  to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement 
with him during those calls. He noted  that the first reference to voluntary  termination wasnt  
until the end of August when system notes show it was considered as a goodwill gesture. He 
thought that if Mr W had been  allowed  to VT he would  not have needed to pay the last three 
months of his contract with FCE. He noted that the system records  suggested an agent had 
faxed a settlement  quotation to the dealership  in July. There was no record  of what  that 
settlement quotation  was but he was persuaded that it was most probably a voluntary 
termination settlement.  So he thought it would be fair to suggest FCE waive the final three 
monthly instalments  and pay him £100  in compensation for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused. He said FCE could deduct  the excess mileage charge from the refund.
He didnt think it was fair to hold Mr W responsible for not being  registered as the keeper of 
the vehicle. He could not see that the car had been registered to anyone else since  the 
agreement began so he thought it was likely  the dealership had set this up when acting as 
FCEs agent during  the negotiation.
FCE didnt agree with the adjudicator. They disputed whether the settlement  figure  sent to 
the dealership  was a VT quote.  They thought it was likely to be a simple  settlement. They  
thought Mr W would not have VTd anyway  as he would not have wanted the negative 
record to have been recorded  on his credit file. FCE therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN29397782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint FCE so please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here 
I have to base  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The right of voluntary  termination is set out in section 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. It allows the customer in a hire purchase  agreement to hand the car back to the 
finance provider  during  the term of the agreement. After returning the car the consumer will 
still owe any arrears, meaning they will have to make any payments theyve missed.  But 
once the arrears are settled, they wont have to pay any more than half of the total amount 
payable under the agreement.
Mr W clearly wanted to settle his agreement  early. I see he asked for settlement quotations 
in May, June  and July of 2018.  I dont  think its reasonable for FCE not to have given him the 
option to VT and I dont think it would be fair to expect Mr W to know about it and ask about  
that right. I say that because  I would  not expect a consumer  to understand all of the 
technical references in a finance agreement and I think  its fair to expect a business to 
explain them. I also say that because I think the agreement is a little vague. It simply refers  
to Mr Ws rights to repay his indebtedness  early and refers him to the relevant legislation. I 
cant see it explained the right to return  the car and that half of the payments would be due, 
or would have to have  been paid on termination.
Mr W was not in arrears when he returned  the car in July 2018.  Hed paid more than half of 
the total sum payable. So I think it would be fair for FCE to treat this as a voluntary 
termination and to return the instalments he paid towards his agreement  in August, 
September and October 2018.  In those circumstances  they would record this voluntary 
termination settlement  to Mr Ws credit file.
I dont accept FCEs view that Mr W would have  been concerned about the VT being added 
to his credit  file. I am not persuaded  that a VT on a credit file would necessarily have a 
negative impact on his ability to obtain credit. It demonstrates an ability to repay credit early.
I also dont accept FCEs argument about there being a breach of contract.  I say that 
because Im persuaded its most  likely the dealership registered Mr Ws daughter as the 
owner of the car. Theyve explained this might  have been the case  and theres not evidence 
the ownership was changed. I think its usual for a dealership to register the keeper of the 
vehicle and, as they were  acting as the agents  of FCE in the negotiation, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to hold Mr W responsible for any breach. 
Ref: DRN29397783Mr W disputes the excess mileage  charge. The car was returned having completed  28,723  
which is above the mileage limit set in the finance agreement. So I dont think  theres  
evidence FCE have  done anything wrong  when making an excess mileage charge.
Its clear Mr W has been inconvenienced by these matters and the issue could have been 
resolved earlier. In those  circumstances I would agree that he should receive some 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes experienced  and, in the circumstances, I would 
agree that £100 is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
end the agreement;  refund  the August instalment and waive the two outstanding 
instalments. They  may deduct the excess mileage  charge from the refund;
pay Mr W £100 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939778