K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account, called a Plus account, in 2007.  
Miss B paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.  
She thinks that HSBC  should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
(HSBC later changed the name  of the Plus account  to the Advance  account, but I have used 
the term Plus  throughout this decision).
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Bs complaint  and didnt think that 
HSBC had mis-sold the Plus account to her. 
Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  
her case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Miss Bs case. Ive looked 
into everything that Miss B and HSBC  have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Miss B and HSBC have  agreed that the Plus account was the first account  which  Miss B 
held with HSBC.  Previously, she had held a fee-free current account with another bank. 
Miss B has told us that she opened  the Plus account  with HSBC after she had moved house 
a considerable  distance. She has explained  that HSBC had several  branches  near to her 
new home, so for convenience she decided to change  banks to HSBC and went  into one of 
the nearby branches to open  an account.  
In 2007, HSBC provided several different types  of bank account, including  a fee-free account 
which was probably  similar to the one Miss B held previously with the other  bank. However, 
Miss B has told us that during the meeting HSBC only told her about the Plus account and 
recommended that she should buy it. 
HSBC has told us that it didnt recommend the Plus account to Miss B, but sold it to her on 
an information only basis. For an information only sale, HSBC  would have  had to tell Miss 
B about the accounts features and costs fairly  and clearly so she could decide if she wanted 
it. If HSBC  did recommend  the  account to Miss B, then I would also have  expected it to 
check that the account and its benefits  were  a reasonable choice for her financial  situation. 
Its now over a decade since HSBC sold the account to Miss B and I cant tell for certain 
what happened during the meeting. However,  from what Miss B has told us, I certainly 
accept that she believed HSBC was recommending that she should buy the Plus account, 
and I have considered her complaint  on that basis. 
Ref: DRN28108912One of the key points in Miss Bs complaint is that she thinks  HSBC  didnt offer her a fair 
choice to take a fee-free  account. Again, I cant tell with certainty what  HSBC did or didnt 
say during the meeting.  However, at that time, fee-free bank accounts were  widely  available  
in the UK from HSBC  itself, from Miss Bs previous bank and from other competitors.  And 
they have continued to be available.  So I think  its unlikely that HSBC  misled Miss B into 
thinking she could  only have the Plus account.  I think its more likely that HSBC  gave  her a 
choice. 
Turning now to whether  HSBC behaved reasonably in recommending  the Plus account to 
Miss B.
When HSBC sold the Plus account  to Miss B, its potential benefits  included travel insurance  
and better  interest  rates on overdrafts  and savings than HSBC offered to its customers with 
fee-free accounts.  Over  the years Miss B held the account, HSBC  changed  the range of 
benefits from time-to-time. For example, after a while it added  car breakdown  cover  and then 
mobile phone insurance.  
Miss B has told us that she didnt want or need  any of these benefits. Specifically,  she has 
said that she had alternative arrangements for car breakdown  cover  and didnt need mobile 
phone insurance.  I fully accept this was the case, but as neither of these benefits was 
included with the Plus account when Miss B bought it, HSBC could not have considered  
them when it sold her the account.  HSBC  has also told us that it kept Miss B informed about 
these changes to the Plus account, and Im satisfied that it did. 
Miss B has also told us that she didnt travel much  and so didnt need the travel insurance. 
Indeed, she has said that she didnt know about it and occasionally bought separate travel  
cover from a different  supplier. She has also said that she didnt overdraw her account  very 
much or have significant savings with HSBC, so the better interest rates  were  not important 
to her. 
I accept that Miss B may not have made extensive  active use of these benefits, but I find it 
highly likely  that HSBC  told her about  them during the meeting. After all, it wanted  to sell her 
the account and it would have been in its own best interests to tell her what  she could get in 
return for her monthly fee. And of course, during  the meeting it would have been difficult  for 
either Miss B or HSBC  to foresee accurately  the extent to which  she would go on to use 
each benefit. Despite this, I can see that Miss B had a potential  need for some  of the 
benefits and as Im satisfied that HSBC gave  her a choice, I think that it probably made its 
recommendation fairly. 
Miss B has also told us that HSBC told her that taking the Plus account would improve her 
credit score and so make it easier for her get a mortgage or other types  of credit if she so 
wanted. Such comments would probably  have been incorrect. Credit  scores are not usually 
affected by the type of bank account  someone holds. But they can be affected by how 
someone uses an account, including the way they manage any overdraft.  The Plus account  
gave Miss B access to quite a high overdraft and I think that it would have been reasonable 
for HSBC to discuss this with her. But I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to convince me that 
HSBC mis-sold the account to Miss B by mis-leading her into thinking that buying it would 
improve her credit score.
Of course,  I cant  be sure that HSBC got everything right for Miss B. I accept  that it may not 
have explained  all the details of the Plus account to her as clearly  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN28108913But Im satisfied that it gave her a choice about  the account, that its recommendation was 
reasonable and that it told her about  the main potential benefits of the account and about the 
fees. I dont think that HSBC mis-sold  the Plus account to Miss B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint about HSBC  
UK Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.  
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2810891