K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi  Personal Finance, wont  pay 
him more  compensation for some issues with the replacement windows that he paid for 
using a fixed sum loan agreement.
background
Mr M agreed  with a replacement window  company  for six replacement windows to be 
supplied and fitted at this home. The windows came with a ten year guarantee. He paid a 
deposit of £415 and used  a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  Personal Finance that he 
signed in December 2017 to pay the balance of £3,740. The loan agreement  was activated 
in January 2018 when Mr M signed  a customer satisfaction note but payments were deferred  
for the first twelve months.
There were some issues with the windows  and the replacement window company did 
extensive remedial  works.  But in August 2018  Mr M said that there were further issues and 
he complained  to the replacement window company. It offered to pay him compensation of 
£400  which it then increased  to £800 with further remedial works to be completed or 
£1,000 with no further remedial work.
Mr M complained to Hitachi Personal Finance  and said that he wanted £1,000 compensation 
and for the replacement  window company to complete the remedial works. Hitachi Personal 
Finance said that the replacement window companys  offers were fair and reasonable. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
both options provided by the replacement window company were reasonable. He said that 
he appreciated that Mr M had experienced a significant amount of inconvenience and he 
said that he wouldve  recommended  compensation within the same range as what  it had 
offered. So he said that Mr M must consider which option is best for him.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that he doesnt want to pay the interest  due under  the agreement to Hitachi  Personal  
Finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The replacement windows were  installed  in January 2018  and Mr M signed a satisfaction  
note so that the fixed sum loan agreement  could be activated  and its clear that he was 
satisfied with the installation. But he complained about multiple issues  with the windows 
between January and August 2018   and each time the replacement window company took 
remedial action to deal with the issues about which hed complained. So during that period 
the replacement  window company had undertaken significant remedial work. 
The replacement window company offered Mr M £400 compensation in August 2018. Mr M 
didnt accept that offer so it then increased  its offer and said that Mr M had the option  to 
either receive £800 compensation  with further remedial works to be completed or £1,000 
compensation with no further remedial work. Mr M said that he wanted £1,000 compensation 
Ref: DRN28800882and further remedial works to be completed. Mr M complained to Hitachi  Personal Finance 
but it didnt uphold his complaint because it said that the replacement window company was 
prepared to continue  with the remedial  work  and that if Mr M wasnt happy to arrange it then 
it wouldnt be able to assist him any further.
The replacement window company was prepared to continue  with the remedial works in 
August 2018  but when  Mr M asked  it for compensation for the issues  with the windows it 
said that it would either  pay him £800 compensation with further remedial works to be 
completed or £1,000 compensation with no further  remedial  work. I consider that that was a 
fair and reasonable offer. Mr M asked it to increase the offer to £1,000 compensation with 
further remedial  work   but the replacement window company refused to further  increase its 
offer. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for 
me to require Hitachi Personal  Finance  to offer more to Mr M than the replacement window 
company has already  offered to him.
Mr M has also said that he doesnt  want to pay the interest due under the agreement to 
Hitachi Personal Finance. But he signed the fixed sum loan agreement in December 2017 
and agreed to pay the interest set out in the agreement to Hitachi  Personal Finance. Hitachi  
Personal Finance  has paid the price of the windows to the replacement window company 
and I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mr M to make the payments to it that are set 
out in the agreement. That includes a twelve month payment deferral period and Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Hitachi  Personal Finance to 
waive or reduce  the interest thats due from Mr M or to extend the payment deferral period. 
I dont consider that Hitachi Personal  Finance has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr M. 
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to take any action in 
response to Mr Ms complaint.
If Mr M now wishes to accept either  of the options that have been  offered to him, he should 
contact the replacement window company.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2880088