K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that after successfully applying for a loan with Lloyds Bank  PLC a technical 
problem meant his application was declined. 
background
Mr H visited a Lloyds branch to apply for a loan after receiving promotional information. His 
application was approved  and Mr H was given a credit agreement. But there was a technical 
problem which meant the application didnt go through. A new application was made but 
instead of being approved it was referred  for more checks. 
Lloyds says its loan assessors looked at Mr Hs application but declined it. Mr H complained  
that he was misled and treated unfairly.  Hed like Lloyds to honour his original loan 
acceptance. 
Mr H complained and Lloyds offered him £50 to apologise but said it couldnt approve the 
loan as itd been declined  correctly. Lloyds also took steps to delete details of its credit  
search from Mr Hs credit  file. 
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at it. He thought  Lloyds 
decision to decline the loan was reasonable but felt its offer of £50 was too low and 
recommended an increase to £100. 
Before Lloyds responded Mr H said he didnt think £100 was a fair way to resolve  his 
complaint and asked  for it to be appealed. Lloyds asked the adjudicator  for a better  
understanding of why theyd increased  the award from £50 to £100 but hasnt said if it 
accepts. As neither  party has accepted  the adjudicators view,  the complaints been passed  
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr H is so upset  about whats happened. He received information  
about loans Lloyds offered and made an application in the hopes of bringing down his other 
borrowing costs. The issue here is that his original  loan application appears to have been  
successful but Lloyds subsequently  took the decision not to go ahead.  So I need to decide 
whether Lloyds should be bound by its initial acceptance of Mr Hs loan application. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but while I appreciate his original application  was approved  I 
dont think Lloyds has treated him unfairly by going  on to decline the second application. 
Mr H says that wouldnt have happened if the adviser he saw hadnt  completed a new 
application but I havent seen anything to support that. And Lloyds is free to decide how it 
processes loan applications, including  when it needs  to do a new one. 
After the first application failed to complete Lloyds completed a second. I realise  this led to a 
different result but I havent  found  that means Lloyds decision was a mistake.  Lloyds referred 
Mr Hs application to its loan assessors  who looked at it and took the decision to decline.  
Lloyds says the application didnt  meet  the lending criteria and Im satisfied thats the case.  I 
Ref: DRN29461522can understand how disappointed Mr H is but I dont agree Lloyds unfairly  or incorrectly 
declined his loan application. 
Lloyds offered Mr H £50 for the trouble and upset  caused  but the adjudicator thought  £100 
was fairer. The adjudicator said the level of disappointment Mr H experienced along with the 
inconvenience caused meant  £100  was a fairer  figure. I agree with the adjudicator.  Mr H is 
understandably very disappointed. And he had to go through  two loan applications  because  
of Lloyds technical problems. 
Ive carefully considered  the fairest way to resolve  this complaint and Im satisfied  that £100 
reflects the impact of Lloyds error on Mr H. As a result, Im upholding this complaint  and 
direct Lloyds to pay Mr H £100. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Mr H £100 
less any compensation  already paid. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2946152