K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 on a 
credit card. Mrs K says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen the application form Mrs K completed when she took out her credit  card by 
post. It included  a section headed  Insure  your payments  which asked if she wanted to 
take out PPI cover,  the yes box has been  ticked, but there was also the option to tick 
no if she hadnt  wanted the cover. With what Ive seen, and with what I know about how 
Capital One generally  sold PPI, I think Mrs K agreed to take the PPI, knowing she didnt 
have to. But I can understand why she might not remember that now given how long 
ago the PPI was sold.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have  to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted  this kind 
of cover. And based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs K has 
said she was entitled to some sick pay, and had some  other means of meeting her 
repayments such as rental income and a sickness policy.  But while Ive thought carefully 
about what  Mrs K has told us about  her other means, I dont think  that what shes  said 
she had available means the PPI wouldnt have provided her with a useful benefit. And 
Mrs K hasnt  been able to provide  us with anything to show exactly  what  her sickness 
policy covered or when  it began,  so I dont think it would be fair to take account of that 
here. 
So I think the PPI would  have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should  have told Mrs K about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs K, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN25356212To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said, but for the reasons explained above her points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs K any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont make  any further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535621