K822xComplaint
Mrs P has complained that Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  has unfairly 
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy. 
Background
Mrs P took out a lifetime pet insurance policy online in 2015. The policy  is underwritten  by 
Red Sands. 
At renewal in 2018 the premium Mrs P was offered increased from £91.40 a month to 
£298.98 a month,  more  than tripling. Mrs P complained and says she recognises she has 
made claims  on the policy, but the size of the increase  is unfair. She feels the increase goes 
against the policy being marketed as a lifetime policy  as its now become unaffordable  for 
her and she has had to cancel the cover.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Ps policy was too high or she 
should have been charged  less for the policy.
While Mrs Ps premium  has seen  a significant  increase,  I havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest Red Sands has treated her differently to how it would have  treated  any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Red Sands has singled her out and treated 
her unfairly compared to its other  customers or that Red Sands needs  to offer her cover for a 
lower premium going forwards 
I know this will be disappointing to Mrs P, as that was the outcome she had been  hoping for. 
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs P a significant amount of upset as, due to the 
medical conditions  her pet now has, she cant find cover elsewhere.  And shes had to cancel 
her Red Sands policy as its become unaffordable  for her. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs P took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Mrs P before she 
took out the policy, particularly when the policy was being marketed as lifetime insurance. 
Ref: DRN24181562She needed this information to properly understand what it was she was buying and so she 
could make an informed  choice. But, having  looked  at the information Red Sands  gave  
Mrs P about  the policy when it was sold, I dont think it made this clear to her.
The policy was sold on the internet  and the screen  shots of what Mrs P would have seen are
no longer available, so I dont know what Mrs P was presented with at the time. Ive seen a 
copy of the terms and conditions of the policy and these do say that the cost of the policy 
could change. But I think its very unlikely  this term would have been sufficiently highlighted 
to Mrs P online and following that she wouldve had to read through several pages of closely  
worded text to see it. And in any event, I dont think the long-term risk that the cost of the 
policy could rise significantly is made  clear.  
So I dont  think Red Sands gave Mrs P clear enough  information  about the policy.
Where I find something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely to have happened  if it 
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Mrs P chose to take out pet insurance,  so she wanted some type of cover for her dog. And, 
as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level 
of cover it provided. If Mrs P hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either  had no cover 
at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced  level of 
cover, where she would still have found herself  in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were 
no longer covered. So I think  its likely  she would still have gone ahead  with the lifetime 
policy, even if shed  known the premium could  increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs P wasnt so 
shocked or upset  when  the cost increased  significantly   instead this would have  been  
something she was expecting to happen.  
Mrs P has now cancelled  her policy and lost the cover for her dog, as she cant  afford to 
keep paying the increasing cost. Mrs Ps dog is fairly  young  and has an ongoing  condition,  
so the decision  to cancel the policy must  have  been a very difficult  one to make   this isnt a 
position she expected to find herself in. Better information about  the policy wouldve meant 
that she could  have been more prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to 
afford to continue with the policy and that her pet might lose cover for their ongoing and pre-
existing conditions.
Mrs P has benefitted from this policy. But any award  I make isnt to compensate  Mrs P for 
financial loss. And its also not to help cover her dogs medical costs going  forward   
although of course  Mrs P can use it for that. Its about the impact that the lack of clear 
information provided by Red Sands has had on Mrs P, both practically and emotionally. 
Shes has been very open and honest with us about her personal  circumstances and I think 
this lack of clear information  has caused  Mrs P significant trouble and upset.  So I think  it 
would be fair for Red Sands to pay her £1,000 as compensation for this.
my final decision
Ref: DRN24181563I uphold this complaint.
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should pay Mrs P £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject this decision before 8 August 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2418156