K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 1993  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £260 a month towards Mr Ss mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £18.07  a month.  
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a Civil Servant. He has told us he was entitled to 12 
months full sick pay and would have received redundancy pay. Mr S has said he had a 
medical condition  at the time of the sale. 
Mr S has also told us that he had £25,000  in savings at the point of sale.  
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 1999. 
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
 
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN28453582As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ss case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN28453583professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and B&B, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Looking at the mortgage application form, there  was a separate  section for PPI. A question 
within that section  asked: Do you wish to take advantage of the security  and protection  
offered by the Societys Payment  Protection Insurance Policy  to cover your mortgage 
repayments (Yes or No). Mr S has answered  YES.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN28453584did B&B  provide advice?
Both B&B and Mr S agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr S. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr S was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr S was unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and the actual cost. Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr S would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
The evidence from the time of sale shows that the cost of the monthly premium was detailed 
in the mortgage offer but it doesnt tell us whether B&B gave sufficient information about  the 
actual monthly benefit or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr S agreed to take out 
the policy. 
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
Ref: DRN28453585good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that B&B ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that done things properly. 
Mr S says he would  not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr S thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr S was given about the cost was clear. But the information  about other  
aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  B&B made clear exactly  what Mr S would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Ss expectations about what  
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to injury or illness of which Mr S was aware of or 
sought treatment  for during the two years before the policy  start date. 
Whilst the policy did not exclude claims relating to back and mental  health  conditions, 
it did contain limitations relating to back and mental health conditions,  placing more 
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN28453586cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Mr S says he would  have turned 65 during the term of the mortgage and therefore the policy 
didnt cover the entirety of the mortgage loan period. Mr S was 43 years old at the time of the 
sale and the mortgage was set up to run for 22 years. Therefore, Mr S would have turned 65 
only just as the mortgage borrowing was reaching its end.
Although Mr S says he had a medical  condition when  the PPI was taken out and the policy 
wouldnt have provided cover had he needed  time off work because  of this condition, I dont 
think better information about  this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this 
because Mr S suffered  an injury  11 years before the sale and he hasnt said that the 
treatment wasnt successful at the time or that it was an ongoing problem. So I dont  think 
that Mr S would have  thought that injury would be the reason why hed need to make a claim 
on the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
B&B may not have  told Mr S that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. In those 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr S would still have thought  a policy  that paid up to 12 
monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to him and would help him manage 
the consequences should Mr S be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure his home was not placed at risk and might potentially  
help preserve Mr Ss sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr S would have taken out the policy  
in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN28453587Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude B&B should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1993 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find B&B negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that B&B had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN28453588Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2845358