K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  added  interest and charges  to 
his overdraft when  he was experiencing financial difficulty. Hes unhappy with the amount 
Lloyds had refunded so far.
Background
Mr B has also complained about  the interest, fees and charges added to a credit card. But 
weve already explained  to the parties that that complaint is being looked at separately.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Bs complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
Mr Bs overdraft  had already become  unsustainable for him by March 2013. And as the 
position hadnt improved by the end of the period it already refunded  fees for (March 2013  to 
June 2014) it needed to refund any interest,  fees and charges (not already refunded) added  
to Mr Bs overdraft from this point. Lloyds  didnt provide a response to our adjudicators 
assessment. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think Lloyds acted unfairly by not 
refunding the fees added to Mr Bs overdraft from June 2014  onwards. Mr Bs statements 
show that he hadnt seen a credit  balance for an extended period  of time. And the funds  
going into to the account were nowhere  near enough to repay  what was owed within a 
reasonable period of time.  Indeed, the amount going  in was usually only enough to cover the 
charges being  added and stop the balance going over the limit. So I think that Lloyds should  
have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance 
rather than adding even  more interest, fees and charges  on the overdraft.
All of this means  that Lloyds  should  have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him assistance. As Lloyds didnt react  to Mr Bs account usage and 
instead continued charging  in the same  way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr B lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong and 
that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr B.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Lloyds  to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that any interest, fees and 
charges (not already  refunded) applied to it from June 2014 onwards are 
removed.
Ref: DRN20690472AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs credit 
file, it should reflect what would  have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action  on the overdraft in March  2013. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
It is unclear whether Lloyds has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-party 
debt purchaser,  or asked  a third-party  to collect the balance on its behalf.  But if Lloyds has 
sold an outstanding  balance on this account  to a third-party debt purchaser, it will need to 
either buy the account back  from the third-party and make the necessary adjustments, pay 
an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary adjustments,  or pay Ms B 
an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2069047