K820x#14complaint
In 1996, Mrs V took out a personal reserve account  with Marks & Spencer. Alongside the 
account, Marks & Spencer  also sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mrs V thinks  that Marks & Spencer  mis-sold the policy to her and believes  that it should  
refund her all the premiums she paid for it, plus interest.
Although, Marks & Spencer sold the policy, Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz),  as the insurer, 
has taken responsibility  for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Allianz  in the rest 
of this decision.
background
I previously sent Allianz and Mrs V a provisional  decision on this complaint. That provisional 
decision now forms part of this final decision and I have attached a copy. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and 
explained that I didnt think Allianz  had mis-sold the PPI policy  to Mrs V. 
I asked Mrs V and Allianz to send me any further comments and evidence  they wanted me 
to consider before I made a final decision.  Neither has added anything further. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Vs case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mrs V and Allianz  have told us or sent us throughout this 
case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider  since I sent my provisional  decision, l 
have reached the same  conclusion, for the same reasons.
I do not think that Allianz mis-sold PPI to Mrs V. 
my final decision 
 
For the reasons  I have  sent out above  and in my provisional decision, I am not upholding 
Mrs Vs complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give her any 
money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28868422COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
In 1996, Mrs V took out a personal reserve  account  with Marks & Spencer. Alongside the account, 
Marks & Spencer also sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Mrs V thinks that Marks & Spencer mis-sold the policy to her and believes that it should refund  her all 
the premiums she paid for it, plus interest.
Although, Marks & Spencer sold the policy, Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer, has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision.
background
The adjudicator who looked into this complaint didnt think that Allianz  had mis-sold  the PPI policy to 
Mrs V and didnt recommend  that it should give her any money back. Mrs V disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look into her case, so it has come  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding what to do about  Mrs Vs case. Ive 
looked into everything and Im unlikely  to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs V has told us that she never thought she had PPI and was paying for a policy (she) didnt 
require or use. Mrs V bought this policy over twenty years ago, and there isnt much paperwork from 
the time still available. But Allianz has sent us a copy of the type of form which  it says Mrs V would 
have filled out to apply  for her reserve account. I think the form shows that Allianz gave Mrs V a 
choice to apply for the account with or without PPI. 
The form had a section  about PPI which was separate from information  about  the account itself. This 
section of the form included a brief description  of the policy and an indication of its cost. The form 
then asked customers  to tick a box if they wanted PPI. I think its likely that Mrs V completed such  a 
form and ticked the box to take PPI before Allianz added it to her account. If she hadnt wanted PPI, 
she could have left this section of the form blank. I fully accept that after such  a long time Mrs V may 
not remember  these details, but I think its unlikely  that Allianz added PPI to her account  without her 
knowledge and consent. 
Both Mrs V and Allianz have  told us that Allianz  didnt recommend the policy to Mrs V or advise her to 
take it. This meant that Allianz didnt have to check that the policy was right for Mrs V, but it still had to 
tell her about the policy  fairly  and clearly  so she could decide whether or not she wanted  it. 
Mrs V has told us that Allianz didnt tell her anything about  the policy.  The application form contained 
a few details about the cover  and mentioned that there was more  information  overleaf.  But I accept 
its certainly possible that Allianz didnt  explain  things to Mrs V as thoroughly as it should  have done. 
So Ive looked at the main features of the policy  and Mrs Vs circumstances in 1996 to see if there 
was anything about the policy which may have  put her off buying it if Allianz had explained  everything 
properly.
The policy had eligibility rules which  Mrs V met and she seems to have been able to afford to pay for 
it. I havent  seen anything to show me that Mrs V was affected by the policys main exclusions and 
limitations. And from what Mrs V has told us, she would have had few other means with which to 
make her account repayments if she was unable to work. Given Mrs Vs circumstances, I think the 
policy could have been useful for her. 
Ref: DRN28868423So while I cant be sure that Allianz explained everything to Mrs V as clearly and fairly as it should 
have done, I havent seen anything to make me think she wouldnt have taken it if Allianz had done 
things properly.  I dont think Allianz mis-sold PPI to Mrs V. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Mrs Vs complaint or to tell 
Allianz Insurance Plc to give her any money back. 
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision before 3 January 2019.  I will then consider 
any responses I receive and make my final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2886842