K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Coventry Building  Society (CBS)  mis-sold them  two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  two PPI policies  the first in 1994, which  they took out at the same 
time as taking out a mortgage. They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The second  policy  was taken out in 2002 at the same time as Mr and Mrs H took out further  
borrowing. And this replaced  the first policy. This time they applied for the PPI policy through 
the post.
The first policy provided  cover for both Mr and Mrs H for accident, sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month  
towards Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost just over £20 a month. 
The second  policy  provided the same  type of cover but for Mr H only  Mrs H wasnt  covered 
by it. It offered to repay £400  a month  towards  their mortgage balance. At the time it also 
cost around £20 a month.
Mr H has told us about his circumstances in 1994 but not 2002. When the adjudicator issued 
their assessment of the complaint, they assumed Mr Hs circumstances were broadly the 
same. And neither  Mr and Mrs Hs representative  nor Mr H corrected this. So I think  its 
reasonable to conclude  that at the time of both sales Mr H was employed as an engineer.  He 
told us he was entitled to 12 months  sick pay and had critical illness  cover. He said he didnt 
have any other means of repaying their mortgage should he be unable  to work. Mr H was in 
good health at the time of the sales. 
In 1994 Mrs H was employed as a sales and service advisor for a bank.  She has told us she 
too was entitled to 12 months sick pay and also had critical illness  cover. She said she didnt  
have any other means of repaying their mortgage should she be unable  to work. Mrs H said 
she had a medical condition some  years prior to the time of the sale.  
Because Mrs H wasnt covered by the 2002 policy, Ive not set out her circumstances at this 
time here.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay  I find it highly unlikely that either of them  were  
entitled to 12 months  full sick pay. In my experience this level of sick pay is rare and only 
typically found in very specific roles  and/or  employment contracts.  
I think more likely than not Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay entitlements would have been paid at a 
reduced rate for a period of time  for example six months full pay followed by six months  
half pay.
CBS has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
For the sake of clarity  I can see that Mr and Mrs H also took out another PPI policy  in 
2005. But Mr and Mrs H didnt pay any premiums  and it was cancelled  shortly after they took 
it out. As such this doesnt form part of this decision.
Ref: DRN28411582Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
 
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN28411583The sales  took place  in 1994  and 2002  before the sale of general insurance  products like 
this became regulated by the FSA in January  2005. So the FSAs  and the FCAs overarching  
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at both times, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, for the 2002 sale, The General Insurance Standards Councils  General 
Insurance Code  for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
And relevant for both sales  - The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published  a 
number of codes,  which I consider  to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice  
expected from intermediaries, like CBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the relevant times. 
So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case.  Specifically for the 2002 
sale, there was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN28411584In relation to the 1994 sale - under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to 
complaints like this about acts or omissions before 1 December  2001,  Im also required to 
take into account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of 
the Building Societies Ombudsman   might have been expected to reach in relation to an 
equivalent complaint. I note that under the Building  Societies Ombudsmans terms of 
reference the Ombudsman  was required to decide  complaints  by reference to what was, in 
his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were optional. 
Because both sales happened quite some time ago  its also the case that Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage account has been  closed  since 2004 - CBS hasnt got copies of the paperwork 
from the time of either sale. And this isnt surprising  business dont have to keep records 
indefinitely.
CBS has provided us with some  example  paperwork, which  it says is representative of what 
Mr and Mrs H would  have seen when  they took out their PPI policies in 1994 and 2002.
Ref: DRN28411585Looking at these  I can see that in the1994  example mortgage application, the applicant  was 
asked whether they wanted PPI or not and they were asked to indicate  their choice by 
ticking one of two boxes  Yes  or No. And if the Yes box was ticked  it said a separate  
application form was required to take out the cover   an example of which CBS has also 
provided. Given a separate application  was required, I dont think  the applicant  would  have 
thought they had to have PPI.
Similarly in 2002, the further advance application  required the applicant  to tick a box if they 
wanted to take out PPI  they could also tick a box to say they didnt want  it. And again  
completion of a separate application was required to take out the cover.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything  to persuade me that Mr 
and Mrs H saw something  very different from the example paperwork provided, I think its 
more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take the 
policies out by completing the paperwork as required  and did so without undue  pressure.  
did CBS provide advice?
CBS says it didnt  provide  advice during either  sale. Mr and Mrs H havent said either way.   
Looking at what happened when CBS sold Mr and Mrs H both policies, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice  on either occasion   Ive not seen anything to show  or suggest that 
CBS considered Mr and Mrs Hs particular circumstances and expressed an opinion about 
the cover  being  right for them.
This means  CBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out each policy,  including drawing to their attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of each policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
each policy  was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs H (Mr H only for the 2002  policy) were unable to work through  accident, sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion  because I think  
its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have taken  out either policy without any sense of what the 
policy was for and of how much the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost (I cant be sure this was clear  from the example  
applications because  it appears it might have been lumped together with any associated  life 
assurance premium) or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to 
take out the policy. 
So I dont  think CBS gave  Mr and Mrs H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out each policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN28411586Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did CBS  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold each policy to Mr and Mrs 
H. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs H would have still taken out the policies,  had CBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs H say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policies against the benefits they offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of them both (Mr H only for the 2002 policy)  being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H likely  chose  to take the policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made their decisions based on incomplete information. So what  Mr and 
Mrs H thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. 
The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining  if Mr and Mrs 
H have suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN28411587I think the information Mr and Mrs H were given about the benefit of each policy was clear.  I 
say this because  both PPI applications I think they were asked to complete required 
handwritten benefit  amounts  including  a total amount - to be put in the relevant  boxes.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the actual cost and the limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been each time.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policies (as I said above the applications  appear to have required a 
combined cost to be input  in the benefit  section of the forms) I cant be sure CBS told them  
the exact premium  at the point they applied for each policy. Having  said that, it seems likely 
Mr and Mrs H would  have been told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with CBS at the time or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  each  time were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr and Mrs H knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy (subject  to a 
time limit for the 2002 policy); 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr and 
Mrs H (Mr H only for the 2002 policy)  werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs H (Mr 
H only for the 2002 policy) be unable to do their own job or any other work which  they 
were reasonably qualified to do; and
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policies werent  as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in the sales, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policies.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sales  shows that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them. Mr and Mrs H were eligible  for 
the relevant policy  benefits and they provided  cover that, despite their limitations and 
exclusions, couldve proved useful to them should  the insured risks have become a reality.  
Although Mrs H says she had an injury, which happened when she was a teenager  and she 
missed some time off school, I dont think better information about  this exclusion would have 
put them off agreeing to the 1994  policy. 
Ref: DRN28411588I say this because  Im not persuaded  Mrs H at the time of the sale would have reasonably 
considered her injury,  which happened when she was a child to be an existing medical 
condition - shes not said it caused  her ongoing  problems in adulthood or that it impacted her 
ability to work. And Mrs Hs medical history isnt relevant to the 2002 policy sale because  
she wasnt covered by it.
In addition I havent seen any evidence to suggest  they wouldve been  caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions - so I still think they had some good reasons to take the policies 
out.
Neither policy excluded  back or mental health  conditions or placed any additional restrictions 
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policies  without first providing  some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were not only unable  to 
do their job but also unable to do any job, which in the insurers view they might reasonably 
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into their thinking about what  they would do. And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover.
CBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than I consider  Mr and Mrs H would have received full 
sick pay for and their statutory redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay or any 
redundancy money for other use.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out both policies. The policies  were  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr and Mrs H were made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs H would have  taken out each policy in any event despite the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN28411589That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H would not 
have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, 
there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
them out had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information  about each policy  
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think CBS misrepresented the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
CBSs statements misrepresented the contracts,  in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1994  and 2002 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN284115810Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contracts to Mr and Mrs H and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that CBS had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2841158