K820x#14complaint
Mrs M doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use some of her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her protected  trust deed  came to an end.
background
In 2018 RBS wrote to Mrs M offering to repay  some of the commission  and profit share  it 
had received on the PPI policy it had sold Mrs M alongside a credit card. It offered to repay 
anything it had received that was more than 50% of the premiums Mrs M paid. The amount 
offered was £2,612.90 (later increased to £2,616.44).
Mrs M accepted RBS offer.  
However, in 2011,  Mrs M had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust deed 
 for her creditors. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mrs M was subsequently discharged from her trust deed in 2014.
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mrs M hadnt fully 
repaid on her credit card debt despite  being discharged from her protected  trust deed. 
Mrs M, unhappy  she hadnt received the compensation, brought  her complaint to our service.
Mrs M says it is unfair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which  she 
has been discharged. Mrs M says the compensation should be paid directly to her. She had 
kept to the arrangement of the trust deed and RBS had agreed with those terms. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought RBS had acted fairly in using the 
compensation to reduce the credit card debt that was left unpaid  despite Mrs M being  
discharged from her trust deed.   
Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators view.  As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).  This Act also 
created whats now called the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Section 225 of FSMA explains  that were here to resolve disputes quickly  and with minimum 
formality. And section 228 says a complaint is to be determined by reference  to what is, in 
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN25417612Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules  for us to follow. These rules 
are known as the DISP  rules  and they can be found online.
DISP 3.6.1 R repeats  section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what 
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that Mrs M is owed compensation by RBS for the high level of 
commission and profit share it had received from her PPI premiums.  
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the 
compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount that Mrs M says was written  off after she 
was discharged from her protected trust deed. 
Mrs M says as she was discharged from her protected trust deed all of the compensation 
should be paid directly to her. She also said she had been compensated directly  by two 
other businesses and didn't see why RBS should  be any different. 
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against the credit card debt that hasnt 
been fully repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed  
despite Mrs M being discharged from their protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1. 
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Ref: DRN25417613Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But Im not bound  to follow  it. And if 
I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint  as required of me through  
FSMA Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce Mrs Ms debt 
which she didnt fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show that when the debt was written off it amounted  to 
£6,681.60 of which £2,512.22 was paid off via the trust deed. This left a balance  of 
£4,169.38. This is money that Mrs M wouldnt ever have had to repay  to RBS. 
The fact that Mrs M entered into a protected trust deed, and was discharged  from her debt 
when her trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Mrs M, when Mrs M 
wouldnt have had to pay back the thousands  of pounds she borrowed. 
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the debt that 
was left unpaid  and that Mrs M wouldnt  otherwise  ever have had to repay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use Mrs Ms PPI unfair commission compensation to reduce the monies  owed and left 
unpaid when  Mrs Ms trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2541761