K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited stopped paying the monthly benefit 
following a successful claim  she made on her employers income protection policy. 
background
Miss F is a member  of her employers group income  protection  scheme. In October 2017 her 
claim was accepted, once  the deferred period had passed. In February 2018 the claim was 
reviewed and in June 2018  Aviva  asked Miss F to attend an appointment with an 
independent medical examiner (IME) to assess her ability to work. Following the assessment 
Aviva stopped paying the claim with immediate  effect. 
Miss F was unhappy with the way in which the appointment was handled, including  the 
IMEs manner and the duration  of the appointment. She also provided more  information from 
her GP which said she wasnt fit to work. Aviva sent this information to the IME to consider. 
He explained  the information from the GP didnt change his mind about Miss Fs ability to 
complete a phased  return  to work  and he responded to her comments on the appointment.   
In September  2018 Miss F began a phased return to work and by November was completing  
her full hours. Shes  explained she felt forced to return to work and that the decision had 
been made overnight. Miss F told us this caused  her a great deal of worry and upset 
including having  a significant  impact  on her familys financial circumstances  and her mental  
wellbeing. Shes  also unhappy that she didnt receive the full benefit  that was paid to the 
policyholder after she raised a complaint.  
In their final response letter Aviva agreed  the claim  shouldnt  have been stopped  straight 
away. They  explained  theyd  paid a further five months benefit to Miss Fs employer, rather  
than the three months the IME had suggested.  They acknowledged Miss Fs feedback about 
the appointment with the IME but said, in summary,  their decision to close the claim was 
reasonable. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. When our service first contacted Aviva they 
said they were happy to obtain a further,  up to date, assessment.  But when they contacted  
Miss F she said shed been back at work  full time since November. So there was no benefit 
payable at the moment. 
Our investigator then looked into the decision to stop the claim. She didnt  think Aviva had 
acted unreasonably by relying on the IMEs report when declining  the claim. And she thought 
theyd taken reasonable steps to put right the fact the claim had been stopped  with 
immediate effect. 
Miss F didnt agree. She thought that the IME had completely disregarded her depression 
and didnt understand the battles she faces.  She also told us she feels  strongly  about  only 
being told she could  appeal and complain by her manager. And she explained  shes recently 
been told by her consultant that in the future she may be unable to walk. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22414062The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms say that Aviva will normally pay all benefit due under the policy to the 
policyholder, which  in this case is Miss Fs employer. In order to make a successful claim the 
scheme member, Miss F, must meet the policy definition of incapacity  which  is:
The members inability  to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her 
normal occupation, and other occupations  for which they are suited by reason of 
education, training  or experience, resulting from their illness or injury. 
 
I can see from the evidence provided  Miss F has faced a lot of challenges over the last few 
years in relation  to her health.  Shes  been  diagnosed with a number of health conditions  and 
Im aware this has also impacted on her mental  wellbeing too. I dont doubt this has been a 
difficult and upsetting time for her. Miss F has made  a number of representations.  Ive taken 
into account all her comments and evidence shes provided. However, Ive only referred to 
those which  I think are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. Aviva has acknowledged the claim shouldnt have 
been closed so quickly and its paid the policyholder five months  benefit.  I dont  think  theyve 
treated Miss F unfairly or acted unreasonably  by closing the claim. I say that because: 
Im satisfied  Aviva has taken into account the available  medical evidence and theyve 
relied on the opinion of a suitably qualified medical expert when deciding that Miss F 
no longer fell within the definition of incapacity  set out in the policy.  Aviva also 
arranged for their Chief Medical Officer  to review the case before closing the claim; 
The appointment with the IME lasted for over an hour and included  a range of 
functional tests.  When Miss F challenged the IMEs findings Aviva provided additional 
information from Miss Fs GP, together with her comments about how the 
appointment was conducted, to the IME for him to consider. Thats what  Id expect 
Aviva to do and I think they responded appropriately by obtaining the IMEs further 
comments on Miss Fs comments;
I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to place  more weight on the evidence  of the 
IME in Miss Fs case. The IME is a consultant  in occupational medicine rather  than a 
general practitioner. He met Miss F face to face,  was provided with her medical 
history and observed her completing functional assessments  specifically designed to 
assess her ability to work. The IME also commented on the further evidence  
provided, saying  hed taken into account  Miss Fs functional  ability, rather  than her 
diagnoses alone. So Im satisfied Aviva  has fairly  considered the GPs evidence and 
theres a reasonable explanation for them placing more weight on the IMEs 
assessment in this case;
The supplementary report from the IME confirms that he took into account  Miss Fs 
mental state and didnt dispute  she was experiencing depression. However, he 
concluded she was functioning well from a mental health  perspective and there was 
no indication of cognitive decline. So Im satisfied Aviva took this into account when 
assessing the claim; 
Ref: DRN22414063I appreciate Miss F feels  the appointment was rushed. But the consultant has 
provided a reasonable explanation  for the amount of time he spent with Miss F. He 
explained that he exceeded the usual appointment time of one hour. He also set out 
how the appointment was structured and said hed offered Miss F a number of 
opportunities to add further information if she wanted to. So this point doesnt change  
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint;  
Aviva  acknowledges  that they shouldnt have closed the claim without giving  Miss F 
more notice. The IME recommended  a phased  return over three months.  To put 
things right, Aviva paid the policyholder five months of benefit  to support her whilst  
she was discussing her return  to work  with them.  I think  this was reasonable as it 
reflected the period the IME had referred to, and an additional two months benefit. 
They also made it clear to the policyholder  they were willing  to complete a further 
medical assessment  and consider proportionate benefit if Miss Fs phased return 
extended beyond  that period of time which I also think was reasonable;
Its up to the policyholder to decide how much  of the benefit is paid to Miss F.
I appreciate Miss F hasnt received all of the additional five months  benefit  money  
from her employer. But its not Avivas responsibility under the policy  terms to pay it 
directly to her as the policy  terms say it should  normally be paid to the policyholder; 
Miss F says she wasnt told about the right to appeal  or to complain by Aviva. I note 
the policy documents contain details about how to make a complaint about Aviva. 
The relevant additional evidence has been  considered by the IME and he was able to 
comment on it. So, in any event, Im not persuaded Miss F has lost out as a result of 
any failing in relation to this;
I appreciate Miss F has been told she may no longer be able to walk in the future and 
I can understand how upsetting this must have been for her. But, at the moment 
Miss F remains  in employment and is working  full time. And I can only consider this 
complaint on the basis of the current position,  rather than what  may happen in the 
future. So this doesnt change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2241406