K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
background 
In September  2017 Ms S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sake 
agreement with Clydesdale. 
Ms S says that when the car was supplied  it had no fuse box cover, the tyres were flat, there 
was no oil and it was sluggish  to drive.
In October  2017 Ms S was advised by the police that the tyres  needed  replacing.  She 
contacted the dealership, who reimbursed her for the cost of two new tyres.
Ms S says the car continued to feel sluggish and a light illuminated on the dashboard. A third 
party breakdown company  advised  Ms S that there  was a fault with the gearbox.
Ms S returned the car to the supplying  dealer  and the gearbox  was replaced. She waited 
several months for the repairs to be completed. During this time Ms Ss monthly repayments 
were reimbursed by the garage.
The repairs  were successful but when the car was returned  to Ms S the battery  was flat. 
Clydesdale covered the cost of this.
In September  2018 Ms S experienced smoke coming out of the engine. A third party  motor  
rescue organisation advised her that the injectors  were faulty. Ms S says shes  been  unable 
to drive the car since  because the dealership has gone into liquidation and shes  been  
unable to contact  them about repairs. She wants to reject the car.
Our investigator didnt  think it was reasonable for Ms S to reject the car. He said the gearbox 
repairs had been  successful and the more recent  fault with the injectors was likely to be due 
to wear and tear. The investigator felt that the gearbox repairs  had taken an unreasonable 
length of time and said Ms S should  receive compensation for this.
Ms S didnt agree. She said shed only had the car back for a short time after the gearbox  
repairs before it went wrong again. She said she would obtain an independent inspection  but 
at the time of writing this decision  Ms S hasnt provided anything further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Clydesdale has supplied the car under  a hire purchase agreement,  theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car, such as that supplied  to Ms S, to have  a 
degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied 
that the fault with the injectors was present or developing  at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN26562452Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to out things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair the fault. If the repair  isnt successful the consumer can reject the car. 
After the first 6 months its up to the consumer to show  that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Ms S experienced issues with the gearbox within the first 6 months. The gearbox  was 
replaced by the dealership at no cost to Ms S and the repair was successful.
The more  recent  issue  with the injectors has occurred outside  of the first 6 months. So its up 
to Ms S to show that this was a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply. 
Ms S was going  to obtain an independent  report to comment on this but she hasnt supplied 
this. So I need  to reach my decision based  on the available evidence.
This is a second hand car which was 5 years old at the point of supply and which  had 
covered approximately 50,000 miles.  I would  expect a car of this age and mileage to develop  
issues and require replacement parts  from time to time. The fault with the injectors caused 
the car to emit black smoke. If this fault had been present or developing at the point of 
supply, I think it wouldve presented itself sooner. Theres no evidence  to suggest  that the 
fault was present at the point of supply. The third party breakdown  organisations report  
dated October 2018 doesnt say that this was a point  of supply fault. In the absence of any 
evidence to persuade me otherwise, I think the fault with the injectors  is more  likely to be 
due to wear and tear.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im unable to recommend that Ms S is allowed to reject the car. 
However, I think the repairs to the gearbox took an unreasonable length of time so Ms S 
should receive compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services  
Limited must  pay compensation of £200 to Ms S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2656245