K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to send her closing 
statements and account summary sheets for two accounts that shed held with it in the 
format she wanted.  Shes  also unhappy with the service  it gave  her.
background
Miss Js accounts were closed by NatWest. Following this, she asked NatWest for her final 
statements and summary sheets to check all the transactions  on her account. 
NatWest sent Miss J transaction statements. But Miss J says that when she received these 
statements, part of one was missing and there were no summary sheets included. 
Miss J was unhappy with this and the service  given to her by NatWest and she brought her 
complaint to our service. 
When our investigator was looking into the complaint, she got in touch with NatWest to see if 
theyd be able to send the information  Miss J wanted in the format she wanted it to try and 
help to resolve the complaint informally. As a result, NatWest did send account statements  
to Miss J in the format  she requested  as well as sending her a summary letter for both 
accounts which detailed  the same information  the summary  sheets wouldve contained. 
Miss J was happy with the account statements but she didnt accept the summary letters.  
She wanted them to look the same as the summary sheets shed received before and 
couldnt understand why NatWest wasnt able to do this. 
Miss J had also raised a concern about  the account  balance. In her complaint form 
completed for our service, Miss J said she felt the summary sheets should say under NEW 
BALANCE ACCOUNT CLOSED...  and that the  final statements on last transactions 
should state 0 balance  as accounts closed.
The concern  with her account balance stemmed from when  the account was closed down 
and NatWest paid Miss J accrued interest  on her account which  wasnt  yet showing on the 
account. This made the closing  balance  of the account appear as though it was overdrawn 
when actually this wasnt the case. NatWest explained this wasnt something that could be 
changed due to the account being  closed.  However, having recognised the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Miss J, it offered  her £75 compensation for this. 
Finally, Miss J is unhappy with the service NatWest  gave  her in this matter. She says there 
were delays and feels  the matter has been  handled  poorly by NatWest  which  caused  her 
distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator initially thought NatWest should pay Miss J a further £150 compensation to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  caused. But she did feel the bank  had resolved 
Miss Js complaint when  it sent her the account statements and summary letters.
This matter was then passed to me for a decision.  Both parties were then contacted to 
explain that my provisional opinion was different to the investigators view. I didnt intend  to 
uphold this complaint as I didnt agree that NatWest needed to do more than it had already 
done when it sent Miss J the transaction statements. This is because  the transaction 
statements wouldve included the original  information that Miss J had requested.  I also 
Ref: DRN25213382thought its important to recognise that NatWest  has sought to assist  Miss J by recreating 
account statements  and summary letters for her in addition to the transaction statements. So 
I didnt agree that the NatWest needed  to do anything more than it had already done in this 
matter. 
NatWest didnt have  any further comments to make  in response to my provisional  opinion. 
Miss J responded to say that she feels that our service has wasted her time and given her 
false information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ive also taken into account the comments Ive received since  I sent both parties my 
provisional opinion  in this matter. Having  done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set 
out previously and for the same  reasons.  It follows that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint in 
this matter. Ill explain why.
Our service doesnt generally require a bank  or financial business  to provide information to 
its consumers in a particular way or following a particular template. The important thing is 
that the bank does  provide the information  to a consumer and that its in a legible format.  
Whilst acknowledging the format of the information given by NatWest to Miss J wasnt quite 
as she wanted  it to be, NatWest did give Miss J the information she wanted in a legible 
format. And I havent seen anything to cause me to say that itd be fair or reasonable to 
depart from our usual  approach to these types of complaints by requiring the bank to give 
Miss J the information she wants in the particular format shes requested.
I recognise that Miss J feels  this matter has caused her significant distress.  When  looking at 
the correspondence between her and NatWest, it seems the communication  broke  down due 
to the service she felt shed received  in branch. And I think NatWest were  unclear as to what  
information Miss J was asking for because theyd already sent the transaction statements to 
her which detailed all the information it felt Miss J was asking for. Having said this, as Ive 
explained above, I dont feel NatWest failed  to give Miss J the information shed asked for. 
And I think its understandable why it wasnt clear to the bank what Miss J need in addition  to 
what shed already been given  which was to have  this information in a particular  format.  
But I do think it tried to establish this.
Further, I think its important to recognise  that NatWest  still sought to provide alternatives  to 
Miss J where this was appropriate and also cooperated  with our service to try to assist by 
giving Miss J what she wanted in the format she wanted, even handwriting this at some  
points into a similar template. 
Ref: DRN25213383So, for the reasons set out above, I dont agree that NatWest needed to do more than it has 
already done in this matter. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint against  NatWest or 
require it to do anything  to put things  right.
I know Miss J will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with NatWest  can do for her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2521338