K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) had the wrong address 
for them. They ask for compensation of about  £2,000 to £3,000.
background
Mr and Ms M have a mortgage  with Halifax. In late 2017 they found  out that Halifax  had the 
wrong address  for them. As a result, they hadnt  been receiving letters  about  changes to 
their interest rate and often found  they couldnt  pass security to speak to Halifax by phone. 
Mr and Ms M say theyve experienced financial hardship. In October 2017 Halifax  offered  
them a better interest rate for their mortgage  and they think  this would have happened 
sooner if Halifax had sent information to the correct address.
Mr and Ms M raised  a complaint. They say Halifax hasnt  provided the information they 
asked for. They say it sent letters  to a Lloyds branch and might have breached data 
protection laws.
Halifax accepted  it had the wrong  address for Mr and Ms M some years. It refunded  about  
£530 of interest  and charges and offered £635  compensation. Mr and Ms M say this isnt 
enough.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said:
in late 2017  Halifax contacted Mr and Ms M and offered  a lower interest rate to help 
them reduce the arrears  on their mortgage account. While Mr and Ms M say they might  
have been able to switch to a product with a better interest rate sooner, this wasnt  the 
case. Halifax didnt  previously allow customers in arrears  to take out fixed  rate products. 
Halifaxs records show it had a number  of telephone discussions with them  about their 
arrears. So its not reasonable to say Mr and Ms M hadnt been able to discuss  their 
account with Halifax.
Halifax sent letters to a branch. This was an error, but theres  nothing  to suggest 
information was disclosed outside the banking group. If Mr and Ms M remained 
concerned that Halifax had breached  data protection laws they could  contact the 
Information Commissioners Office.  
the compensation offered by Halifax was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Ms M didnt agree. Ms M said they didnt know  Halifax was using the wrong address. 
When they visited their branch, they were  told the address was correct.  
Ms M said Halifaxs  error  compounded their financial difficulties. She said their current  
account and three credit  card accounts were  also affected. Ms M said their current account 
wasnt in arrears when  the error with the address  began  and the overdraft debt was due in 
large part to the fees applied while they didnt  receive statements and thought the account 
was dormant. 
Ref: DRN21540382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
When Mr and Ms M brought their complaint to us, it was about the problems  theyd 
experienced with their mortgage account. Theyve since said that they also had problems 
with a current account and several credit card accounts. Our investigator explained that 
under our rules we cant  consider  these issues as part of this complaint. Mr and Ms M said 
they understood this and had already raised  separate complaints with Halifax about these 
other accounts. 
So in this decision, I will consider Mr and Ms Ms concerns about their mortgage  account.
What happened?
Theres no doubt that Halifax made  an error here. It had the wrong address for Mr and Ms M 
for some years. It was sending correspondence to a Lloyds branch. The reason for the error  
isnt known. 
Ms M provided  a letter dated August 2011  addressed to her at a Lloyds branch. Evidence  
provided by Halifax  shows Ms Ms address was changed  to this address in August 2011 and 
then changed  back to the correct address a few days later. Her address was changed to the 
branch address again in August 2012. This time it wasnt corrected until October 2017.
Halifaxs records show it had the wrong address for Mr M from August 2011 to May 2015.  
However, its provided copies of letters  from 2013 sent to Mr M at the correct address. 
Halifaxs records show it applied an arrears management fee to Mr and Ms Ms mortgage 
account in July 2011. So the mortgage account was in arrears before the error with the 
address. 
Halifaxs records show it was in contact  with Mr and Ms M about the mortgage account from 
mid 2012. Mr and Ms M say they received  some  correspondence  for instance about 
payment arrangements  for their mortgage   at their address. 
What should happen now?
Halifax made an error here. So I have to decide  what compensation is fair and reasonable. 
In doing so, Ive taken  the following into account:
Mr and Ms Ms mortgage account  was in arrears before the error with their address.  So I 
dont think this was the reason the account fell into arrears. Halifaxs records  show  it had 
a number of telephone  discussions with them  about their arrears.  So Mr and Ms M were  
in contact with, and able to discuss their mortgage account with, Halifax.  
In late 2017  Halifax contacted Mr and Ms M and offered  a lower interest rate to help 
them reduce their arrears.  Halifax says until late 2017 it wouldnt  have  offered a fixed  
Ref: DRN21540383rate product  to Mr and Ms M because their account was in arrears. So I dont think the 
error with Mr and Ms Ms address meant they missed  out on a better interest rate. 
Halifax sent letters intended for Mr and Ms M to a Lloyds branch. I havent seen 
anything to suggest information  was disclosed outside the Lloyds group. If Mr and Ms M 
remain concerned  that Halifax breached data protection laws they could contact the 
Information Commissioners Office.  
In their response to the investigators view, Mr and Ms M said they have proof that 
Halifaxs error with their address impacted their credit file and compounded their 
problems. I asked  Mr and Ms M to provide this. Unfortunately, theyve been unable  to 
provide this evidence.  
I havent seen  evidence that Halifaxs error caused  Mr and Ms M financial loss. However, 
Ive no doubt its caused them upset and inconvenience. Halifax refunded  £533 of fees and 
additional interest applied since July 2011. Its offered £635 compensation. I think, in the 
circumstances, this is fair and reasonable. While Mr and Ms M have  asked for compensation 
of £2,000 to £3,000 I dont  think it would be reasonable to require Halifax  to pay this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that the compensation offered by 
Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2154038