K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Mr C 
says Bank  of Scotland trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr C bought a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2002.  TMPP can be split into 
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical 
illness cover.  Mr C complained about  the PPI so Ive looked  at the sale of the PPI cover only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr C aware that the PPI policy was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding the PPI to his mortgage. Mr C has told us that he was told he had to take the PPI. 
There isnt much paperwork  available  from the sale of the policy, but from what we know  
about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax would have 
presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr Cs consent before adding it to his mortgage.
 
So overall I think Halifax made it clear that Mr C didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policy  to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr C has told us he was entitled  to sick pay when he took the PPI and had other 
benefits through his employer. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Cs sick pay 
and for longer. It would also have paid out in circumstances  that his other benefits wouldnt 
have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Ref: DRN21807182Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2180718