K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that her business protection insurance policy  was mis-sold by Beddington  
Insurance Services (Wim) Ltd as it didnt include all the cover she required for her business.
background
Mrs L runs a business that provides  beauty treatments. She has had insurance for the 
business, including cover for public liability, for a number of years. 
In December 2017, a customer was injured  during a procedure.  In March 2018,  Mrs L 
received notification from the customers  solicitors that she was pursuing a personal  injury 
claim. So Mrs L made a claim on her public liability insurance. But the insurer  declined  the 
claim, saying  she wasnt  covered for this type of treatment. 
Mrs L then complained to Beddington. She said she had given Beddington her business  card 
setting out all the beauty treatments she carries  out and it should have arranged a policy  for 
her that covered  all of these  including the treatment that the claim related to. 
Beddington didnt agree it had mis-sold  the policy. It said Mrs L had first taken out a policy  in 
2013 and at that time, it went through the quotation which  asked questions  about the 
business. Cover for treatment risks was included with six additional  treatments being  added 
to the standard list, but these didnt include the treatment that had led to the claim. 
Beddington said Mrs L never asked for that to be included.
When Mrs L complained  to this service,  our investigator initially  said that from 2013 onwards, 
Mrs Ls policy had included the standard treatments and the six additional  treatments but no 
more. And she said Mrs L never  contacted Beddington between 2013 and 2016  to say the 
cover wasnt  right.  The investigator thought  there was a mis-sale at the renewal in 2017 
because the policy changed at that point and didnt  include all the treatment types that had 
previously been  included. But she said even if that error hadnt happened and Mrs L had 
been given the same cover as before, it still wouldnt have included the treatment that had 
led to this claim  because that had never  been  included.
Mrs L is being supported  in bringing  this complaint by her husband,  Mr C. In reply  to the 
investigator he said if Beddington had done its job properly it would have noticed the cover 
was inadequate  and looked for a more suitable policy.  He said it hadnt  updated  the 
information it held for a number of years. And if Beddington  had asked about  the cover, he 
said they would have confirmed what treatments were being carried  out, and suitable cover  
could have been arranged. He questioned why Beddington sold a new policy that didnt even 
cover all the basic treatments. 
In reply to this, Beddington said that in 2017  Mrs L asked  for a cheaper policy as she was 
carrying out fewer treatments. So it found  the new policy, which provided less cover  and was 
cheaper. Beddington  said it did what was asked, and Mrs L had never said she was carrying  
out the particular treatment that led to the claim.  
After reviewing all the further comments,  our investigator didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. She said Mrs L had been sent the policy  schedules each year, which  showed which 
treatments were covered.  She said the treatment in question had never  been  covered, so it 
wasnt clear why Mrs L didnt raise this if she had always  carried  out this treatment. She 
thought Mrs L had a duty to tell Beddington  about which  treatments were  carried  out.
Ref: DRN27120672The investigator wasnt satisfied with Beddingtons explanation of what happened in 2017;  if 
a broker was reducing the cover she would expect a conversation to take place first. But as 
Mrs L had never mentioned this treatment she didnt think it would have been disclosed in 
2017. And in any event,  she said Mrs L had a legal duty to provide that information without 
waiting to be asked.  
Mrs L didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. Mr C made some further 
comments on her behalf, including:
They only received  the first policy documents in 2013. They accept they didnt check 
that document. But that was the only time this happened - they never received any 
policy documents after 2013. 
Mrs L is foreign and English is not her first language. She gave Beddington her 
business card which  set out the treatments in black and white.
Beddington  should have reviewed things properly in 2017 but it did not, and that left 
them with a policy that didnt even cover  the basic treatments. If a review had been  
carried out, the treatment in question would have been disclosed. Its stated on the 
business card and has never been hidden.
The latest policy is misleading as it said it was including treatment risks but didnt 
cross refer to the exclusions.
This is a complaint  from a business  but Mrs L is effectively a sole practitioner and 
that should be taken into account.
Before reaching a conclusion, I asked both parties  for some comments  about  what 
happened at the renewal  in 2017.
Beddington says instructions were  taken at a face to face meeting; Therapy Beauty only had 
standard treatments  covered and said they wanted a cheaper policy;  it acted on this basis  
and found a cheaper policy.  Beddington  also says the treatment in question  is not standard  
or basic  if Therapy Beauty had said they were undertaking specialist treatments it would 
have reacted accordingly, but they didnt. Beddington says it relied on the information  
provided at the time.
Mr C is adamant that Mrs L provided her business  card  he says that would have been a 
natural thing to do, as it set out the treatments  she carried out. He also says 
she understood the new policy  would  cover the relevant treatments as set out on her 
business card;
the treatment in question is something  she has always done, and its not particularly 
unusual or complex;
its not clear how Beddington can recall the discussion without  having  detailed notes;
the new cover doesnt even  include  basic treatments but does include other activities  
that are irrelevant to her business;
it must  be more likely that Beddington didnt  have proper regard for the cover the new 
policy actually provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L complains  that the policy was mis-sold  to her, because it didnt provide all the cover 
she needed. And because of this, shes not covered for a claim made against her by one of 
Ref: DRN27120673her customers. The policy  in question is the one she had from September 2017.  But shes  
had cover through Beddington since 2013 and to understand what  happened in 2017 its 
necessary to look back at the earlier events.
The policies Mrs L has had all include cover for public liability.  The standard  cover is for 
claims arising out of accidents. But its possible to include cover for treatments  as an 
optional extension to the policy. And Mrs L has always had this extension  since  2013.
When Mrs L took out the first policy in 2013,  the optional extension provided cover  for 
certain, more basic, treatments. But she could also add other treatments  from a drop  down 
list. That list included the treatment that led to this claim. But she didnt choose to include 
this. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis, meaning Beddington  wasnt making a 
recommendation that this particular policy was suitable. But even so, it still had a duty to give 
Mrs L appropriate information so that she could make an informed decision about  what  she 
was buying. She should have been given  information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
From what  Ive seen, the policy simply renewed each year between  2013 and 2016 and the 
documents were  much the same. I think information was clear and set out what was 
covered. In particular, the schedule listed the six additional  treatments  added  to the optional 
extension. So it was clear which treatments were  covered. And the treatment that led to the 
claim wasnt listed. Mrs L accepts that she received the policy  documents in 2013  and didnt 
check them.  She says she didnt receive the documents the following years. Beddington 
says the documents were sent to her. Even if she didnt  receive  them, she could have 
requested copies. I think its reasonable to expect  someone to check their policy  documents  
each year  and to request a copy if they havent received them.
Things changed in September  2017,  when Beddington sold a different policy. As with the 
previous policy, there was public liability cover for claims  arising  out of accidents,  and an 
optional extra cover for claims relating to treatments given to customers. But with this policy, 
fewer treatments were covered. Beddington says this is because Mrs L said she was 
providing fewer treatments and she wanted a cheaper policy. So it wasnt providing  a like for 
like policy.
Again, this wasnt an advised sale.  But as with the earlier sales, Id still expect Mrs L to be 
given appropriate,  clear information  to enable her to make an informed  choice about  whether 
to take out this new policy.
And, as with the previous  policies, I think the information provided was clear.  The policy 
schedule confirms that treatments risks  has been chosen as an optional  extension.  The 
schedule doesnt  list the treatments covered. But these are set out clearly  in the policy  
terms. Mr C says this was only listed  in page  83 of the document.  But the schedule shows  
that the only optional extension included  was treatment costs.  There is an index at the 
beginning of the policy document which lists the optional extension and gives the page  
number. So its not difficult  to go straight  to that section and see whats covered.
Our investigator agreed with Beddington that Mrs L had a duty to give a fair presentation of 
the risk and should have explained  which treatments she was carrying out. It wasnt for 
Beddington to ask her about  this. She also noted  that Beddington  asked  Mrs L to check the 
policy to ensure it was suitable and she didnt tell them that it wasnt,  and renewed it on the 
same terms  in 2014, 2015 and 2016.  So she wasnt satisfied Mrs L made a fair presentation 
Ref: DRN27120674of the risk  if she had explained that this treatment was being carried  out, she would have 
been insured for it from the outset.
Its correct that for commercial customers like Mrs L, there is a duty to make  a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer. But that duty was introduced  by the Insurance  Act 
2015. So it didnt  apply before then. The law in place previously  required Mrs L to act with 
utmost good  faith.  In my judgment, the end result  is much the same;  it was for Mrs L to be 
clear about  the type of work she was carrying out and what she wanted to be covered for. 
Mrs L says she gave  her business  card to Beddington at the outset, and that showed what 
types of treatments she carried out. But the treatment in question  was an option she could 
have selected  in 2013. She didnt do that  and when she received the policy documents  
showing it wasnt included, she didnt question that. As Ive said,  if she didnt receive 
documents in the following years, she could have requested them. She was given clear 
information about her policy and didnt  question this at any time.
I appreciate that Mrs L is a sole trader and may not be familiar with every aspect of 
insurance. And if cover isnt provided, that will be difficult  for her. If this was an advised  sale,  
Id expect Beddington to assess Mrs Ls needs  carefully and consider the policy to ensure it 
met those  needs before  recommending it to her. But this wasnt an advised sale.  
Beddingtons duty was to provide clear information  to Mrs L, so she could  see what  cover  
the policy provided and decide  whether she wanted  it. 
Taking into account all the circumstances, it seems to me that Beddington did this; as Ive 
set out above,  I think the policy documents are clear. And Mrs L never questioned them.  
There is a list of treatments and by reading  that list, Mrs L could see which  treatments are 
covered. If the new policy didnt even cover basic treatments, its not clear why she didnt 
query this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2712067