K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the high premiums charged by Saga Services Limited for his home 
insurance, and with Saga taking an unagreed increased premium  from his account.
background
In 2015 Mr P complained to Saga about  his home  insurance premium, which had gone up by 
14%. He had been given  a price of £1,326.92  and Saga had offered a £65 customer loyalty 
discount. Whilst he was still in dispute over the figure, Saga took a premium of £3,026.92  
from his account. When  he noticed this he asked  to cancel the policy  and Saga refunded the 
premium taken. It offered  him £300  compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused. 
Saga explained  that Mr Ps property had been  re-rated as it had noticed  that the property 
was listed and this hadnt been  reflected  in the premium. It confirmed that this was its 
mistake, as in 2009 the policy had moved  to its multi insurer  product and the listed  status 
hadnt been moved across at the same time. It said it would still have  honoured the price  
given to Mr P and he would have remained  covered for the previous period. He obtained 
insurance elsewhere at a much lower price.
On referral to this service  we asked Saga for information on the hypothetical premiums if the 
listed status hadnt been dropped off its records. Saga said that as Mr P had had a serious 
flood claim (in 2001),  it was likely that the insurers on its panel would have refused cover. 
But it calculated likely  premiums at over £4,400  for buildings  and £330  for contents.
Our adjudicator said that it was likely in 2009 that faced with such  a large increase in 
premium Mr P would  have sought insurance  elsewhere. By selling him a policy that didnt  
note his propertys  listed status it had missold  a policy to Mr P for 5 years. He proposed that 
Saga refund the difference in the premiums charged over that period and £700.
For the inconvenience and upset caused to Mr P by the withdrawal of the increased  
premium from his account, our adjudicator proposed that Saga pay £350 compensation
Saga didnt agree and pointed out that by not noting his property  as listed,  Mr P had got 
reduced price cover. Any claim  would still have been  covered 
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements  to this complaint  Saga taking an unagreed premium from Mr Ps 
bank account,  and the amount of the premiums themselves  over the years.
taking the premium
Its clear that, while Mr P was discussing the amount of the premium with Saga, not only did 
it take the full premium  from his account, as it was on automatic renewal, but unknown to 
Mr P, it had rerated the policy. So instead  of a premium of £1,326.92, it took a premium  of 
£3,026.92. Saga said it had done this as its policy administration  team  had found that the 
Ref: DRN20257862fact of it being a listed property  hadnt been  noted  on the policy.  It recalculated the premium, 
but failed to tell Mr P before  taking the revised  premium from his account.
Clearly this was a serious mistake.  The increased  premium should have been notified  to 
Mr P, and as he was disputing the premium, any attempt at automatic renewal should have 
been stopped. Also, as the premium for the policy had already been  quoted  Saga wasnt  
entitled to unilaterally increase it, especially at it had been  at fault.
I note that Mr P regards  this as theft and/or  fraud. We have advised  him that it doesnt come 
within our remit  to make findings of criminal  conduct,  which  are matters  for the courts  or the 
police. I think its more  likely to be an error on Sagas part, although  I dont seek  to excuse it. 
And I do take account of the serious upset this would have caused to Mr P. I also note that 
Saga chose to refund  the money by cheque,  rather than a straight  transfer. Taking that into 
account and Mr Ps circumstances, I do think that the £350  proposed  compensation is 
reasonable. I appreciate that Mr P would like more for the way this made him feel and thinks  
that Saga should be punished.  But our awards are intended to compensate, not penalise. 
And having taken  into account his personal circumstances, I still think  this is the appropriate 
amount of compensation.
cost of the policies
Ive considered the underwriting information  that Saga has provided. I think, in light of the 
property being  listed and having had a serious flood  claim, Saga wouldnt have had available 
any other policy. And Mr P had clearly told Saga that his property was listed  it was entirely  
the fault of its system that it wasnt rated  properly from 2009 onwards. But the price  didnt go 
down that year, it rose until 2012,  then went down for 2013 and 2014, then went  up again. 
So Mr P couldnt  possibly have known that his property was being wrongly rated.
The underwriting information  shows that its unlikely that Mr P would have been offered a 
policy through Saga from 2009  onwards. If he had it would have been at a substantial 
premium of more than £4,400. Saga argues that Mr P has had the benefit  of a reduced  
premium. But it was still a high premium, which I think Mr P likely put up with because  of his 
propertys history and status. I also think it fair to say that he was very concerned  about the 
increase in premium  for 2015  and had he known the true cost of the policy (or been told 
Saga couldnt offer him a policy), he would  have looked elsewhere  sooner than he did. 
Mr P obtained cover  for £636.03 in 2015,  rising to £706.45 in 2018.  Whilst I appreciate  that 
we dont know what he would have been charged in 2009, I think it fair to put a base price for 
the policy at £700. We dont  know if a flood claim from 2001  wouldve affected any policy  
very much in 2009, but considering the premiums it has so far charged Mr P, I think it fair to 
say that thats  unlikely.  This also takes account  of any introductory  discount. I think  a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for it to pay for the loss that Mr P is likely to have 
suffered would be the difference  between the premiums from 2010 to 2014 inclusive, and 
£700, plus interest.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Saga Services Limited to:
refund  to Mr P the differences between £700 and the premiums he paid for the 2010  
to 2014 renewals inclusive together with simple interest* at 8% a year from the date 
he paid each premium  until the date it repays  him.
Ref: DRN20257863pay £350 compensation to Mr P for the inconvenience and upset caused to him.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Saga to take tax off any interest it pays to Mr P. Should  
Mr P request  it, Saga  should give Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken off so 
he can reclaim  it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2025786