K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which Mrs 
and Mr P say Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold  to them.
background
Our adjudicator said this complaint shouldnt  be upheld. But Mrs and Mr P disagreed and the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint.
Mrs and Mr P took out a joint mortgage in 1991  and were sold MPPI at the same time. So 
these events are from over 27 years ago and neither party has been able to send me any 
hard documentation form the time of the sale. From Nationwides computerised archives, 
we now know the mortgage itself ended  in 1995, also quite a while  ago.
Perhaps not surprisingly then, there  is very little information indeed  to look at in this case. 
Mrs and Mr P now say they felt pressured  into buying the MPPI as this was their first ever 
mortgage. They also say they didnt need  it.
I dont doubt that Mrs and Mr Ps feelings  about  being mis-sold the cover are genuinely  held. 
But given the age of this case  and the lack of information, I can only look at what  is more  
likely to have happened.
For example, Im not able to confirm that Mrs and Mr P properly consented to the policy 
being added to their mortgage. But as with most other pieces of information relating to this 
case, theres as much  to say they did consent  - as there is to say they didnt. Ive seen some 
examples of Nationwide mortgage application forms from that time period and generally, my 
experience is that we are able to see either direct or supporting evidence showing that 
consumers agreed  and were aware, before any MPPI was added. 
I also note that a principal  point  of Mrs and Mr Ps complaint is that they didnt think they 
needed this type of cover because Mrs P had a public sector job which had good  sickness 
protection. However, Nationwide  pointed out that although this was a joint mortgage, the PPI 
cover was only set up to protect Mr P; Mrs P wasnt  named  on the policy. 
Mrs P told us she doesnt remember this and was under the impression both she and her 
husband were  covered.  But this perhaps  demonstrates how difficult it is to remember  the 
events of so long ago. To me, that they chose a policy covering only Mr P, suggests  that 
they were thinking  about what they wanted to do. And it looks  very much like Mrs Ps need 
for MPPI cover was significantly less than Mr Ps. So I think this is probably why they opted 
for cover just for him.
Ref: DRN28987382Mr P appears to have  been eligible for the cover and I dont think  would have been caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  The cost seems  affordable  
for them and consistent  with other  MPPI Ive seen from that time. In the event of a 
successful claim, the policy would pay out a monthly  benefit for up to two years.
I think Mrs and Mr Ps mortgage would have been a significant and long-term  financial 
commitment for them. The consequences of not being able to make the repayments could 
have had serious consequences, so overall I can see how the policy was of use and suitable 
for them.
I cant say Nationwide  did everything right or supplied all the information it ought to have 
done. But on balance,  I think its more likely  they agreed to the cover and that it was of use 
in their situation. I dont  think  theres enough for me to say it was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint and I dont direct 
Nationwide Building  Society to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2898738