K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage  with Lloyds, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester. 
They also took out a monthly  premium PPI policy, which  would pay benefits if either or both 
of them  were off work ill or injured or lost their job. 
Lloyds records show that the mortgage  was paid off in 2007, and the PPI cancelled. But Mr 
and Mrs F complain  that the policy had been  mis-sold.  Among other things, they say they 
werent given a choice and they feel they didnt really need PPI.
Our adjudicators didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs F dont agree, so 
its come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
I dont have much clear information  about how the PPI was sold,  but Mr and Mrs F think  it 
was during a meeting and thats  probably right. But after so many years there are no records 
available now to show me what, if anything was discussed about PPI. So I have to decide 
what I think is most likely  to have happened, based  on what Mr and Mrs F have been  able to 
remember and what Lloyds has told us about  its usual sales process at that time, as well as 
the limited paperwork  that Ive been  given.
Having done that, Ive concluded on balance that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
were Mr and Mrs F given  a fair choice? 
Ive seen the application form for PPI which Mr and Mrs F signed, separately from their 
mortgage application. In it they indicated they wanted PPI cover,  split equally between them. 
Mr F also signed a direct  debit instruction to pay for the PPI. So although  theyve said they 
got the impression  the two were  intrinsically  linked,  I think they wouldve  known  PPI was a 
separate product from the mortgage.  And the application shows  that they agreed to have it. 
Mr and Mrs F feel they werent given a proper choice about whether to have the PPI - or at 
least were led to believe that taking it out would improve  their chances of getting the loan. 
Thats possible. As Ive said, I cant be sure what was discussed. But Lloyds tells us that as 
part of its normal sales procedure its adviser wouldve been required to make Mr and Mrs F 
aware that the PPI was optional. It may be that he or she didnt follow  that usual process on 
this occasion.  But Ive seen nothing which shows me clearly that this is what happened.
Mr and Mrs F say they got the mortgage offer a relatively short time after applying for the 
policy, after not at first applying for PPI. It may well be that the mortgage offer followed a 
period of discussion, including about  PPI, during which  Lloyds had encouraged them to 
Ref: DRN24670212consider having  PPI. But Ive not seen  anything to show me that the success of their 
mortgage application wouldve depended  on taking out PPI, or that Lloyds led them to think 
that it would. Mr and Mrs F have asked too whether the adviser who sold them  the policy  
wouldve got commission for doing so. Lloyds has told us that he or she wouldnt have done.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs F have said.  And I cant  be sure exactly  what took 
place. But I think its more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs F were given a choice and opted to 
have the PPI, even  if understandably  they dont remember that now, many years later. And it 
hasnt in my view been clearly shown  that Lloyds put them under unfair  pressure to buy it.
were Mr and Mrs F given  good enough advice and information?
From what  Ive been told, its possible Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. If so, 
that meant  Lloyds had to check the PPI was suitable for them. I dont  know what, if any steps 
it took to do this. But based on what Ive been  told about their situation at the time, I think  it 
was suitable. Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have been affected by any of the main exclusions to, or 
limits on, the PPI cover and as I explain  below,  to my mind  it couldve been helpful for them. 
But Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs F good enough information about the cost, benefits  
and main features  of the PPI, so they could  fairly  decide whether or not to take it out.
As Ive said there are no records now of what was discussed about PPI at the time, if 
anything, or of what paperwork  they were given  and when. So I dont know what  Mr and Mrs 
F had read or been told about the policy before they agreed to have it. Its possible the 
information theyd  got wasnt as clear  or full as it shouldve been.  Mr and Mrs F certainly  feel 
that it wasnt. But on balance, in my view its unlikely that having better information wouldve 
changed their decision.  I think Mr and Mrs F would  probably still have taken out the PPI. 
Thats because from what Ive been told about their circumstances, and looking at the terms 
of the policy  they took out, I think Mr and Mrs F were  eligible for it. I dont think they wouldve 
been affected by any of the main things  the PPI didnt cover.  I think it couldve proved useful. 
And Ive not been shown that it was unaffordable for them  at that time.
Mr and Mrs F say they had secure  jobs with good employee benefits, so they feel they didnt 
need PPI. And Ive thought about  that. But I think it couldve  still been  helpful for them. The 
PPI benefits couldve  lasted for up to 12 months at a time - longer than their full sick pay - 
and wouldve been paid on top of any sick pay or redundancy payment they got, at what  
wouldve likely been a difficult  time for them.  Theyve told us Mrs F didnt make  a claim on 
the policy in the particular  circumstances when she was later made redundant, but that 
doesnt mean it wasnt right for them when they took it out.
And although when they applied for the PPI in 2004  Mr and Mrs F had some  shares  and 
cash savings, the PPI wouldve left these intact  for the future. To my mind  the fact that they 
seemingly chose not to use these  to reduce the amount  they were  borrowing suggests thats 
something they wanted to do. I dont  think their savings made the PPI unsuitable or meant  
that it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to have recommended it, if indeed Lloyds did so.
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs F were borrowing a large sum for potentially a 
long time,  secured on their home. So the effect  of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been very serious for them - especially  as theyve told us they had young children 
to look after.  The PPI was paid for monthly,  so its cost didnt add to their borrowing or attract  
Ref: DRN24670213interest. And they could cancel it at any time, without further cost, if their situation  changed  
or they felt they no longer wanted it. 
I know Mr and Mrs F feel strongly  and have put time and effort into their complaint. Ive 
thought carefully  about everything they and their representatives have  told us, including  after 
their subject access request to Lloyds. I realise theyll  be disappointed at the outcome. And 
its difficult to decide  a case like this, where  the available  information  about the sale of the 
PPI is quite limited. But Ive had to do the best I can to decide what probably  happened.
Mr and Mrs F have  also pointed  out that this service has upheld  a number of other PPI mis-
sale complaints against  Lloyds.  But we look at each complaint on its own particular  facts  and 
merits. And having weighed up all that Ive read and been told about this sale,  on balance  I 
dont think I can fairly  and reasonably say that the PPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. So Lloyds Bank PLC 
doesnt have to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467021