K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement esure Insurance Limited offered him under  his motor 
insurance policy after his car was stolen. He wants it to increase its offer.
background
Mr Ts car was stolen and esure offered him £24,596,  less his policy excess, in settlement of 
his claim.  It said this was the market value at the time of loss as established by the average 
of the two closest valuations offered by the motor trade guides. But Mr T said he thought his 
car was worth  £26,000 to £29,000. He thought  esure hadnt  taken into account the cars rare 
optional extras. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  esure 
had made  its valuation of the cars  market  value according to our approach. She thought  it 
had taken into account the cars specification and extras. So she thought esures settlement 
offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr T replied that hed like an ombudsman to review  his complaint. He said he couldnt afford 
to buy the same car for esures settlement. So his complaints come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration and disappointment with esures decision. I can 
understand that he wants the best possible offer for his car. 
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Our investigator thought esure had offered Mr T the market value of his car at the time of its 
loss, according to the policy  terms and conditions. She thought esure had correctly  
established the market value by consulting the motor trade  guides.  
Ive looked at these valuations provided  by the guides. I can see that they take into account 
the make, model, age, mileage and condition of Mr Ts car at the time of loss. I can also see 
that they take into account the cars  additional  specifications. esure offered Mr T the average 
of the two closest valuations provided  by the guides. I think this is fair and reasonable as its 
in keeping with our approach. 
Ref: DRN26397602Mr T provided evidence of cars similar to his own advertised for higher prices. But we dont 
find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
So I think the valuations  esure made to establish the market value of Mr Ts car were  done 
correctly according to our approach. I think its offer of the average of the two closest 
valuations provide by the guides was fair and reasonable.  So I dont require it to increase its 
offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2639760