K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about advice he received from BlackStar Wealth  Management Ltd in 
2015. It recommended that he transfer the benefits he held in a defined benefit  occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) into a self investment personal pension (SIPP).
background
Mr W was in his early  fifties. The accrued benefits in his OPS provided for a transfer value  of 
over £300,000. BlackStar recommended that he transfer the funds into a SIPP. This would 
have allowed Mr W to access benefits  at 55 which was noted as an objective. It also gave 
him control  over the funds  which was consistent with his wish to make  provision  for his 
daughter.
Mr W was assessed as having a meduim-high attitude to risk. A transfer  analysis prepared  
at the time noted that the critical yield required to match  the benefits of the OPS was 
13.85%.
Once the SIPP was arranged and the transfer took place another  business  was appointed as 
a discretionary fund manager. This second business  recommended  the specific  investment 
portfolio for Mr W. Mr W has suffered  losses as the portfolio included assets that have 
performed poorly  and some that have failed. The recommended portfolio didnt match  his 
attitude to risk.
Our adjudicator decided  that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Mr W was giving 
up guaranteed  future benefits and these benefits were his greatest asset.  The critical yield 
required to match the benefits he was giving up was 13.85%. This was high and meant that 
the strategy  to transfer was high risk and not suitable  for Mr W.
The adjudicator set out how redress should  be calculated. He said that BlackStar should 
compensate for the losses that flowed  from the transfer to the SIPP but not the losses that 
arose out of the portfolio. The investment portfolio  was recommended by the discretionary 
fund managers  and so it was responsible for the portfolio  losses.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It reiterated that Mr W wanted to access the benefits at 55 which  he 
couldnt do without  transferring out of the OPS. He wanted to pay off his mortgage and take 
control of the funds.  He had made it clear that he intended to retire  at 55 which  the transfer 
could have allowed  him to do.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with his reasoning. I uphold this complaint and Ill explain 
why.
It is apparent that Mr W had objectives  which meant  that accessing his pension  benefits and 
tax free cash before 60 was an attractive  option for him. But BlackStar  had a duty to act in 
his best interests  and only make recommendations that were  suitable for him. Im not 
Ref: DRN21709822satisfied that it was in Mr Ws best interest or suitable  for him to transfer out of the OPS. He 
was giving up guaranteed  future  benefits in exchange for benefits  that would depend upon 
investment and the associated risks.
The critical yield necessary to match the OPS  benefits was 13.85%  which could probably 
only be achieved by adopting a high risk investment  strategy. Im not satisfied that Mr W was 
a high risk investor.  He does not appear to have any great  investment  experience.  At the 
time of the advice  the only investments recorded were premium bonds.  
Mr Ws home was subject  to a mortgage as was a rental property he held. The pension was 
his greatest asset and Im not satisfied that he should have been advised to take this degree 
of risk with it. Whilst Mr W may have had a strong  desire to take benefits at 55, with suitable  
advice I think he would  have chosen not to transfer. 
putting things  right
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mr W, as far as possible,  into the position he would now be in but for 
the unsuitable advice.
BlackStar must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision. 
However, in the calculation, the actual value of the SIPP  should  not be used. This is 
because BlackStar was not responsible  for the investment portfolio recommended. 
Instead, a notional value should be calculated. This notional value should be the value that 
the SIPP would have had at the date of the calculation if the invested funds had performed in 
line with the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  Return  Index). This index reflects  a level of return 
that Mr W could  have  expected if the portfolio had been invested  in line with his attitude  to 
risk. The actual value  of the SIPP  cash account  should be used.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN21709823determination and money award : I require BlackStar to pay Mr W compensation as set out 
above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr W 
within 90 days of the date it receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes BlackStar to pay the compensation.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that BlackStar pays Mr W the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes it to pay Mr W from the date it receives  notification  of his acceptance  
of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr W accepts my determination,  the money award is binding on it. My recommendation is 
not binding. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
BlackStar should also pay Mr W £500  for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
inappropriate advice  to transfer benefits and the impact this has had on Mr Ws retirement  
planning. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd must calculate and pay redress 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2170982