K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains on behalf of her father  Mr D. He is unhappy with the way that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt  with his home insurance claim for water damage  to his property.
background
In April 2018 Ms D reported a claim to AXA. Her fathers property had suffered water 
damage due to a leak from a toilet cistern AXA arranged  for a loss adjuster  to visit the 
property. Subsequently  contractors were instructed to scope the works  for repair  and drying 
out was arranged. Ms D explained that Mr D was elderly and vulnerable and although he 
had another bathroom upstairs  it would  be a struggle for him.
Mr D found the noise and heat produced by the dehumidifiers  to be intolerable. It was 
agreed that as further strip out works would be required, Mr D would be put into alternative 
accommodation. This was a hotel, which he then stayed in from 24 June 2018 until 
4 January 2019.
The drying out was slow and a further  strip out had to be done. Eventually  the property was 
declared dry around  25 September.  However  the contractor wasnt  able to start repairs  until 
early November. Unfortunately Mr D suffered an accident at the hotel around  the end of 
November and had to spend  some  time in hospital.
It was expected that the works would be finished  in time for Christmas but there were some 
snagging and cleaning issues to be sorted out. Mr D was able to move  back  home around 
4 January 2019.
Ms D complained that her father had suffered a great deal of distress  and inconvenience. He 
had to live in an unsuitable hotel for over six months and because of his accident was no 
longer the independent person he was before the claim.  She had to do a lot of chasing 
around on his behalf  and there was a lack of communication. At times contractors turned up 
without Mr D being aware they were coming.  She further complained  that her request for a 
transfer of hotel was turned down. She further said that Mr D had been forced  to have his 
dog put in kennels and then to stay elsewhere without him.
AXA agreed that there had been  delays  and miscommunications. it recognised that Mr Ds 
vulnerability should have been  taken into account  at an earlier stage. It paid him £1,570  
disturbance allowance for having to stay in alternative accommodation and not having 
access to kitchen facilities.  It further paid him £700  for the upset and inconvenience suffered.
Ms D didnt think this was adequate and referred  Mr Ds complaint to this service. After  
review by our investigator, he advised  that he thought the compensation paid was 
appropriate. Ms D has raised further  snagging  issues, which  he said she should refer back  to 
AXA.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators  view and the matter  has been passed  to me for 
further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21094442delay/lack of communication
The claim does seem to have taken a long time to deal with. Normally drying out would  take 
up to two months, unless  as seems to be the case here further strip out is necessary. Even 
with that I think that a period of five months to complete the dry out is excessive. I believe 
during that time there were delays in arranging  the further strip outs. There was then a delay 
in arranging the repairs. Initially the contractor  was due to start on 31 October 2018. but due 
to illness  this had to be postponed. I can see too that it must have been very disappointing 
that Mr D expected to return before Christmas and wasnt able to do so because of delays in 
sorting out cleaning  and a snagging list.
Overall its been identified that this claim took around four months  longer than it should  have  
done, and I have taken that into account  in deciding,  below, what the appropriate 
compensation is.
I note that Ms D had to do a lot of chasing  around and contractors turned up without Mr D 
being advised in advance. As has been  explained  to Ms D we cant award compensation to 
her for her inconvenience  as shes not the policyholder. I can take account  of it in the way 
that it also caused inconvenience to Mr D.
hotel
Ms D says the hotel  wasnt  suitable  and she asked for Mr D to be transferred to another  
hotel. This was refused by AXA as the hotel was three  star and the proposed hotel was a 
four star luxury hotel.
Ive noted that the hotel Mr D was staying in was only one mile from his home and being 
close to home was important to him. Whilst its unfortunate that he subsequently had an 
accident at that hotel  I cant  see that it was unsuitable for his needs. Ideally when repairs go 
on for some time insurers look to see if a short let of a property might be available. But Ive 
noted that there were no such properties  available in Mr Ds local area.
In respect of his dog, again its unfortunate that Mr D couldn't  have his dog staying with him. 
But again  this was due to the lack of availability in the local area. Ive noted that the dog 
went into kennels for one week and then was looked  after for payment by Mr Ds cleaner. 
When advised of this cost AXA paid it in full. I think that was appropriate.
compensation
So I have  to decide whether the compensation paid to Mr D was appropriate. Unfortunately  
when there  is an insurance  claim like this it will cause  significant  inconvenience particularly 
for someone  in Mr Ds position.  But we would only expect an insurer  to pay compensation for 
the extra inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim. Here,  as Ive said Mr D might 
have reasonably expected the claim to have taken five months to resolve, but for various 
reasons it took nine months. And staying in hotel  for most of that time would have been very 
inconvenient.
I dont think I can hold AXA responsible in any way for Mr Ds accident. But I do note that it 
paid Mr D £1,570  disturbance allowance  to take account of the fact that he didnt have 
access to kitchen facilities during his hotel  stay, it seems to me that better  attention could 
have been given to Mr Ds needs  in the first place. Ive noted  however that Mr D has been 
Ref: DRN21094443paid £700 for his upset and inconvenience. I think that was fair, and is in line with awards  we 
have made  in similar cases. I wont therefore  be asking AXA to pay any more.
For the further snagging issues that Ms D advised  us about after she made her complaint, 
she should deal with AXA to get these resolved.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2109444