K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that it was irresponsible of NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to issue  a 
credit card to him with a £300 credit limit and then later to increase  that limit to £800.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Cs complaint in my provisional decision.  In that decision I 
explained why I was intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Below, Ill summarise the 
background and my provisional findings, so that all relevant is in this one decision.
Mr C opened a credit card account  with Aqua in December 2014.  His initial  credit  limit was 
£300 and in January 2017  Aqua increased this to £800. Mr C says that during this time he 
had high levels of debt,  he was only making  minimum repayments  and he was also 
struggling with a gambling addiction.
Mr C says Aqua acted irresponsibly and shouldnt have provided the credit. So he 
wants Aqua  to refund all interest  and charges applied to his account and to remove  any 
late payment markers and default markers from his credit file.
Mr C complained to Aqua but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that as part of its 
commitment to responsible lending it regularly reviews the way its customers use their 
cards and the way they manage  their other  credit  commitments to make risk- based 
assessments to ensure  it lends appropriately. It also said that Mr C was given  the 
opportunity to opt out of the credit  limit increase but hadnt done so.
Unhappy with Aquas response Mr C referred  his complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld. He thought  an initial  credit  limit 
of £300 was reasonable. In terms of the increase in the credit  limit, our adjudicator  thought 
Aqua had fairly addressed  the affordability  of the increase. He noted that Mr C had made 
his minimum payments in full and on time since the card was opened and hed also 
remained within his credit limit since May 2015. So he thought it was reasonable that an 
increase in his credit  limit was offered.
The adjudicator thought  Mr C had been  managing his credit card within the terms and 
conditions and he hadnt made  Aqua aware  that he was experiencing any financial 
difficulties or that he was struggling with gambling problems. His other accounts hadnt 
defaulted so he didnt think this should  have prevented Aqua from lending  to him. Our 
adjudicator thought the additional lending  was affordable because  his credit report showed 
his facilities were up to date or settled and Mr C hadnt missed a payment to Aqua.
The adjudicator noted that although  Mr C had used the card primarily for gambling  and 
cash transactions these  sorts of transactions werent  prohibited by the terms and conditions 
of his credit card account.
And in terms of removing  any negative entries on his credit report, our adjudicator 
couldnt see that Aqua  had recorded  any adverse information.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators view and the matter has been passed  to me for 
a decision.
Ref: DRN26826152In my provisional decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to make credit available  to Mr C, Aqua needed  to make proportionate 
checks to determine whether the credit  was affordable and sustainable for him. The 
checks are borrower focused  so Aqua  needed to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C.
Theres no prescribed list of checks  a lender should  make. What constitutes  a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of facts  including, the 
particular circumstances  of the consumer  for example  their financial history,  current 
situation and any indications of vulnerability  or financial  difficulty  and the amount and 
cost of the credit.
I havent seen anything to suggest  Mr C told Aqua about his financial difficulties or his 
gambling problem.  I can see that the card was mainly used for cash  advances  and gambling 
transactions but these sorts of transactions arent prohibited and as Mr C generally 
managed his credit card within  its limits I wouldnt expect Aqua to monitor the way Mr C 
chose to spend on his credit  card.  Whilst gambling  transactions are generally  considered  
by lenders to be higher risk they dont necessarily  preclude a lender from making credit or 
further credit  available to a borrower.
Aquas initial  decision  to provide Mr C with a credit  card
At the time of his credit card application, Mr C declared his income as £23,000 and he 
declared unsecured  debts  of £4,500. Aqua confirmed there were  no defaults recorded  
against Mr C and it conducted an affordability  check. Based on this I think Aquas 
decision to provide  a relatively modest credit limit of £300 was fair and reasonable.
Increase in credit limit in January 2017  from £300  to £800
Financial businesses must undertake a reasonable assessment  of a consumers credit 
worthiness before significantly increasing  the amount of credit  provided. As Aqua was more 
than doubling  Mr Cs credit limit I think this was a significant increase.
Aqua explained  to us that in deciding whether to increase a credit  limit it will take into 
account utilisation, account maintenance as well as information from credit references  
agencies and its own internal risk strategies.  At the time of the increases it said Mr C passed 
its affordability and financial difficulties checks. It said it also checked for over indebtedness, 
credit utilisation, arrears, CCJs and defaults using information from credit  reference 
agencies and these  met its requirements.
Aqua also had knowledge of the way Mr C managed  his account. I can see that Mr C had 
remained within his credit limit since May2015. However, during the time he had the 
account he only made minimum repayments. On its own I dont think  making only minimum 
payments would necessarily prevent Mr C from being considered  creditworthy.
Aqua provided information to our service to show the credit limit increase information it took 
into account. At the time his credit limit was increased Mr Cs overall credit card 
Ref: DRN26826153indebtedness had increased to more than £20,000.  I think  this level of debt is high in 
relation to the salary  hed previously declared.
And the information  provided by Aqua also shows Mr Cs payday loans increased greatly 
in the three  month period prior to his credit  limit being increased.
Taken together, I dont think it was obvious  that Mr C could  afford the increase in his credit 
limit. And I therefore  think Aqua  should have undertaken further checks  into Mr Cs 
financial circumstances to ensure the increase in lending was affordable for him.
I dont  think the increased  credit  limit of £800  was affordable  for Mr C and Aqua failed 
to identify this so I think it should  refund all interest and charges applied  to Mr Cs credit  
card balance above £300.  However,  as Mr C has had the benefit of the money I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Aqua to write  off his debt.
Finally Ive thought  about whether  or not to award  compensation to Mr C for trouble 
and upset caused. I dont consider it would be appropriate to do so because although  he 
never asked  for his credit limit to be increased  I think  he could have done  more  to help 
himself by not using  the card beyond  the initial £300 limit or by telling  Aqua he didnt want 
the increase because of his financial difficulties.
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold  this 
complaint. I am intending to direct NewDay Ltd to put Mr C in the financial position he 
would have been in if his credit limit hadnt been  increased to £800 as follows:-
   refund interest and charges applied to Mr Cs account above the £300 credit  limit 
and rework  his credit card account.  Any such refund  should  be applied  to reduce 
Mr Cs credit card balance. If NewDay deducts income tax from this it must  provide 
the necessary  certificate  to Mr C.
   NewDay  should check for any periods when Mr Cs payments would have been 
enough to clear  his balance and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple  
interest on any periods  he would  have been in credit  up until the date he would 
have owed  money on his credit  card account again.
   reduce Mr Cs credit limit to £300 and remove any adverse credit  reporting 
from his credit file relating  to the balance above this amount.
   any remaining balance above the limit of £300 should be held in a separate 
account and Mr C should be permitted to repay  that separately.  No interest or 
charges should be applied  to that separate  balance.
    NewDay should explain to Mr C how it has recalculated the above amounts and 
how he can repay any balance held on the separate account.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  acknowledged receipt  of my provisional decision but neither party  provided any 
further comments for my consideration.
Ref: DRN26826154my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for my consideration I cant  see any 
reason to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and to put matters  right NewDay  Ltd 
should act in line with what Ive set out in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2682615