K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a series of payments made using  
his debit card and which he says he neither made nor authorised.
Background
Mr S was out with friends on the night of 9 January 2019. At some  point during the evening,  
he lost his debit  card. He continued with his night out, using his mobile to pay for food and 
drink. He reported the card lost or stolen the following afternoon. He realised that there had 
been transactions on his account totalling £895  and he disputed these. He later realised 
theyd been a further withdrawal of £10 which he also disputed. The bank investigated and 
credited his account with £895.  
A few days  later, Mr S realised theyd  also been a cash withdrawal of £1,100 from his 
savings account.  The bank investigated  this and re-opened its earlier investigation. As a 
result, it decided none of the transactions were  fraudulent and it re-debited Mr Ss account 
with £895.
Following his complaint,  the bank apologised that it had made  some  mistakes with its initial 
investigation and offered  to pay Mr S £150  for the inconvenience caused. But it wouldnt 
refund the disputed  transactions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
Mr S must have  authorised the transactions because the person using the card knew  his PIN 
and his date of birth and there didnt seem  to be a point of compromise for either of these.
Mr S didnt agree. He said,  in summary, that:
His date of birth was on social media.
He used the same  PIN for his phone and his debit card and a third party may have seen 
him unlocking his phone.
The CCTV  from the supermarket where  the transactions took place  show it wasnt  him.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory as some of it is here,  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Im satisfied the disputed  transactions  were  made  using Mr Ss genuine card,  rather  than a 
copy of it. That is of course consistent  with him losing it during the course of the night. So 
while I accept Mr S lost his card, I need to look at the wider circumstances to decide  
whether Barclays should  be held liable  for the transactions  here.
Ref: DRN21893862The information Ive been provided  with shows that Mrs Ss genuine card and PIN were  
used for the transactions. The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card itself, and its 
unlikely that anyone  would have been  able to guess  it.
The bank says that there  was no obvious point of compromise of the PIN. And I think  thats 
right. Mr S withdrew cash from an ATM using chip and PIN at 8.42pm that evening. Its 
also likely that he made a balance enquiry at 1.44am, again using chip and PIN. Its 
possible someone could  have watched  Mr S entering the PIN at some point  especially if 
it was during the 1.44am  transaction  when Mr S had been  drinking   he may not have 
been as careful  as usual at shielding his PIN. But, in my view,  thats not very likely.  If 
someone observed his PIN, that person  would  also have had to obtain  Mr Ss debit card. 
Mr S cant  be sure when his card went missing   but he says it was definitely before he 
went to buy food at 01.54am. So if someone was successful at seeing  his PIN at 01.44am 
and then got hold of the card shortly  afterwards, I think its highly  unlikely that they would 
have waited four hours before trying to use it  the first disputed  transaction  was after a 
balance enquiry at 6.08am.
Mr S says he uses the same PIN number to unlock his mobile phone and someone may 
have seen him doing this. But, again,  it seems  unlikely  that someone  obtained  his card,  
guessed his PIN was the same number as the code he used to unlock his phone, had 
seen him use that number  to unlock his phone, and then waited four hours  to use the card.
Two of the disputed  transactions completed  using one of the banks assisted service 
devices were over £300. As well as needing  the cards PIN, these  transactions couldnt be 
completed without Mr Ss date of birth. Although  Mr S says this information may have been 
available by accessing his social media,  the card only includes his surname and initials.  So 
I think it would have  been difficult for someone  to find this out quickly when they were part 
way through a transaction.
This leaves  the most likely explanation  that Mr S consented to the transactions  by either 
carrying them out himself,  or by allowing  someone else to.
I cant completely rule out the possibility  that events unfolded as Mr S has described. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think thats  likely. I believe his recollection of that night 
is unreliable  by his own admission he had been drinking and cant  remember everything 
that happened. I think it more likely than not that he carried  out the disputed  transactions or 
authorised an unknown third party to do so. I havent seen the CCTV recording that Mr S 
refers to, but what it shows doesnt change my conclusion  because Ive found it likely that 
Mr S consented to the transactions. For those reasons, it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays 
to refund them.
Barclays says if its initial  investigation had been  more thorough,  it wouldnt have credited Mr 
Ss account with £895. Its apologised and offered to pay Mr S £150. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN21893863My final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay Mr S £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2189386