K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  misinformed  them when 
they withdrew the Customer  Payment Allocation (CPA)  facility  on their mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs O would like greater compensation than the £150 that Halifax  offered. 
background
Mr and Mrs O have a mortgage  with Halifax and got a letter  from the lender dated November 
2018 telling  them that it was removing  the CPA facility from their mortgage on 31 March 
2019. The CPA is a mechanism that Halifax uses to allocate payments where the mortgage  
has several sub-accounts with different  rates of interest. Mr and Mrs O have sub-accounts 
but with the same rate of interest. The letter said that as Mr and Mrs O didnt benefit from it 
and that it was removing the facility.
Mr and Mrs O say that the explanations offered in Halifaxs letter were inadequate so Mr O 
called Halifax. Mr O say that in that call Halifax incorrectly told them that the withdrawal of 
the facility was firstly as a result of an agreement with the FSA and later as a result of an 
agreement with the FCA. Mr and Mrs O complained and in a letter  of 25 January Halifax  
gave an explanation of how the CPA facility operated and why it was withdrawn from their 
account. The letter accepted that it provided Mr and Mrs O with incorrect  information and 
offered and paid them  £150  compensation. Our adjudicator  believed  that this offer was fair 
and reasonable.  Mr and Mrs O disagreed and asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parts to this complaint. Firstly Mr and Mrs O complain about the 
inadequacy of the information contained  in the letter of November 2018.  This is indeed a 
short letter and I can understand why Mr and Mrs O might want  to know more and why they 
accepted Halifaxs  invitation to make  contact. Halifax  has been unable  to access  these  
phone calls and Mr and Mrs Os second and third complaints are about  what  Halifax told 
them in those calls.
In their letter to us of 5 February 2019  Mr and Mrs Os main complaint about those 
conversations is that they were misinformed that the change came about  through Halifaxs 
agreement with its regulatory body. I can understand Mr Os annoyance that he wasnt given 
the correct information. Mr and Mrs Os complaint then produced in my view a fairly detailed 
response explaining how the CPA operated  and why the change  wouldnt be detrimental to 
Mr and Mrs O.
Although Halifaxs  initial letter  was aimed  at reassuring  Mr and Mrs O that the removal  of the 
facility wouldnt affect them,  as they had sub-accounts I can understand that they may have 
wanted to know  more about the change. It seems that Mr O got little reassurance in his 
phone calls with Halifax and Halifax concedes that Mr O was given incorrect  information  
about the reason for the removal of the CPA. But on the other  hand  there  was nothing to 
suggest that the removal of the facility  would lead to them  paying  higher interest  which Im 
sure was their main concern. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs O that the letter from Halifax of 
25 January was obtuse as it gave a fairly detailed explanation of how the facility operated 
and why its removal wouldnt affect  Mr and Mrs O detrimentally.
Ref: DRN20357582I know that Mr and Mrs O are concerned  about  what they call institutionalised lying by 
Halifax. We are not a regulatory body and our role isnt to penalise  Halifax but to assess  
what is fair compensation for Mr and Mrs O. I recognise Mr and Mrs Os concerns about  the 
effect of the change and their concerns about the quality of the information they were getting 
from Halifax. On the other hand  I have to recognise that Halifax  gave them reassurance at 
any early stage that the change wasnt going  to have any detrimental effect on them.  Whist I 
agree that there should be compensation my view is that the payment of £150 is fair. As 
Halifax has already  paid this, I dont require  it to do anything more  and so I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2035758