K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a life and critical illness policy taken out with a loan in 2010.
Miss N says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold the policy to her. Shes said she wasnt working at 
the time and so wouldnt have been  able to claim on the policy.  And shes  said she was led 
to believe the policy would cover her if she stopped  receiving certain government benefits,  
which she now knows it would not.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Miss N has said the loan and the policy were taken out over the phone.  Black  Horse cant 
send us a recording  of this phone call. But it has sent us a copy of the call script  it says was 
in use at the time, and a demands  and needs questionnaire which  appears  to have been 
completed using  Miss Ns answers  to the questions  in the script.
The questionnaire shows Miss N wanted  the loan to be repaid if she was diagnosed with a 
critical illness or suffered  loss of life. And the script shows that the advisor wouldve been 
instructed to ask the customer whether they wanted the policy  and whether they were happy  
to go ahead with the policy. The script also instructs the advisor to tell the customer about 
the cooling off period  for the policy.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that this script  was largely followed during 
Miss Ns phone call with Black Horse. So I think Black Horse made it clear to her that she 
had a choice about taking  the policy. And that Miss N chose to take it, knowing she didnt 
have to.
The demands and needs questionnaire shows that Black Horse recommended the policy to 
Miss N. This means it had to make sure the policy was right for her. And, based on what Ive 
seen of Miss Ns circumstances at the time of the sale, I think  that the policy  was right for 
her.
Miss N has said she had a young dependent at the time of the sale. Shes also said she 
didnt have any savings  or insurance  she couldve used to make  the loan repayments  if she 
was ill. And the demands and needs questionnaire  shows she didnt have enough existing 
insurance or benefits  to repay the amount of the loan if she was diagnosed  with a critical 
illness or died.
If Miss N had been diagnosed with a critical illness, she may have incurred extra  expenses  
either for her own medical costs or for additional care for her dependent.  The policy  would 
have paid off the outstanding balance on her loan,  which wouldve meant  she could put the 
money she used for the loan repayments towards any extra expenses that did occur.  The 
policy would also have  paid off the outstanding balance on the loan if Miss N had died, and 
so her dependent or any beneficiaries of her estate wouldnt have needed to worry about it.
Ref: DRN27603412So, as the policy provided some  benefit for Miss N and some protection  for her dependent, I 
think it was right for her and she wouldve seen some value in taking it out.
The demands and needs questionnaire shows that Miss N said she had sought or received  
medical treatment in the 12 months before the sale of the policy.  But theres no suggestion  
that the condition she sought  or received treatment for was serious enough to likely lead to 
Miss Ns death or diagnosis with a critical illness. And Miss N hasnt mentioned any medical 
conditions at any other time during  this complaint. So I think its likely this condition  wouldnt 
have affected  her ability to claim on the policy or her decision to take it out.
While Miss N has said she wasnt working at the time, this policy didnt require her to be 
working or to lose her job in order to make  a claim.  The policy could still have been of benefit  
to her even  though she wasnt working. So I dont think the fact she wasnt working means  
the policy wasnt right for her.
Miss N has also said she was led to believe the policy  would cover  her if she stopped  
receiving certain government benefits. But she hasnt given us much  detail about what was 
said or what led her to believe this. And the script Black Horse has sent us gives a 
reasonable explanation  of the life and critical illness benefit, and doesnt mention  any other 
potential benefits.  So I dont think theres  enough evidence  for me to say that Black  Horse 
made her think this loss of government benefits  would be covered.
This means  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. So Black Horse doesnt  need to refund 
everything Miss N paid for it. But Black Horse has offered to give Miss N back some of the 
cost of the policy. I dont  think  it needs  to do anything more.
Black Horse  will make arrangements  to pay Miss N now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2760341