K822xcomplaint
Mr F, on behalf  of a limited company, T, complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont  refund him 
for spending made using Ts debit card. He says Ts debit card was stolen and used before 
he could tell Lloyds  what had happened.
For ease, Ill refer to everything as if Mr F is the account holder.
summary of my decision 
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this case  in October and December 2020. The 
second of these said I was minded to tell Lloyds to refund Mr F for the spending and to pay 
simple interest at 8% per annum from the date of the transactions  to the date of settlement.
Both parties  accepted that provisional decision.  So this decision simply confirms  my 
proposed award  and sets out  briefly  what happened and how weve  got to where we are.
background 
Mr F was travelling  abroad. His wallet, containing  his Lloyds debit card (and cards from other 
banks), was stolen. Before he could  contact Lloyds, his debit card was used.
Lloyds wouldnt refund Mr F for the loss. The bank  said its records  showed Mr Fs genuine 
card had been used and the PIN was entered correctly. So Lloyds didnt think Mr F had kept 
his card safe or looked  after his security  information  correctly. The bank noted Mr F had lost 
his debit card on four previous occasions.
Mr F got in touch with us. One of our investigators looked into things  for him. He felt Lloyds  
should refund the money.
Our investigator considered Lloyds decision to not refund the money didnt  pass the 
threshold under the Payment Services Regulations 2017  (PSRs), which set out when banks 
can hold customers responsible for use of debit cards (and other  matters). In summary, our 
investigator didnt  think  what had happened  here could be regarded  as gross  negligence 
on the part of Mr F.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Lloyds records demonstrated sufficiently that the 
spending had been carried out using the PIN associated with the card.  Lloyds didnt agree. 
The bank thought the investigators interpretation of the PSRs wasnt right and its evidence 
did support the use of the original card and PIN.
As Lloyds  didnt agree with the investigators  view the complaint was referred  to me to make  
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my first provisional  decision
Ref: DRN28208652I said I wasnt proposing to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I didnt think Lloyds had to refund  the 
money.
While I could see Mr F felt strongly about  whatd  happened here, I wasnt entirely  persuaded 
by his version of events.  And Lloyds records did indicate the genuine card had been  used 
and the PIN entered correctly. There was reference to an authorisation code. Thats  the sort 
of thing Id expect to see on a debit or credit  card slip given to the customer  by a retailer after 
the spending had been approved by the customers bank.
But Lloyds records were  somewhat piecemeal.  I asked for additional  information  to support 
what had been  provided before. This wasnt as straight forward as Id expected. The bank 
struggled to respond. This didnt reflect well on Lloyds. But  on balance  I was persuaded 
by the records  that were  available.
My provisional decision also responded to comments Mr F had made  about  the location  of 
the transactions. And I noted that just because Lloyds  said Mr F had lost his card on four 
previous occasions  this didnt mean  it shouldnt  refund him this time.  But it did perhaps paint 
a picture of a lack of care when  dealing  with his card.
my second  provisional  decision
Lloyds didnt respond to my first provisional decision.  That wasnt  surprising.
Mr F did. And he didnt agree with what Id said. Again, that wasnt  a great  surprise.  But he 
did highlight  the issue that another bank (Bank 2) had not allowed another transaction  to go 
through at this time  as the card for that account  had been stolen at the same  time. He 
thought we should investigate this further.
It isnt necessarily our role to go hunting  for evidence to support one party or the other.  
Were impartial and dont take sides.  We simply look at the evidence  thats  available.
But we do probe areas where necessary to see if they tell us more  about the wider 
circumstances of a complaint  or what were  being  told by either party. And here, Mr F was 
very insistent that hed not written down  his PIN  or let anybody  know what  it was.
So we got in touch with Bank 2. And its records clearly show the transaction it rejected 
(because there wasnt enough money in the account) was attempted  using a signature as 
proof of identity  not the PIN being entered correctly.
That gave considerably more weight to Mr Fs version of events. So I was now minded  to tell 
Lloyds it should  refund the money  to Mr F.
I did say that if Lloyds was able to provide clear and compelling additional  evidence  that 
Mr Fs PIN was entered correctly in order to carry out the spending,  Ill think  again. But that 
evidence had to be comprehensive. It may have been available  through  the records  kept by 
the card scheme  when  processing the transaction (rather than Lloyds itself,  which  is the card 
issuer). That was a matter for Lloyds to follow through  on.
Ref: DRN28208653summary of responses to my second provisional  decision
Mr F agreed  with my second provisional  decision.  Lloyds  responded  to say that it would now 
refund the money. Nothing new has come  to light. So all that Im required to do is to confirm 
the award as outlined  in that second  provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay T:
£1,717.88; and
8% simple interest on the above  amount from the date it was debited  from Ts account up 
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision  before 19 February 2021.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2820865