K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms L complain that due to an error by NRAM Limited their unsecured loan wasnt  
repaid when their property  was sold. They ask that the loan balance  is written off. 
background
Mr L and Ms L took out an interest  only mortgage  and unsecured loan with NRAM in 2006. 
They had financial difficulties and entered  individual voluntary arrangements  (IVA) in 2010. 
The unsecured loan was included in their IVAs. The IVAs failed and the unsecured loan was 
returned to NRAM  in early  2014.  
Mr L and Ms Ls property was sold in late 2014. Mr L says that both the secured and 
unsecured loans should have been repaid from the sales proceeds. He says NRAM made 
an error when it didnt include the unsecured loan in its redemption  statement. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She said it was 
unfortunate that NRAM didnt include the unsecured loan in the settlement amount when the 
property was sold in December 2014.  But this didnt mean Mr L and Ms L arent liable for the 
debt. The adjudicator said the sales proceeds werent enough to repay the secured and 
unsecured loan and Mr L would have  known this. And NRAM wrote to Mr L about the debt in 
2014 and early 2015. 
Ms L didnt  agree. She said she hadnt received any correspondence about the loan since 
she separated from Mr L in 2013.  She says its unfair  that she started  receiving letters about 
the unsecured  loan three years after Mr L sold the house. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr L and Ms L took out a mortgage and unsecured loan with NRAM in 2006.  Mr L and Ms L 
both entered individual voluntary arrangements (IVA)  in 2010. The unsecured  loan was 
included in their IVAs. Mr L and Ms L separated in 2013. NRAM said it didnt have contact 
details for Mrs L after this.
One or both of the IVAs  failed and the unsecured loan was returned to NRAM in early 2014. 
NRAM wrote  to Mr L in 2014  about  repaying the outstanding balance. 
Mr L and Mrs Ls property  was sold in December 2014. Mr L and Mrs Ls solicitors asked 
NRAM for the amount  required to redeem all existing accounts with you. NRAM provided a 
redemption statement which didnt include the unsecured loan. NRAM wrote  to Mr L and 
Mrs Ls solicitors  in January 2015 confirming that the secured and unsecured loan parts  
(where applicable)  are at zero and no further  funds  are due. NRAM accepts this was an 
error. 
Ref: DRN25583222The secured  loan was repaid from the sales proceeds. Mr and Mrs L say they were  
contacted by NRAM in 2018  asking them to pay the outstanding balance of the unsecured 
loan. 
what should happen now?
NRAM accepts that it made  an error when it didnt include the unsecured  loan in the 
redemption statement. It offered £100 for the trouble  and upset caused by this. Mr L and 
Mrs L say that it shouldnt pursue them for the outstanding debt. 
I understand why Mr L and Mrs L are upset. NRAM made an error in the redemption 
statement and when  it confirmed to Mr L and Mrs Ls solicitors there was a zero balance  on 
both the secured and unsecured loan account.  They say they didnt hear anything from 
NRAM for about three years after this. But I dont think this in itself means that NRAM must 
write off the loan balance.
NRAM provided a copy  of the annual mortgage statement for the secured loan which  
showed the outstanding  balance at 31 May 2014 was about  £181,500. It says it contacted 
Mr L in March and April 2014 about  the unsecured loan.  It wrote to Mr L about the unsecured 
loan in December  2014 and early  2015 setting out the amount owed  about £17,500. 
The redemption statement said the outstanding balance was about £182,000  plus accrued 
and unpaid interest. I think Mr L would reasonably have been aware that this couldnt include 
both the secured and unsecured loans. 
NRAM sent letters to the address in its records  the property that the mortgage was 
secured on. NRAM  says Mr L didnt provide new contact  details  after the property was sold. 
So if Mr L didnt receive letters  for some  time after this, I dont think that was because of an 
error by NRAM. 
Mrs L says she separated from Mr L in 2013. She says shed understood the loans had been 
repaid when the property was sold. Mrs L says she hadnt heard from NRAM until 2018. 
NRAM says this is because Mrs L didnt provide her contact details. So while  its unfortunate 
that Mrs L didnt receive information about the unsecured loan until 2018, I dont think this 
was because of an error  by NRAM.
NRAMs notes say there would have been about  £8,000 left from the sales proceeds after 
the secured loan was repaid. Its notes suggest  there were other debts secured on the 
property. So, based on the available evidence, it seems unlikely there would have been  
funds left after all secured loans and costs  related to the sale were paid to repay the 
unsecured loan. 
Mr L and Mrs L borrowed  the money  and the debt remains unpaid.  Its unfortunate they were  
given incorrect information  when their property was sold. But it seems  unlikely  the unsecured 
loan could have  been repaid from the sales proceeds when  the property was sold, even if 
NRAM hadnt made an error in the redemption  statement. Its also unfortunate that NRAM 
didnt get in contact with Mr L and Mrs L for some  time after the property was sold.  But I 
think this was because  Mr L and Mrs L didnt provide their contact details to NRAM, not 
because of an error by NRAM. In the circumstances, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
require NRAM to write off the debt. 
Ref: DRN25583223my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2558322