K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) blocked her account without 
making her aware that it needed  an up to date identity document  (ID) for her. She doesnt 
think it provided a reasonable explanation  for why she had to provide up to date ID, and she 
believes Nationwide could have completed  the ID check  soon after it knew legislation was 
changing.
background 
Ms B holds a bank  account with Nationwide.  In December 2017  Ms B, who was away  at the 
time, had a transaction declined because  her account had been blocked.  When  she returned 
home she found a letter  from Nationwide which explained the reason for blocking her 
account and advising  her to go to a branch to provide some ID. The block  on the account  
was then lifted.
Ms B complained saying she hadnt  been  previously made aware by Nationwide  she needed 
to provide ID and thought it was unfair to stop her accessing her money without telling her 
why. She wanted  an explanation of why this had happened. 
Nationwide said it had blocked the account because recent  legislation  meant  it needed to 
hold up to date ID for her to allow transactions. Ms Bs ID wasnt  up to date. Nationwide  said 
it had acted correctly   in line with the account terms and conditions, in blocking the account 
but accepted it had caused Ms B some inconvenience and agreed in the end to offer her a 
total of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said Nationwides offer was fair and 
reasonable. But Ms B didnt agree. She replied in detail  but in summary she said  
Nationwide hadnt  explained why it took so long to comply  with the new regulations in asking 
her to provide ID and she thought it acted  unfairly  in blocking her account.
She asked  for an ombudsman to review the case so its been passed  to me for final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen how strongly Ms B feels about this situation. She has made a number of detailed  
points, which  I have  read and considered. I hope  the fact that I do not respond in a similar 
detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we 
are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable  conclusion  with the minimum of formality.
In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on 
the crux of the issue.
Having done so, Im not going  to require Nationwide to do any further with this complaint 
beyond paying  the £150 it has offered. Ill explain  why.
Theres no dispute that Nationwide needed the ID it requested. Its said that it had to comply 
with new EU regulations  and it decided to stagger the requests because  of the large  number 
of customers involved.  
Ref: DRN22430422And Im satisfied Nationwides terms and conditions allowed it to block Ms Bs account where 
there are UK or European legal or regulatory  obligations we have  to meet  so I dont think 
Nationwide acted unfairly there.  
But I would have expected Nationwide to clearly communicate any requirements it had to 
Ms B and give her the opportunity to comply before  it took the action it did. But theres no 
evidence it ever made Ms B aware she needed  to provide ID for her account.  And it also 
accepts that it had a number  of opportunities to do so before it ultimately blocked the 
account.  
 
So Ms B wasnt able to avoid the situation she was put in in December  2017  with her card 
being declined.  And I can see how this caused  her distress and inconvenience. I can also 
see that Nationwide told Ms B some conflicting information about whether or not it did 
communicate with her before the account was blocked. 
But Nationwide has recognised that these  issues caused Ms B distress  and inconvenience 
and has offered her £150. Having considered this carefully, I think  Nationwides  offer is fair. 
I know Ms B would like me to hold Nationwide to account for its processes and actions over 
this matter because  she believes  she was treated unfairly, as she thinks  other  customers  
were sent multiple  reminders to bring  their ID to a branch. Otherwise  she says there would 
lots of complaints  about this same matter.  
But Im not able to comment on any other similar complaints  there may be and our awards 
are not intended  to be penalties to punish a business for any wrong doing. Our awards are 
made to compensate individual consumers for any financial  loss or material distress and 
inconvenience a mistake has caused. But as explained  above,  I accept Nationwide  should 
have made  Ms B aware of the need  for her to provide ID and, in not doing so, it caused her 
distress and inconvenience. But I think the £150  offered is fair and reasonable in my opinion 
and so I wont be asking  Nationwide  to do anything further. 
my final decision
Nationwide has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide  Building Society  should pay Ms B £150.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243042