K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) wasnt  able to respond within  a 
reasonable time when he called on it under his home emergency insurance  policy  after his 
central heating boiler broke down. He wants BGI to reimburse what  he had to pay a third 
party engineer to carry out the repair.
background 
Mr G owned a flat which  he rented out. He took out a home  emergency  policy  with BGI so 
that speedy boiler, electrical, and plumbing  repairs could be provided  to his tenants.  
On 27 February 2018 Mr Gs tenant  contacted  BGI under the policy because the boiler had 
stopped working  leaving  them without heating and hot water.  BGI said the earliest available  
appointment for one of its engineers would be 1 March 2018 between  8.00 am and 1.00 pm 
 some 48 hours later.
The weather  was exceptionally cold at that time, and Mr G didnt think it was reasonable that 
his tenant should have  to wait so long without  heating and hot water.  So he contacted the 
engineer who had installed the boiler  for him. He came on 28 February  2018.  He replaced 
the fan on the boiler and got it working again.
Mr G paid his own engineer £336  for the replacement  part and labour. He asked BGI to 
reimburse this payment.
BGI wouldnt reimburse this payment. It said that its terms  and conditions  didnt provide for it 
to reimburse costs a policy holder paid instead  of getting BGI to carry out a repair. The terms 
and conditions provided as follows:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre  entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
BGI said the extreme weather conditions being  experienced  that week meant an 
unprecedented demand for appointments  and a reduction in the staff available  to carry them 
out. So it didnt  think two days was an unacceptable time to wait for a breakdown 
appointment, given  nobody  at the property had any vulnerabilities which would make them a 
priority emergency appointment. 
BGI offered Mr G £30 as a gesture of goodwill. He declined this and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said the weather at 
this particular time was really severe. So waiting two days  for hot water and heating  might be 
considered unreasonable, whether or not the customers  were  vulnerable.
BGIs terms  and conditions didn't specify a specific timeframe for when repairs should be 
carried out. But it could  be said the severe weather potentially  prompted immediate action. If 
BGI couldn't  act immediately, it wasnt unreasonable, in the severe circumstances, for the 
customer to go elsewhere.  In this instance,  he didnt think  it unreasonable  for BGI to pay 
Ref: DRN21014582what the repairs would've cost BGI if it had carried them out. BGI would have to show this by 
getting quotes from its own suppliers.
Mr G accepted the investigators recommendation. BGI asked the investigator to supply  an 
invoice showing details  of the work Mr Gs engineer had carried  out, which  the investigator 
did. However it responded to say, in summary,  that it didnt think it had failed to offer the 
level of service envisaged in the terms and conditions. In the end, it said, the repair  was 
completed by Mr Gs engineer only 24 hours before BGIs engineer  was due to visit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the severity of the weather  conditions being  experienced at the time works both ways. 
On the one hand, BGI can point to them to say why it was reasonable that it would be 48 
hours before its engineer could attend.  On the other  hand, from the tenants  viewpoint it 
made waiting for a repair even more stressful, uncomfortable and inconvenient.
Given that Mr G didnt  know  what the fault was, and how complicated it might  be to repair,  
including whether parts might have to be specially ordered, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for him to try to find an engineer to look at the boiler sooner and try to repair it. Fortunately 
the engineer was able to achieve  a quick repair at a cost to Mr G of £336.
BGI says it met the requirements  of its terms and conditions, as quoted  above,  in the 
circumstances prevailing at that time.  However Mr Gs actions saved BGI expense and 
repair time when, by its own admission, it was struggling to meet  all the demands on its staff.
I think, like the investigator, that it would  have been fair for BGI to contribute  to Mr G what it 
would have cost it if its engineer  had attended  and repaired the boiler. From what  Mr G said 
the parts alone cost £184.18.  However  BGI has declined  to provide this information,  and 
continues to maintain  it acted correctly and neednt make any contribution beyond the £30 
goodwill payment that was offered  to, and refused by, Mr G.
I dont agree. In the circumstances, and in the absence of any information to say it would 
have cost BGI less to carry out the repair under the policy,  I think its fair and reasonable that 
BGI now reimburses Mr G the £336 it cost him to repair  the boiler.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr G £336.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21014583
Ref: DRN2101458