K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  unfairly cancelled  
his life cover. 
background
Mr G held life cover with Legal and General  for several years.  Mr G cancelled the direct debit 
on his existing policy, which caused it to lapse on 5 September 2018. 
On 6 September 2018 he contacted Legal and General to reduce his cover,  so he could in 
turn reduce  his monthly premium. The adviser  explained that for changes to be made to his 
existing policy hed need to bring  the policy premiums up to date, alternatively he could start 
a new policy. Mr G decided to start a new policy. 
As part of the application  process  Mr G was asked  a number  of questions about his health 
and lifestyle. Based on the answers  he gave Legal and General was able to offer Mr G cover 
on standard terms, and cover started on 17 September  2018.  The same day Legal and 
General sent Mr G a Check  Your Details (CYD) form, which  asked him to check that the 
answers hed given at application were accurate to the best of his knowledge.  
Mr G returned the CYD form on 14 November  2018, explaining he was undergoing testing 
for blood in his stools. Legal and General requested  more information from Mr G and his GP 
about the investigations he was undergoing.  On receipt of the information, 
Legal and General concluded that Mr G had sought  medical advice about changes  to his 
bowel habit before the policy had started. It said that had it known this before the policy 
started it wouldnt  have agreed to offer him insurance. It explained that it would therefore 
have to cancel  the policy and refund the premiums hed paid. 
Mr G has sadly  since been diagnosed with cancer.  While this would not have been a 
claimable event, Mr G is aware hed now struggle to obtain life cover elsewhere. 
Mr G feels Legal and Generals decision was unfair in the circumstances. He pointed to the 
fact that hed been a customer of Legal and General for many years  and clearly  had no 
reason to suspect  he had cancer as he was looking to reduce his level of cover. He referred 
his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered  the complaint but didnt uphold it. 
She was satisfied that Legal and General was entitled to cancel the policy  as it hadnt  been 
aware of material facts about Mr Gs state  of health when he first applied  for cover. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman for a final 
decision. He said he had no intention to cancel his existing policy as he just wanted to 
reduce his level of cover,  but was advised  this wasnt an option. He said Legal and General 
hadnt made him aware of the risks of allowing his existing policy to lapse. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Mr Gs cancer  diagnosis. I can only imagine it mustve been  a very 
difficult time for him coming to terms with this diagnosis while also pursuing  this complaint. I 
also dont underestimate  the disappointment to learn that his life cover had been stopped. 
Ref: DRN25215222While Im very sympathetic  to Mr Gs circumstances, I havent found  that Legal  and General  
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So I wont be upholding this complaint. I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr G, so Id like to explain how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
 
It appears to be accepted  that Mr G didnt tell Legal  and General  that hed been experiencing 
symptoms of changes  to his bowel habits  when he first applied for cover. This was despite 
being asked During  the last 3 months, have you had: any other  symptom  for which  you may 
see a health professional about for the first time during the next 4 weeks. His medical 
records show that hed seen his GP on 13 September  2018 to discuss  a Change in bowel 
habit over the last few months with intermittent  constipation and diarrhoea,  feelings of 
tenesmus, which he should have disclosed.  But it seems this was an honest  oversight on 
Mr Gs part, because when he completed the CYD form he confirmed he was waiting for 
other tests or investigations. 
The issue  for me to determine is whether it was fair and reasonable for Legal and General to 
cancel Mr Gs policy when it found out about these investigations. 
Theres been some discussion about  when Mr Gs initial  policy lapsed, and whether this was 
before or after the new policy was put in place. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied it 
lapsed on 5 September 2018, before Mr G arranged to put new cover in place. Mr G 
cancelled his direct  debit before the August premium had been collected.  And the policy 
terms and conditions confirm that Legal  and General would cancel  the policy if premiums are 
not paid within 30 days of their due date.
Having listened  to the call Mr G had with Legal  and General, Im satisfied he was aware that 
his existing cover had already ended and he was no longer covered, as he mentioned this to 
the sales agent. When he explained  he was looking  to reduce his level of cover, the adviser 
said that if he wanted to make  changes to his existing policy  hed need to bring the premium  
payments up to date.  When  given  the option, Mr G decided hed rather  start a new policy.  I 
note that Legal and General also offered Mr G the opportunity  to discuss the new policy  with 
a financial adviser  before proceeding with a quote, but he turned  this down as he said he 
used to sell these policies  and knew how they worked. So I cant hold Legal and General 
responsible for the fact that the existing  policy  had been cancelled, or that Mr G chose to 
take out a new policy.  
As Mr G chose  to take out a new policy, he had to go through  new underwriting  so 
Legal and General could  decide whether to offer him new cover, and if so on what terms. 
This was explained during the application call and in the declaration, which  states For the 
purposes of assessing  my application  and any subsequent claim Legal and General will use 
the information given in this application . The CYD also confirmed  that If the answers  on 
your application  are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may mean  that claim will 
be declined  and the policy or policies  cancelled.  
When Mr G returned the CYD  form, Legal  and General wrote to him to acknowledge receipt  
on 16 November 2018. It explained To continue with your cover, we need to confirm some 
additional detailsWhen we receive  the information  we need, well re-assess  your 
application. Its possible that we may need  to change your policy or cancel it. So Im 
satisfied Legal  and General made  it clear  to Mr G that his new offer of cover was subject to 
his current state of health and the answers  hed given in the application and CYD form. 
Ref: DRN25215223Legal and General has demonstrated that had it known that Mr G was likely to see his GP 
within four weeks of completing the application,  or that hed been referred for investigations  
before his policy started, it wouldnt have offered him cover straightaway. It would have 
postponed any offer of cover until the outcome of the investigations was known. Sadly the 
investigations found that Mr G had bowel  cancer. 
In the circumstances, I cant say Legal and General was unreasonable  to cancel the policy  
and refund the premiums Mr G had paid since cover started in September  2018, as his 
policy should never have been  put in place.  
While I understand Mr Gs concerns  that he may now struggle to obtain life cover elsewhere 
because of his recent  ill-health, I cant say that Legal  and General  has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying the underwriting terms it would have applied had it known of 
Mr Gs symptoms from the outset. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2521522