K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bradford and Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with B&B in 1988. At the same time they bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered the repayments on their mortgage indefinitely  if Mr L  whom 
the policy covered   couldnt work due to accident,  sickness or redundancy. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were led to believe they had to take the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree, so their case has been passed  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs L dont suggest  that they didnt agree to take the PPI. And B&B has been able to 
provide a copy of their mortgage application  form where Mr and Mrs L agreed to take the 
PPI. But Mr and Mrs L say they were told they had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage and 
they werent given  a real choice.
I havent seen  anything to suggest this was the case. The mortgage application form doesnt 
suggest any connection between acceptance  for the loan and buying  PPI. B&B did 
sometimes offer preferential interest rates to those who chose to buy PPI. I dont  know  
whether this applied in Mr and Mrs Ls case,  but if it did and Mr and Mrs L hadnt wanted  to 
buy PPI they could have chosen  a different mortgage product. The mortgage application 
form makes it clear  the PPI is optional.
Mr and Mrs L say that they were  made  to sign a big bundle  of documents  and so werent  
aware the PPI had been added or that they had a choice about it. Ive looked at the form Mr 
and Mrs L signed  and it looks very straightforward. The section about PPI is only a few 
inches above  the signature boxes and I dont think they could have missed it, even if an 
advisor completed the rest of the form for them.
So, on balance, I think Mr and Mrs L bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about it. 
Mr and Mrs L say B&B advised  them to buy the policy.  I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mr 
and Mrs L were given any personal advice from B&B, and B&B explain that they didnt 
recommend PPI to consumers. So I dont think B&B were  obliged to take steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. But even if B&B did advise Mr and Mrs L to take 
the policy, I think such a recommendation  wouldve been suitable. I say this because:
Ref: DRN29294572Mr L, whom  the policy covered, was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been 
affected by any terms which mightve  made it more difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim,  such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment;
Mr L likely had some  sick pay entitlement from his employer. But the policy  wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and for as long as he was off sick;
Mr L was probably entitled to statutory redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs L say they also 
had some savings they couldve used if Mr L was out of work. But the policy  wouldve 
paid out in addition to this leaving any other  funds  they had to cover  other  uninsured 
expenses. So I think the PPI offered them a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time and offered an unlimited benefit at the time of sale. And it was flexible 
because it couldve been cancelled  at any time without a financial  penalty.
Its possible Mr and Mrs L werent  given all the details they ideally shouldve received about 
the policy. But I dont  think more, or better, information wouldve made a difference to their 
decision to buy the PPI, because it was suitable for them in the way Ive described. 
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs L lost out as a result  of anything B&B mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint so it follows that Bradford and Bingley Plc dont 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2929457