K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a washing machine he ordered  from Temple  Finance Limited on a hire 
purchase agreement  wasnt delivered,  and wants compensation for the trouble and upset 
this caused him. 
background
On 10 January 2019 Mr S ordered  a new washing machine from Temple  Finance Limited on 
finance. He received a text message on the following day to confirm his order  had been 
accepted, which was followed a few days later by two emails from a third-party  delivery 
company. The first email  confirmed delivery  for 15 January 2019, and the second advised  
the delivery would  be completed by 12:05   with a two hour delivery window that 
commenced from 10:05.
Mr S says that in preparation for the delivery  of the new washing machine he gave his old 
machine to his daughter, with it removed  from his property prior to the new machine arriving. 
He also says that he took the day off work so that he would be home for the delivery.
On the morning of 15 January 2019 Mr S got an email from the third-party delivery company 
at 08:00 advising  that his order  had not arrived into the depot in time for delivery  that day. 
But that hed be contacted  as soon as the item was received to arrange a new delivery date.  
Mr S got in touch with Temple  Finance  and the third-party delivery company several times 
looking for an update on the delivery  of his washing machine.
The next day Mr S was told that the washing machine he had ordered  was no longer in 
stock, and wouldnt be supplied. 
Mr S raised a complaint with Temple Finance about the inconvenience hed experienced as 
a result of the delivery being cancelled.  Mr S says that Temple  Finance offered him the 
equivalent of a weekly payment, but he wasnt happy with this offer so he brought  his 
complaint to our service.
In February 2019  Temple Finance issued their final response letter,  they offered Mr S £22.76 
for the level of service  hed received. They said the problem was caused due to errors by the 
third-party courier company in confirming a delivery  date,  before checking whether the item 
was in stock, which  is outside their control.
Mr S told us he felt the offer from Temple Finance still didnt adequately compensate him for 
the trouble and upset he experienced. Mr S asked for £200 saying that hed lost a days work 
waiting for the delivery, and that for three weeks hed had to use a laundrette  to do the 
washing for his family as he couldnt afford to get a replacement  washing machine until his 
next payday.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it, recommending that 
Temple Finance should  pay Mr S £100  for the trouble  and upset caused.
Mr S accepted the investigators opinion but Temple Finance disagreed with it, saying they 
didnt feel £100  was a fair payment. 
So the case was passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN28823262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth  noting that our service can only look into this complaint, because  the goods in 
question were bought on credit  by the way of a hire purchase agreement. And while the hire 
purchase agreement  mayve been cancelled, the delivery of the item was part of the 
agreement that Mr S entered and forms part of the transaction.
Temple Finance says that the problem was caused due to errors by the third-party  courier 
company they contracted to deliver  the item.  But Temple Finance still has overall 
responsibility for any issues that arise under the hire purchase agreement, specifically  in this 
case the delivery of the goods.  
So Ive looked  at what happened  and what impact  this had on Mr S.
Mr S says that he got rid of his old washing machine before the new one was due to be 
delivered. When the new machine wasnt delivered on the due date, Mr S says that he had 
to wait three weeks before he could afford to buy a replacement  and during that time had 
to use a laundrette  for his familys washing.
I think its most likely  that if Mr S hadnt  been provided with a delivery date he wouldve kept 
his existing washing machine until he had confirmation of when the new one would be 
delivered. So Im persuaded that most of Mr Ss inconvenience couldve been avoided  if he 
was given correct  information about the availability of his goods.
Mr S has explained that the laundrette was closer to his home  than his daughters  place, so 
it was more convenient and cheaper  than him travelling  to her place to use his old washing 
machine - and this doesnt sound  unreasonable. And I think  there wouldve been a level of 
frustration and inconvenience caused  to Mr S in not having a washing machine in his home 
for a period  of three weeks. Mr S says he had to make several calls and had webchats with 
both Temple Finance and the third-party delivery  company in trying to find out what  was 
happening with the order, prior to him being told that the washing machine wouldnt be 
supplied. 
Temple Finance has acknowledged  failings in the service it delivered to Mr S and offered 
£22.76. But considering everything, I agree  with the investigator that £100  feels like a fair 
payment for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S. If Temple  Finance have already paid the 
£22.76 to Mr S they can deduct  this from the £100.
Ref: DRN28823263my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Temple Finance  Limited  should  pay Mr S 
£100 in total for the trouble and upset  he was caused. They can deduct  the £22.76 from the 
£100 if theyve  already  paid it to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2882326