K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained about advice given to him by Lepretre & Partners. Alexander  Beard  
Investment Management Limited is now responsible for the advice.  Mr M was advised  to 
transfer his defined contribution work  place  pension into a SIPP  (Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension). He says the advice was unsuitable, as it facilitated investment  into an unregulated 
property scheme.
background
Mr M was referred to Alexander  Beard  in 2013 by an unregulated investment firm, which  was 
run by a former work colleague of Mr Ms. Advice  was provided by Alexander Beard, a 
regulated UK based company, in September 2013 to transfer  Mr Ms pension funds into a 
SIPP. This was to allow him to invest in a Turkish  property development, Harmony  Bay. 
Mr M lived overseas at the time.  
The suitability report contained details  of Mr Ms income and assets. Alexander Beard said in 
the suitability report that they were not providing advice about the suitability of the Harmony 
Bay investment,  just the transfer to the SIPP. An amount of £45,122 was transferred in 
February 2014 and Mr M invested £31,400  in Harmony Bay. In November 2015 Mr M also 
invested £9,500 in Golf and Spa resort based in France provided by the same unregulated  
property company. 
Mr M complained to Alexander Beard  using a claims management company. The complaint 
was rejected and referred to this service.  One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. 
He thought it should be upheld. The adjudicator  said:
Alexander Beard  were  obliged to consider the proposed investment as well as the 
transfer to the SIPP.
Had Alexander Beard  considered the investment they would have found it unsuitable 
because it significantly increased  Mr Ms exposure to risk and the costs  involved 
were very high.
Mr M had also given  up a tax-free  cash enhancement of 36.8% by transferring his 
pension benefits.
Both the transfer  and the investment were  unsuitable.
The adjudicator also said that the further  investment in 2015 would not have been able to 
take place without Alexander Beards transfer,  therefore they should be held accountable.
Alexander Beard did not agree. They said the second investment was not in contemplation 
at the time of the advice  to start the SIPP. They should not be responsible as the chain of 
causation was broken.  
I issued my provisional decision. I explained I thought the advice was unsuitable.  However, I 
did not think Alexander  Beard should  compensate Mr M for the investment in the second  
property. 
Ref: DRN23564012I referred to a report issued in 2008  by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) about pension 
advice. This highlighted the following as the most commonly  found reasons for poor 
customer outcomes:
Extra product costs  without good reason.
Recommended funds  were not suitable for the customers attitude  to investment risk.
Mr Ms existing  pension  scheme was invested in the All World Equity Index Fund, which  
had management  charges  of 0.105% a year. In contrast, the transfer to the SIPP involved 
the following  costs:
4% advice charge  from Lepretre  & Partners  plus £500 report  fee
SIPP setup fee of £325
Property purchase fee of £525
Annual SIPP fee of £475 and property charge £200
In addition to these, there would be costs associated with the Harmony Bay investment. I 
agreed with the adjudicator that the advice meant Mr M would pay higher charges.
Mr M had an enhanced tax-free  cash allowance of 36.8% in his existing scheme  which was 
reduced to 25% after transfer. Although subject to possible  tax charges, if Mr M was not 
resident in the UK at retirement, he lost the options  by transferring.
Alexander Beard said their advice in September 2013 only concerned  the transfer of Mr Ms 
pension benefits.  It did not include the suitability of any investments  he planned to make  
afterwards. An alert issued by the FSA in 2013  provided guidance about what constituted 
suitable advice  when transferring an individuals pension  with the intention of further 
investment.
The alert in January  2013 stated that the FSA had seen several cases where financial 
advisers were moving investors pensions into SIPPs to invest  in high risk, often highly  
illiquid unregulated  investments  [such  as]  overseas property developments among 
other non-mainstream propositions.
The alert clarified the FSAs approach, stating:
The provision of suitable advice  generally requires considerationwhen advice is given on 
a product which is a vehicle for investment of the suitability of the expected  underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.
I explained that Lepretre & Partners  were giving regulated  advice. The rules required that 
advice to be suitable for Mr Ms circumstances. The risks of transferring to a SIPP are mostly 
about the risks associated  with the investment. Suitable advice could  not be given without  
considering the investment.
Ref: DRN23564013I said Mr M was willing to accept some investment risk. However, the investment into 
Harmony Bay posed significant new risks. It was an unregulated investment in an overseas 
country. It relied on the tourist  industry in that country. It pooled most of Mr Ms retirement 
funds into a single asset class whereas those funds had been diversified in a global share 
fund. There was no guarantee the resort would be built or receive rental income. There  were 
also liquidity  risks at retirement  when  a buyer  would  have to be found to purchase the 
property, which would  not have been the case with a diversified global share fund where  
shares could be readily sold.
Harmony Bay was a non-mainstream, unregulated  investment.  The FSA issued an alert 
about unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) in July 2010. I agreed with the 
adjudicator it was not certain that the Harmony Bay resort qualified  as a UCIS,  it was 
unregulated, and it shared  enough of their features (Illiquid, non-mainstream) that the 
reports points still stood  and could be applied to this case.
The report  offered examples  of both good  and practice. An example of good  practice  was:
The firm set up a maximum portfolio  proportion  for UCIS investments within their customers  
portfolio and monitored it on on-going  basis. This level was between 3% and 5% and was 
backed-up by the Firms robust and on-going  due diligence  and monitoring.
The transfer into the SIPP pooled around  three  quarters of Mr Ms retirement benefits into a 
single investment. I acknowledged  that he had been  making  pension  contributions  since 
2011.
I expressed my view that the investment was not suitable for Mr M. It involved significant 
risks and loss of benefits from Mr Ms existing scheme. Lepretre & Partners should have 
given suitable  advice. I thought if Mr M had been told not to invest in Harmony Bay that he 
would not have transferred his pension benefits.  This was because  I took the view most 
consumers follow the advice they are given by regulated advisers. I was not aware of any 
reason why Mr M would  ignore the advice.
Mr M made another investment in the Halcyon  Retreat Golf and Spa resort.  This was in 2015 
some two years after the advice to transfer  into the SIPP. 
Mr M explained that this second investment was made at the suggestion of his ex-colleague. 
I accepted the investment would not have been made if Mr M had been  given suitable  advice 
in 2013. However,  it was made two years  after the advice to start the SIPP.  I agreed with 
Alexander Beard that there was a break in the chain  of causation.  Alexander  Beard  did not 
know the investment  was going to be made, although I accepted that they should  have 
considered where  all of the pension fund was to be invested. I was not satisfied Alexander  
Beard caused  the loss for this investment.
In summary,  I was satisfied the advice to transfer  Mr Ms pension benefits  to a SIPP was 
unsuitable. He would  not have transferred  those  benefits if he had been  given  suitable  
advice. However, Alexander Beard was not responsible for the second investment.
Mr M had been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result  of the loss of a large 
part of his pension  benefits. I thought Alexander Beard should pay him £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN23564014Alexander Beard accepted my provisional findings.  They set out the basis  of the calculation  
they understood had to be made. I asked the investigator to clarify  this with Alexander  
Beard.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional decision, my final decision remains the same. I uphold the complaint for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he 
had been given suitable advice. Mr M should not have  been advised to transfer out of his 
pension scheme. Suitable advice  should  have been  to keep his existing pension  benefits 
invested in the same fund. 
 
What should Alexander Beard do? 
To compensate Mr M fairly Alexander Beard  should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the investment fund Mr M 
was invested in before he transferred. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual  value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
The investment in Halcyon Retreat  Golf and spa resort should be treated as a 
withdrawal from the SIPP  at the date the funds  were used to buy the investment. In 
that way, Alexander Beard will not compensate Mr M for the loss of that investment.
If there is a loss, Alexander Beard  should pay the compensation to Mr M. As Mr M is 
now resident abroad it will be difficult to pay the compensation into a pension  plan in 
the UK. But had it been possible to pay into a pension plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
I do not know whether  Mr M will be resident in the UK or abroad when he takes his 
pension benefits.  I assume he will have to pay tax on the income after he has 
withdrawn any tax-free  cash entitlement. If that is subject to UK income tax, I think  it 
is most  likely  he would pay tax at the basic rate. So, the compensation should be 
reduced by 20% of the loss. However,  because Mr M had an entitlement  to 36.8% of 
his fund as tax-free  cash  the 20% should  only apply to 63.2% of the fund.  The loss 
should be reduced by 12.76%.
My understanding is that compensation is not subject  to income tax in the UK. I do 
not know whether  the same rules  apply for Mr M. He may wish to check the position 
in the country  in which he is resident,  before accepting my award.
In addition, Alexander  Beard should  pay Mr M £300 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M.
Ref: DRN23564015Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Alexander Beard should also pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest paid. If Alexander Beard considers that they are required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  they should tell Mr M how much they have 
taken off. They should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Alexander Beard should take 
ownership of the Harmony Bay investment by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as above.
If Alexander Beard are unable to buy the Harmony Bay investment the actual  value should  
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander Beard may wish to require  
Mr M to provide an undertaking to pay Alexander Beard  any amount he may receive from 
the investment  in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would 
be incurred on drawing  the amount from the pension plan. Alexander Beard will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Tax-free cash value
Mr M has also had his tax-free allowance reduced from 36.8% to 25% by the transfer. This 
benefit cannot be replaced,  but some compensation should be offered to reflect the 
reduction of 11.8% of the tax-free cash entitlement. I have allowed for this amount in the 
calculation of loss set out above.
SIPP Fees
Mr M should not have  been advised to transfer out of his workplace pension.  For the SIPP to 
be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment  needs  to be removed. But if it 
cannot be sold, Mr M is faced with future SIPP fees. I think  it is fair to assume five years of 
future SlPP fees. So, if the contents  of the SIPP cannot be sold,  Alexander  Beard should 
pay an amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Ref: DRN23564016my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Alexander Beard Investment Management Limited should calculate  
any loss and pay compensation  to Mr M as set out above. If my award  is not paid within  28 
days of Mr M accepting  my decision, Alexander  Beard should add simple  interest  at a rate of 
8% gross a year from the date of my decision until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Roy Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2356401