K820x#14complaint
Mr D has a mortgage with Barclays Bank  UK PLC and is unhappy with how it has treated 
him.
background
I issued a decision in August  2019, the content of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision  (albeit Ive removed the references  to Mr Ds surname  and replaced  them  with 
the shortened  form Mr D). In that decision I explained which  parts of Mr Ds complaint we 
could consider, and I went on to set out my thoughts  on the merits of those parts.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions  before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays didnt  add anything further.  And whilst Mr D did respond all he said was 
Yes I do not agree  with the verdict.  Despite being  given further time to do so Mr D hasnt 
told us what parts he doesnt  agree  with or why.
In the absence of any further arguments  Ive reviewed  everything carefully and considered 
the case afresh, but my opinion hasnt changed.  Ive reached the same findings  and for the 
same reasons as I set out in my earlier decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26119982CONTENT OF MY PREVIOUS  DECISION   with Mr Ds full name removed  
summary of complaint
Mr D has a mortgage with Barclays  Bank UK PLC and is unhappy with how it has treated him.
background to complaint
Mr Ds issues  with Barclays go back a few years. The circumstances surrounding this are well known  
to both parties and us, so I dont think I need to explain  them in detail. 
Weve previously considered a complaint brought by Mr D against  Barclays which related to 
information reported on his credit file as he hadnt made his mortgage payments for a number of 
months. An ombudsman colleague issued  a decision in September  2018 in which he explained Mr D 
had brought  his complaint  too late; that is, Mr D had referred  the complaint to us more than six-
months after Barclays had issued its final response letter. 
Since then Mr D has raised other complaints with Barclays,  some of which he says it didnt respond 
to. Hes also unhappy that he cant access his account via online banking,  and has issues when he 
phones Barclays call centres.
Our adjudicator said we wouldnt look at everything Mr D had complained about as some related  to 
how Barclays  had handled the previous  complaint, and for the issues we would consider the 
adjudicator didnt think  Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr D didnt agree  and so its been passed 
to me to decide.
For clarity Im making this decision  first to explain what issues we wont be considering (and why), and 
also to set out my thoughts on those issues we are considering. Both sides will then have an 
opportunity to send us any final submissions  on the issues  we are considering before I review the 
case file again.
my findings
We dont  look at or decide every complaint thats referred to us. There  are some  complaints that we 
cant look at, because the rules we operate under  dont  allow  us to. And there are others that we are 
able look at, but we choose  not to due to their circumstances. The rules that set out what complaints  
we can and cant - as well as those we will and wont - deal with are referred to as the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules  and are laid down  within  the Financial Conduct Authority handbook.  
DISP rule 3.3.4A  says the ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint  would seriously impair the effective operation  of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP rule 3.3.4B  says examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded under  the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  (unless material new evidence which the Ombudsman considers 
likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to the complainant).
The decision  my ombudsman colleague issued  to Mr D in September 2018  explained why we 
wouldnt be considering the issues Barclays responded to in its final response letter  of 1 September  
Ref: DRN261199832017. Whilst  my colleague concentrated on the credit file complaint  in his decision (as that was the 
crux of Mr Ds complaint) the issue of why arrears letters werent sent to Mr D was also covered in 
that final response letter, and so I wont be considering that issue here. 
I can see Barclays explained again about the lack of arrears letters  in its October 2018  final response 
letter but that didnt add anything further to what had previously been said in 2017,  so Im satisfied 
there was no further investigation on that point and no new findings issued which  would lead to Mr D 
being allowed  fresh referral rights to this service.
Mr D told us he was unhappy with how Barclays dealt with his 2017 complaint. Hes said the 
complaint handler didnt  respond to his letters of 31 August and 1 September  2017. Hes also said 
Barclays didnt log a new complaint on 16 September 2017 (which was a complaint about the lack of 
response to those aforementioned two letters)  when  he phoned, and hes unhappy about  how those  
calls were handled.  Finally  he says he wants a transcript of the call he had with the complaint handler  
on 31 August  2017.
Our rules also set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities,  payment services,  
lending money, paying money by plastic card,  and ancillary banking services. In addition,  we can 
consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator  - the 
Financial Conduct Authority - requires  financial  businesses to do. But that isnt enough  to make it a 
regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the 
legislation from which we derive our powers. 
Im able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances,  for example, if 
the complaint handling was ancillary to something I have  the power to consider. But as my 
ombudsman colleague explained in September 2018, Mr D referred the matters dealt with in the 
September 2017 final response letter to us too late so we dont have the power to consider those  
matters, which means I dont  have the power to consider  his concerns about  the ancillary issue; that 
is, the way his complaint was handled. If the underlying September 2017 complaint had been referred 
in time then, not only would we have been able to consider that, wed also have been able to consider 
how the complaint was handled as part of that.
This leaves the following four issues I can consider  and, as I said,  for clarity Ill summarise  my 
thoughts on those issues here so both sides can just send  their final submissions on these  points in 
response to this decision.
the £2 refund that was offered in August 2017 wasnt paid until October  2018
In August 2017 Barclays offered to cover the £2 cost of Mr D obtaining a copy  of his credit file, but 
didnt do so. Barclays  apologised for its oversight in October 2018 and made  the payment to Mr D 
with the addition of 15p interest  for the delay  in the payment being  made.
Having considered  everything  Im currently satisfied thats a fair outcome to this part of Mr Ds 
complaint. Mistakes can happen and Barclays has explained this was an honest  oversight; there are 
no reasonable grounds for me to make any further  order or award  here.
he cant access  his account  via online banking, and has trouble with the call centres
Our adjudicator explained in his March 2019 letter that Barclays  is satisfied theres  no problem its end 
with Mr Ds access. He said Mr D should phone the online helpdesk  on 0345 600 2323 or send 
Barclays a message through its webpage which he can access without  needing to log on at 
www.barclays.co.uk/help/contact-us/.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ds frustration, theres nothing more we can do here. I understand Mr D has 
said hes tried phoning  Barclays, but I cant see that hes said hes contacted  Barclays on that number 
Ref: DRN26119984and its been unable to help him. It may be it takes some time on the phone for Barclays to deal with 
Mr Ds issue(s) but unfortunately thats what needs to be done.
Barclays has explained that its mortgage  centre  is only open between  certain hours  and if Mr D 
phones outside those hours his call will be answered by a banking team.  I can only suggest  that if Mr 
D has a mortgage query that needs  to be dealt with that he phones whilst  the mortgage centre is 
open.
he wants Barclays to confirm  in writing  the exact date he can apply for a new mortgage due to the 
arrears marked  on his credit file
Mr D would like Barclays to provide an exact date, in writing, that hell be able to apply for a new 
mortgage. I understand why Mr D would like this certainty but its simply not possible.
The information provided by the mortgage adviser  in June  2018 was correct  at that time, and was still 
the case  earlier  this year when our adjudicator  checked with Barclays; Barclays wont grant a 
mortgage to someone with more  than 3 months of mortgage  arrears in the preceding  24 months. So if 
Barclays lending policy remains the same,  and Mr D has no further mortgage arrears, he wont fall 
foul of that part of Barclays lending criteria  once  that 24-month period has passed. 
However, lenders have  the right to review  and revise their policies at any time,  so theres no 
guarantee Barclays wont change that element of its lending criteria in the future. And thats not to say 
any future mortgage application from Mr D wont fall foul of some other part of Barclays lending 
criteria. So its simply not possible for anyone  to give Mr D any certainty of when (or even if) a future  
mortgage application would be successful.
he didnt receive a copy  of the August  2018 final response letter  until March 2019
Mr D said that he didnt receive the August 2018 final response  letter  from Barclays.  Ive seen a copy  
of the letter and Im satisfied it was correctly addressed  to him and theres  no record of it having been 
returned as undelivered  so Barclays would  have had no reason to believe it hadnt reached Mr D as 
the vast majority of post is correctly delivered.
In any event, a further copy of the letter  was sent to Mr D so he now has a copy for his records. 
Having considered  everything  I dont think Barclays did anything wrong here as the letter was 
correctly addressed, and so Im not minded to make any order or award.
my decision
For the reasons  set out, our power to consider this complaint is limited to just the four issues Ive 
explained. And Im currently satisfied those points shouldnt be upheld.
Ill await  any final comments on the points we can consider. Please  ensure  any final comments  are 
with the adjudicator by 23 August 2019 as at that time the case will then come back to me for a final 
decision on the merits of those points. The final submissions dont need to repeat anything already 
said, and shouldnt cover  anything  Ive said we wont be considering. 
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2611998