K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Miss B says AXA France  IARD  (AXA)  mis-sold her PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I havent  set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Bs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
This was a sale by phone. AXA doesnt  have  a recording of the phone call - but this isnt 
surprising given the passage of time. AXA has provided us with a call script, which it 
says was in use around  the time of sale. Looking at this, I think the script makes  it clear 
that the PPI is optional  and that a consumer had to agree  to take it out. And Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me that the phone call with Miss B was fundamentally different 
from this. 
Ref: DRN26277562Im also mindful that Miss B already had her store card account at the time she took out 
PPI  and had likely been using it. So I dont  think Miss B would have been under the 
impression that she had to have PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss B knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B  Ive not seen anything  to persuade me that 
advice was provided during this sale. So AXA didnt  have to check  that the PPI was right 
or suitable for Miss B. But it did have to give Miss B enough clear  and timely  information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss B  for example she 
was eligible for the cover  and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover (Miss B said she suffered with a common  childhood illness  but this 
isnt in my view an existing medical condition which would have been caught by the 
policy terms.) And it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably  thought she was buying 
from the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  
Miss B would have  declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  
she would have  still thought she had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Miss B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Bs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Bs individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Bs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN26277563my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627756