K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Ferratum UK Ltd unfairly recorded a default on his credit file.
background
Mr J took out a loan with Ferratum for £400  in December 2017. The loan was due to be 
repaid in four instalments over four months.  Ferratum sent Mr J a message to tell him that 
the money would  be in his account within two hours, and that it would take the first 
repayment three days later. And it asked Mr J to let it know if the first repayment date was 
incorrect. Mr J messaged  Ferratum back promptly,  to say that the first repayment date 
shouldnt be until late January 2018.  Ferratum  missed Mr Js text, and attempted  to collect 
the first payment three days after the loan was advanced.
Mr J says he made numerous attempts to contact Ferratum. But it was only in early 
January 2018  that it finally confirmed that it had amended the first repayment  date to the 
date Mr J had specified. And the effect of this was that the loan cost around £200 more than 
the amount set out in the loan agreement. Mr J wasnt  happy about paying the extra amount, 
so he complained to Ferratum in January 2018. When  Ferratum  tried to collect the first 
instalment on the date Mr J had specified, payment was declined,  and Mr J hasnt made any 
payments since. After sending Mr J a default  notice, Ferratum eventually recorded  a default 
on Mr Js credit file.
Ferratum responded  to Mr Js complaint in September  2018.  It said that it was willing to 
waive all interest and charges on the loan as a gesture of goodwill. And it said that once Mr J 
had repaid the £400 he borrowed, it would  arrange for his credit  file to be amended to show  
a satisfied default.
Mr J says hed be happy to repay the £400.  But he believes that its unfair  that Ferratum isnt 
willing to remove the default it recorded  on his credit file. Hes pointed  out that the default 
was recorded  when Ferratum knew that the account was in dispute.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said, in 
summary, that after an initial mistake in trying to collect  the first payment in December 2017,  
Ferratum had tried to collect it on the date Mr J requested in January 2018.  But payment 
was declined, and Ferratum hadnt  received any payments from Mr J since  then. So she 
didnt think Ferratum had acted unfairly  in registering  the default.
Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicators view,  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for similar reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Ferratum failed to act on Mr Js original text message about the first 
repayment date.  And it wasnt  until it amended the first repayment date that it would have 
been apparent  to Mr J that the loan was going to be much more expensive  than hed 
originally been  told. By that time, hed had the money for around  two weeks.  
Ref: DRN24804192I have some sympathy for Mr J. I can see how the discovery that the loan was going  to cost 
significantly more than he expected would have  come  as a shock. And I can understand why 
he disputed the amount  due. But hed borrowed the £400, knowing that it was repayable 
over four months. And even though  I can understand why Mr J was unhappy  about  the 
increase in the total amount of interest due, hes paid nothing  at all. So regardless of the 
dispute about the interest due, Mr J didnt back the money he borrowed within  the agreed 
time. This means that the default correctly  reflects the state of his account.
As Ive said above,  Ferratum has offered  to waive all interest and charges on the loan. I cant  
reasonably require it to do more than that. If I were  to require Ferratum to remove  the default 
altogether, that wouldnt accurately reflect the history of the account. Once Mr J has repaid 
the £400 that he borrowed, Ferratum has said it will mark  the default  as satisfied. And if Mr J 
wishes, he may place a notice of correction on his credit file. Such action enables 
prospective lenders  to take into account the background to an adverse entry.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2480419