K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside  a cash reserve  account.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out alongside a cash  
reserve account (a revolving credit  facility)  in 2002. Mr and Mrs Hs original limit was 
£10,000. 
The policy covered Mr H only.  It covered Mr H if he was unable to work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event  of a successful claim the PPI could have 
paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim. The policy also included  life cover.
The monthly cost of the policy  was calculated as 25p for every  £100 outstanding on the cash  
reserve account. In the event  of a successful claim the monthly benefit was 2% of the 
amount outstanding on the cash reserve account (at the beginning of a claim) plus the return  
of the premium payment. 
More than one of our adjudicators has looked at this complaint.  The adjudicator  who 
reviewed it most recently didnt uphold the complaint, as they didnt think the policy was mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed,  so the complaint was passed for an ombudsman  to consider and 
issue a final decision.
While the complaint was waiting  an ombudsmans  decision, in 2017, following a Supreme 
Court judgment, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued some new rules about how 
businesses should  deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
In light of the above Northern Bank  then offered  to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. This was for the high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) it received and didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about. 
Northern Bank offered  compensation  of £835.26. This was made up of the excess  
commission that Mr and Mrs H was charged on the PPI premiums and additional 
compensation for them being out of pocket of this money.
Mr and Mrs H thought  this was low and were unhappy as Northern Bank hadnt explained 
how the compensation had been  worked out. Mr and Mrs H also still felt the PPI had been 
mis-sold and wanted a refund of everything  they had paid. 
One of our adjudicators asked Northern Bank for confirmation of how the commission  
compensation had been  calculated. After reviewing the information  Northern Bank  provided,  
he considered  that it had worked out the compensation fairly. 
Ref: DRN26395852As Mr and Mrs Hs complaint still remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
I will look at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in two parts. 
First I will consider whether the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Second, whether Northern Banks offer of compensation for the unfair level of commission 
and profit share it received,  is fair.
the sale of the cash reserve  account  PPI policy in 2002
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the sale of the PPI policy. Ill 
explain why.
Northern Bank has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs original paperwork from when they 
took out the cash reserve account. 
Within the cash  reserve  application form and credit  agreement  that Mr and Mrs H have 
completed and signed  there is a section for PPI. There  is a yes or no option for the PPI 
and yes has been ticked.
All things  considered I think Northern Bank  made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out to protect Mr H only.  
Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. And from the information 
Mr and Mrs H have given us about  their circumstances, it seems to have been  right for Mr H 
at the time. 
I can see that Mr H was eligible for the policy and its unlikely he would  have been  affected 
by any of the main  things  the policy didnt cover. 
Mr and Mrs H have told us that they didnt receive any sick pay if they were unable to work 
because of an accident or sickness. They  also didnt  have any savings or other  insurance  
policies in place  that they could have used to meet their repayments. 
The PPI, in the event Mr H had a successful  claim for accident, sickness or unemployment 
would have paid out for up to 12 months  per claim. So, I think  the cover could have provided 
a useful benefit at what  could have  been  a difficult time.  The policy also included  life cover.  
All things  considered I cant say that the advisers  recommendation was unsuitable.
Im not sure that Mr and Mrs H was given all of the information about the PPI policy  at the 
time it was taken out, for example I cant be sure how clearly  the cost and benefit were 
Ref: DRN26395853explained. But I think they chose to take out the policy so it appears that they wanted this 
type of cover. The policy was suitable  for Mr H and I dont think  theres anything  in the 
information they didnt have that would have put them off taking out the cover  for Mr H. So 
I think that they would  have  taken  it for Mr H if they had all of the right information.
I note, from reviewing Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that they say that when  they took out a later 
loan to settle this cash  reserve  account,  they were  told that the PPI on their mortgage 
account was enough to cover the mortgage and the cash reserve  account. So Mr and Mrs H 
feel they have  been mis-sold this policy. I disagree.  
Had Mr H been out of work for a lengthy  period then I think  he would have struggled  to meet  
the cash reserve account repayments.  The PPI sold alongside  the cash reserve  account  was 
designed to protect  the repayments towards  that account. And Mr H wouldnt have been able 
to meet  those payments  using  the mortgage PPI policy as that PPI policy provided a benefit 
that was just enough to protect  the mortgage  repayments.
Overall, I dont  think Northern Bank  mis-sold Mr and Mrs H PPI in 2002  alongside  their cash 
reserve account.
what has Northern Bank  offered?
Following the FCA issuing some new rules  about how businesses  should deal with 
complaints about  PPI, Northern Bank  has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. And this is because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Northern Bank 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know that, after receiving Northern Banks offer of compensation, Mr and Mrs H felt the 
amount was low. And they were  unsure how Northern Bank had worked  it out.
I agree  that Northern  Banks letter isnt the clearest  and only tells Mr and Mrs H the 
amount that it will be paying  them. But having  now reviewed what Northern Bank  has 
offered, I would like to assure Mr and Mrs H that it has been worked out correctly.  
Northern Bank worked out the commission offer by looking at the PPI premium 
Mr and Mrs H were charged  each month  and working out what the commission and profit 
share rate was on each premium. And if Mr and Mrs H paid anything  above  50% in 
commission or profit share, Northern Bank has refunded this back. And Northern Bank has 
added 8% simple interest (per year) on any amounts that Mr and Mrs H overpaid,  as 
compensation for them being out of pocket of that money.
Having looked  at its offer, it includes everything  I would expect to see. 
I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont  be telling 
Northern Bank to do anything more.   
Ref: DRN26395854my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, the cash reserve account PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold  so 
Northern Bank Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
For the reasons  above I think Northern Bank Limited has correctly  worked  out what it needs 
to pay Mr and Mrs H. 
Northern Bank Limited should update and pay its offer to Mr and Mrs H if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2639585