K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  declined his chargeback  claim. 
Background
Mr H bought goods from a merchant online totalling £3,207.98 but says he didnt receive  the 
delivery. Mr H contacted the merchant but it said the delivery  had been signed  for. 
On 24 November 2018 Mr H contacted  Halifax and asked  it to raise a chargeback  claim. 
Halifax says it wrote to Mr H on 24 November 2018  to request more details about his claim 
but didnt receive  a response. Halifax sent Mr H another letter on 19 December 2018 and 
received his response on 8 January 2019. 
On 8 January  2019 Halifax refunded the payment to Mr Hs credit card and sent the 
information hed provided on for consideration. The merchants  bank  decided  to defend the 
claim and provided evidence that someone  had signed for the items at Mr Hs address. As a 
result, Halifax took the refund back on 6 March 2019. 
Mr H complained and Halifax  responded on 8 March 2019. Halifax didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and said its decision not to refund the disputed items stood. Mr H referred  his 
complaint to our service but the investigator wasnt persuaded  that Halifax had made a 
mistake. Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says Halifaxs decision not to refund  the disputed transaction  isnt fair and that his 
signature doesnt match the one provided by the merchant as proof of delivery. Whilst I dont 
doubt what Mr H says,  I have to take the other facts of the case  into account.
When Mr H raised  the chargeback claim Halifax sent the information he provided on 
8 January 2019 to the merchants bank. The merchants bank then contacted  the merchant 
for its comments. The merchant provided  a copy of the signature used to sign for the items.  
The merchants evidence  shows  a large  and well known courier  firm delivered the goods and 
that three  items were signed for on 31 October 2018. 
I appreciate Mr H says the signature  doesnt match his but the other evidence provided  is 
strong and I think Halifaxs decision not to pursue the chargeback  claim further was 
reasonable in light of what if found. 
Mr H has also raised concerns about  how his chargeback request was handled.  But Ive 
looked at all the available evidence and I havent  seen any evidence of a delay. I can see 
Halifax wrote  to Mr H on 24 November 2018 but that it didnt receive the information 
requested until 8 January 2019. Ive also looked at Halifaxs contact notes but there isnt 
anything to show Mr H had to routinely  chase it for progress or updates. Im satisfied Halifax 
progressed the chargeback claim  without any unreasonable delays. Overall, I thought  the 
service provided was responsive and good.  
Ref: DRN26302922Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but as Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling  it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2630292