K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a LifeChoices SicknessChoice  and a 
LifeChoices UnemploymentChoice policy.
background
Mr A was sold the above policies during a financial planning review in August 2009. The 
policies were designed to provide a monthly  benefit of £365 for up to 12 months if Mr A was 
off work sick or lost his job. 
The policies worked differently to typical Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) policies in that 
the benefit wasnt linked to a specific product and the policies werent related to a credit 
agreement. Instead the benefit from the policies would have covered all of Mr As main 
monthly liabilities. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. Mr A didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. I appreciate Mr A will be 
disappointed by this outcome, but I will go on to explain why Ive reached this decision.
First, Ive considered whether Mr A was eligible for the policies. Based on Mr As age, work 
and residence  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied  Mr A was eligible for the policies.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Mr A was given  a choice about whether to take the 
policies out. HSBC should have  made  it clear  to Mr A that the policies were optional  and 
should only have  been applied to the account  if Mr A agreed to take them  out. Mr A says he 
was told that he needed to take the policies out otherwise  his parents would have to pay the 
loan off if he died and that the advisor  said he didnt have  any sick pay (even  though he had 
cover through work).
Of course,  I cant  know for sure what took place during  the sale. So, Ive thought  about 
everything Mr A and HSBC have  told us and looked to the documents  from the time of the 
sale to help me decide what is more likely  to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the financial  review  documents completed at the time of the sale. Theres 
nothing to indicate in these documents that the policies were compulsory. And I can see that 
Mr A completed and signed an application  form in order  to take these policies out and that 
he didnt take out other  types  of protection policies. He also completed a separate direct 
debit for the premiums  to be taken out. And I note that the loan had already  been approved  
before the review  was carried out.
So, I think HSBC did make it clear  that the policies were optional  and that they were only 
applied to Mr As account because  he chose  to take them  out. And while  I appreciate what 
Mr A has told us, I havent seen sufficient  evidence to conclude that its more  likely  that Mr A 
was pressured  to take these policies out.
Ref: DRN23718452Given the documents Ive seen from the time of the sale, I think  HSBC recommended  the 
policies to Mr A. This means HSBC had to take adequate  steps to ensure the policies were  
suitable for Mr A. Mr A says that the policies were  of little or no use to him because the 
benefit didnt come close to replacing  his income  if he couldnt work.  However,  I think  the 
policies were suitable for Mr A. I say this because:
-Mr A would have been entitled to limited employee sick pay if he was off work sick. 
He would have  received  8 weeks full pay followed by 8 weeks  half pay. It doesnt 
appear that this information was available to the advisor at the time of the sale.  
However, in any event, the policies would have provided a monthly  benefit for up to 
12 months and so it would  have been  for a much longer period  of time than Mr As 
sick pay. Although  I understand  that the monthly  benefit didnt replace all of Mr As 
income, from the evidence Ive seen, the benefit would have been sufficient to cover  
his main monthly liabilities at the time of the sale and this is what  Mr A appears to 
have wanted from the policies at the time of the sale.
-Mr A didnt  appear to have been  affected  by the terms in the policies which  could 
have made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim  under the policies.
-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the policies were unaffordable  for Mr A.
-Mr A could  have cancelled the policies at any time without losing out financially. I 
understand that Mr A has been  paying  for the policies despite  his loan ending. 
However, as the monthly benefit wasnt linked  to the loan, the monthly benefit would 
still have been  available  to him if he was off work sick or lost his job even after his 
loan ended. Ive seen  copies of letters from HSBC asking Mr A to review his policies 
and to contact  them  if his circumstances have changed. It is for Mr A to let HSBC  
know if he would like to cancel the policies if he feels, for example, that the policies 
are no longer suitable for him. 
As well as taking steps to ensure the policies were suitable for Mr A, HSBC also had to 
provide Mr A with clear information to enable him to make  an informed decision about 
whether to take these policies out. In particular, they should have highlighted the main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policies as well as the costs/benefit. 
I cant say that HSBC gave Mr A all of the information as clearly as they should have but this 
in itself doesnt mean that the policies were mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether Mr A would  have  decided against  taking  the policies out if he had been given all of 
the information as clearly  as he should have. And I dont think better information about the 
policies would have  changed his mind  about  taking them out. I say this for the same  reasons 
that I think the policies were suitable  for him.
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think  HSBC mis-sold Mr A these 
policies.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC  needs  to give Mr A some  of the commission  he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling,  and rules  and guidance only apply if the policy was related 
to a credit  agreement that was covered by the Consumer Credit Act. I note what Mr A says 
about the policies being PPI policies and that they were sold to him to protect  his loan. But 
while Mr As policy was sold around the same time as he took out a loan and he could use 
any money he got from a successful claim on the policies to make  the loan repayments, it 
Ref: DRN23718453wouldnt be considered  a related agreement. The policy was sold to cover  all his liabilities at 
the time,  which included  the loan and other expenses. If hed made  a successful claim, the 
money would  have been paid into Mr As bank account  not directly  towards  the loan. So, I 
dont think the rules about paying back commission apply in Mr As case.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2371845