K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they dont have  enough information about  the charges that The 
Mortgage Business  Plc (TMB) refunded to their account. Mr and Mrs D want  a full audited 
review of their account.
background 
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage  with TMB. In December 2015 TMB refunded £811 to their 
account and they assumed that there  would be no further charges on the account.  Then  in 
February 2018 TMB told Mr and Mrs D that it charged fees and management charges of 
£439.82 from 1 January  2009 and some  of these would be refunded to their account. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they wrote to TMB follow up on this but they were ignored until they 
eventually got a letter in July 2018 which didnt provide the information  they wanted.  
Mr and Mrs D wanted a simple table setting out the breakdown of these charges and copies 
of statements and notifications setting out the application and removal of the charges.
TMB said in a letter to Mr and Mrs D of 20 June 2018 that it conducted a review of its 
charges in 2015 and refunded £811.  It conducted a further review  in 2018 which resulted in 
a refund of £439.82. It says that included in this refund of nine charges were  eight  charged  
before the 2015 refund.  In its letter in June 2018  it said that it was conducting a further 
review. TMB  then re-credited further fees and interest of £322.30  at the end of June 2018. 
TMB believes that it did nothing wrong but offered £50 as compensation for confusion  in its 
response. 
Our adjudicators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld and that there was 
sufficient information  in the documentation  provided by TMB for Mr and Mrs D to work out 
what the refunds  were  for. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint began with Mr and Mrs Ds concern  that that TMB might be adding  further 
charges to their account without their knowledge. TMB had refunded  charges in 2015 and on 
27 February 2018 TMB told Mr D that they were  crediting £439.82 to the mortgage account  
which would show on the next statement. The letter said that the total fees being credited to 
the account was £315.  I note that the letter says If you would like a more detailed 
breakdown of how these amounts have been  calculated, pleas call us. The letter  then gave 
a number and opening times for the phone line. That letter  then gave further information 
about how the credit would  be applied  and about claiming for distress or additional costs. 
TMB sent Mrs D a similar letter dated 5 April 2018.
Mr and Mrs D wrote to TMB on 12 March looking for a statement of all fees applied to the 
account since 2009. Mr and Mrs D then wrote to TMB  on 15 June  2018  saying that he 
understood that in December 2015 all charges had been refunded  and as there were  no 
charges notified  after that date they could not understand how these charges had arisen. I 
understand from that letter  that Mr and Mrs D had other issues  with TMB.  Mr and Mrs D 
Ref: DRN27760512asked for a statement of charges that applied since the beginning of the mortgage  and 
copies of letters detailing  management charges and their reason for applying them. 
TMB wrote on 20 June 2018  to clarify  that the refunds  werent to charges  after 2015 and that 
only one had been raised since then in 2016  but that the writer was conducting a further 
review of fees. This resulted in a further letter of 25 June saying that TMB were recrediting 
the account with £322.30  and the writer offered to answer any questions  and provided a 
number and extension. Mr and Mrs D asked for a list of charges applied  to the account to 
date which  TMB supplied  on 25 July together with the amounts and dates  of refunds. But 
Mr and Mrs D wanted a breakdown of those refunds.
It seems  that over a number of years and for various reasons TMB reviewed the charges it 
had raised on accounts. From the letters I have seen it appears to have told Mr and Mrs D 
that it was recrediting  or refunding these charges with interest and asking them  to contact by 
phone if they had questions about  them. I assume that phone contact would have helped 
Mr and Mrs D identify what the charges were  for. It seems that Mr D didnt  communicate  with 
TMB by phone so didnt  get that information.  I didnt see that Mr D actually asked for that 
information by letter and it may be that TMB would  have facilitated giving them that 
information had it been asked for. Instead  Mr and Mrs D asked for an audit of all their 
charges and refunds. 
So, on the one side it seems that TMB was willing to provide the information on each review 
but on the other hand Mr and Mrs D wanted  TMB  to go back and provide  them  with a 
complete view from the start. There are other issues between  the parties that dont impinge 
on this complaint and I note that Mr and Mrs D dont wish to talk with TMB by phone. 
Mr and Mrs D should be able to work  out what the refunded charges relate to. The TMB  
correspondence indicates that it was willing to provide that information  in relation to each  set 
of refunds but that it didnt  feel it had to do what Mr and Mrs D required which  was to provide 
a full audited review of his account.  TMBs offer as set out in its correspondence with 
Mr and Mrs D seems reasonable and so I cant fairly  uphold  this complaint. The refunded  
charges seem to have  been properly applied to the account. I did note that some of the 
correspondence between  Mr and Mrs D and TMB was at cross-purposes  and TMB 
conceded there was some confusion and offered £50 compensation which seems 
appropriate.  
In order to assist Mr and Mrs D I asked TMB to provide me with a full list of the charges that 
were raised on the account, when they were raised and when they were refunded which  
should give a full view of the charges/refunds on the account that Mr and Mrs D wanted.   Ive 
provided that to Mr and Mrs D and I hope  that assists them  further.
I realise that Mr and Mrs D have other issues with TMB including in relation to an arrears 
payment arrangement and the provision  of information to credit reference  agencies, but my 
decision relates to the points made  in their complaint form that they asked us to look at. For 
the reasons set out above I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.     
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN27760513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2776051