K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  a home emergency insurance
policy with Aviva Insurance  Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
On 9 March  2019, Mrs S made a claim under her policy after she found her roof was 
leaking. Mrs S is voice impaired and so logged  the claim by way of a webchat.  It was agreed 
that the claim would  be covered and contractors  would  attend the following day to put a 
tarpaulin over the roof. However, the chat was apparently cut off before the representative  
could confirm the appointment.
Mrs S contacted Aviva again and an appointment was made  for 23 April 2019.  However,  this
was postponed as Mrs S was in hospital.  When Mrs S was able to contact Aviva again
another appointment was made for 1 May 2019  but this was cancelled by the contractors.
Mrs S tried to reschedule with them but they had no email address and didnt respond to text
messages. Mrs S asked  Aviva to liaise with the contractors for her, given that she is unable
to talk on the phone. Aviva responded to say Mrs S should arrange for a relative  to contact
the claims teams to reschedule the appointment by phone and it could  not liaise with
relevant departments for her.
I understand that eventually another appointment was made for 10 May 2019.  A contractor
attended on that day and said that the cap flashing on the roof next door had come  away
and this was causing water  ingress to Mrs Ss property. He carried out a temporary repair  by
adding some lead sealant.
Mrs S says the leak has continued  and further  damage has been done  to the inside of her
home due to Avivas  delay in responding to the claim. She says it had told her during the first
webchat when  she first reported  the claim that it would cover the roof with tarpaulin and she
wants this done.
Mrs S has also made the following points:
She has struggled to communicate with Aviva and its agents throughout. She made
attempts to use the online chat but kept getting cut off. Mrs S says she tried four
times and Aviva didnt  contact her at any point and it would not let her reschedule
appointments by email  or webchat.
The delay in coming out has meant the damage  inside her property has got worse.
Her internal  ceiling is at risk of collapsing and the internal damage needs to be
repaired.
Her home insurer wont cover anything, as the problem  is from her neighbours
property.
She has other cover with Aviva and is concerned that shell  have problems with any
claims arising under those  policies given the way Aviva has refused to take account
of her particular circumstances.
Aviva says its records confirm that Mrs Ss online chat on 9 March 2019 was cut off before
an appointment was made to come and inspect the roof. Its agent  explained  that it would not
Ref: DRN27927412cover the internal damage to the ceiling and it could  arrange for an engineer to attend and
place tarpaulin  over the roof to prevent any further  water ingress.  The agent advised  she
was able to offer an appointment  for the following day but there was no response  from
Mrs S and the chat was disconnected  around 20 minutes later. As Mrs S neither accepted
nor declined the appointment, nothing was arranged.
Aviva says it has done all it can in accordance with the policy terms, as the policy  doesnt
cover the water damage  only a temporary emergency repair,  which it has done.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that the complaint be
upheld, as he was satisfied that Aviva  had acted fairly. He also did not agree that Aviva
should cover  any of the internal water  damage, as the policy doesnt cover such  repairs.
Mrs S does not accept  the investigators  assessment.  She says he is biased and has not
taken proper account of the severity of the incident and the effect on Mrs S. The ongoing
problem has caused  mould in her property and she is vulnerable to breathing issues, as are
her children.
Since Mrs S first raised the complaint there has been a further  leak and Mrs S contacted
Aviva again  in October 2019. Mrs S says the sealant hadnt worked. She was able to
complete the claim via the online chat and Avivas contractors came and fitted a tarpaulin
straight away, which apparently stopped any further ingress of water. Mrs S says this
supports her complaint that the internal damage  to her property would not have been  so bad,
had Aviva done this in the first place.  At the time she first reported the claim, there was just
one small crack in the ceiling, which could have easily been plastered over but now it will
cost around £500,  as the damage has spread  to the toilet  cubicle as well.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S is voice impaired  and so cant communicate  by telephone. She is able to
communicate by webchat and email.  Avivas website allows a claim to be lodged  by web
chat but this proved to be difficult  for Mrs S, as she kept getting cut off.
Aviva says that Mrs S didnt respond  on the webchat for 20 minutes  and the chat was
terminated before an appointment could  be made.  It suggests there was nothing  it could
have done about the matter. However, having  viewed the transcript  of the webchat on 9
March 2019 it seems clear to me that Mrs S had lodged the claim and Avivas  representative
had confirmed it was covered.  The representative  explained that tarpaulin would be put over
the roof to prevent further ingress of water, as the policy doesnt cover permanent  repairs.
The representative asked  Mrs S if shed like someone out to do that the next day to put up
the tarpaulin and Mrs S confirmed she would. The chat appears to have cut off before  the
claims-handler could  finalise the appointment but I can understand from Mrs Ss point of
view that she thought this was in hand  and someone  would  attend  her property the following
day.
I also note that Mrs S emailed Aviva  later that same day to say an appointment had been
agreed but the chat had disconnected and she was not contacted back.  Mrs S sent that
Ref: DRN27927413email again on 14 March 2019,  complaining that no one had responded or been out to her
property. However, Aviva  didnt contact  her in response. However, I have  seen that Aviva
made a note on its file of Mrs Ss voice impairment on 14 March  2019. Mrs S was then
apparently hospitalised for several  days.
Aviva confirmed receipt of Mrs Ss complaint on 4 April 2019 but still did not respond  about
the appointment. After her release from hospital  Mrs S contacted  Aviva again  on 19 April
2019 and tried to make  an appointment again.
I dont know why the first webchat was disconnected and I cant say that this was Avivas
fault. However, I think Aviva should  have done  more to follow this up with Mrs S when the
web chat ended. A claim had been established under the policy   which  covers  home
emergency events  - and a course of action  agreed. Mrs S followed this up twice  by email
and yet Aviva didnt attend  or attempt to confirm the appointment.
Having finally managed to make  an appointment there were then further issues
communicating with the contractors. Aviva  said its contractors wouldnt communicate by text
or email and Aviva told Mrs S to get her daughter to contact them for her, when  she next
visited her. Aviva was aware of Mrs Ss voice impairment and this was not an acceptable
response.
As well as a general  obligation to act fairly and reasonably, Aviva has a specific legal
responsibility to assist Mrs S and make reasonable adjustments to allow  her to access  the
cover provided under  her policy. I can understand why Mrs S is so unhappy with the
responses she received  from Aviva  about  trying  to make and then reschedule an
appointment.
Because of this, it took two months from when Mrs S first tried to report  this claim to a
contractor actually finally going out.
Aviva had told Mrs S that tarpaulin would be put up to prevent further  leaks  into her property.
The policy does only cover a temporary repair, in order  to alleviate the immediate
emergency  i.e. stop water getting  into the property. It is then for the policyholder to
arrange a permanent solution.  Tarpaulin is listed in the policy as an example of the type of
temporary repairs Avivas contractors might carry out. However,  the contractor added some
sealant as a temporary repair  instead.
This might have been appropriate. However, any temporary repair should hold for a
reasonable time. Mrs S says the leak continued  after this and in October  2019  she had to
make another claim and tarpaulin was put up, which she says has now stopped water
leaking into her property.  As Aviva had told Mrs S that tarpaulin would be put up when it
attended on 10 March  2019, I can see why Mrs S is unhappy this was not done until October
2019.
Mrs S says the internal damage to her property is significantly worse due to these delays
and has asked for the internal ceiling  damage  to be repaired. Mrs S has provided
photographs showing  a large crack in the ceiling  and part of the plaster ceiling coming away.
Some of this damage would have been  caused by the initial  leak in March  2019. However, it
seems inevitable to me that it would have been made worse by any rainfall during the two
month delay in Aviva attending (between  9 March and 10 May 2019). And I am also
satisfied the temporary  repair carried out on 10 May 2019 was not effective, as a further
claim had to be made and tarpaulin  was finally put up in October 2019. Further water
Ref: DRN27927414damage was caused as a result of this.
Mrs S has estimated the cost of the repairs to the ceiling to be £500. Ive not seen any
quotes to support this but it would  not seem unreasonable. As mentioned, some of the
damage would have been caused  by the initial leak and not by Avivas delays and I have to
take account of this.
Having taken everything into account, including  the avoidable and unnecessary  distress  and
inconvenience caused to Mrs S by the failures  in the claims process,  I consider that a global
award to include  an amount  towards  the cost of the repairs and compensation for the way
the matter was dealt  with is appropriate.  Overall, I consider Aviva should  pay the sum of
£600 to Mrs S.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold the complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to pay £600
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the handling of the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mrs S has confirmed  she accepts my provisional  decision. 
Aviva has confirmed it has received  my provisional  decision  and has not added anything 
further. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or arguments,  I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings  that Aviva did not treat Mrs S fairly  and its delays in dealing 
with the claim resulted  in more damage being  done  to her home. Overall, I still consider that 
the sum of £600 compensation is appropriate  to reflect the trouble caused to her and the 
damage done. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to pay Mrs S £600
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the handling of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792741