K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI). Mr and Mrs B say 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them PPI in 1997 and 2008.
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax and at the same time took a 
PPI policy to cover them both (split equally) in the event they were unable  to work 
due to being unwell or being made unemployed.
In January 2003 Mr and Mrs B cancelled their PPI policy. 
Mr and Mrs B redeemed their mortgage  with Halifax in May 2003.
In 2007 Mr and Mrs B took another mortgage  with Halifax. No PPI was sold. 
A further  advance was taken out by Mr and Mrs B in 2008  and at this point they were 
sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan policy (TMPP). TMPP can be split into 
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs B have complained about the PPI cover  only  so 
Ive only looked  at the sale of the PPI element  of the package  in this decision. The 
PPI covered them both (split equally).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why. 
1997 sale
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago so it isnt unusual or surprising  that there is 
no paperwork available from the time.  But it does mean its difficult  for me to know  how the 
PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs B or whether  Halifax gave them  a choice  or not. But 
businesses arent  required to keep information  indefinitely and so it would be unfair  to say 
that Halifax wouldnt have  given Mr and Mrs B a choice, just because it doesnt  have the 
paperwork. Where we have very limited information  or evidence  I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities.
Mr and Mrs B say it was implied that was it was always  better  to have the insurance  than 
not. Of course I cant be sure what  was said during the meeting. But as the policy  was 
recommended to them, Halifax may well have said that the PPI was something that would be 
good to have to protect their repayments. But this is different from saying Mr and Mrs B 
needed to take the policy  out. 
Ref: DRN20646542I also note that in 2003 Mr and Mrs B cancelled their PPI as they no longer required it. So I 
think they understood that this was a separate product that they didnt need to have  with 
their mortgage. 
2008 sale
Halifax hasnt been able to give me much of the paperwork from when this PPI was sold 
either  but again, I dont think thats surprising considering the sale took place a long time 
ago. And it doesnt  necessarily mean  it was mis-sold. 
Based on what I know about Halifaxs general  sales process around the time this policy was 
sold to Mr and Mrs B it would have normally have made it clear the PPI was optional and it 
would have got their consent before adding the cover. 
Halifax has given us a document Mr and Mrs B signed as part of the mortgage application 
process. Its called Your  Declaration and goes into some detail  about  the TMPP. Halifax 
has also provided the a Demands  and Needs Statement as well as its internal records  
which suggest it discussed Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances in relation to the policy. So I think 
there is likely  to have been  a conversation  about  the PPI before Mr and Mrs B signed the 
declaration.
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  offer from 2007 as well as their further  
advance offer from 2008. Both state  that they dont need to take out any insurance with 
Halifax. And based on the fact they cancelled  their PPI in 2003  - and didnt take out PPI with 
their mortgage in 2007 - I think its likely Mr and Mrs B knew that it wasnt a compulsory 
product. 
Mr and Mrs B say it was again  implied it was always better to have the insurance. But I think 
its likely  this was because Halifax were  once again  recommending the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. 
both sales  
So on balance, I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take 
the PPI policies and they chose to take them out in 1997 and 2008   although I can 
understand why they cant remember this now as both sales  were some time ago. 
As Halifax recommended both policies to Mr and Mrs B it needed to make sure it was right 
for them  based  on what  Ive seen  of their circumstances  in both 1997  and 2008, I think  
they were.  There isnt anything that meant  they werent eligible for the cover   or that they 
might have been affected by some of the limitations or exclusions to the policies  that could 
have made  it difficult for them to make a successful claim.
Ive considered the sick pay that Mr and Mrs B have  told us they had. But these PPI policies 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay they might have got  and its likely it would 
have paid out for longer  than their full sick pay would have lasted as well as offering  
unemployment cover  to them both. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also told us about some  savings that they had. But having the policy in 
place wouldve meant any savings they had could be used for other essential living expense 
at what was likely to be a difficult time financially. And I note that the further advance  taken  
in 2008 was for debt consolidation. Mr and Mrs Bs borrowing was a major  financial 
Ref: DRN20646543commitment and their home  would have been  at risk if the repayments were  not kept up to 
date. So I think the PPI would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI policies wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take them  out - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover  and it looks like they were affordable. And given what Ive said about the 
policies being  right for them,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
them off buying  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.  
Hannah Eykel 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2064654