K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2011 to 
cover a hire purchase agreement. Miss R says First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
First Response had to make Miss R aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her hire purchase  agreement.  Miss R took her hire purchase agreement 
alongside a car purchase. In order to get finance for the purchase,  she needed to speak with 
First Response over the phone. Ive been  able to listen to a call recording of the 
conversation between Miss R and the First Response advisor. And Im satisfied that the 
advisor explains that Miss R has a choice about  purchasing the PPI. The advisor  gives  
Miss R a quote for the finance with PPI and without PPI and asks Miss S how shed like to 
proceed.
The credit agreement that Miss R agreed to also refers to the PPI as Optional Payment 
Protection Insurance. Taking all this into consideration,  Im satisfied that First Response  
gave Miss R a choice about purchasing  PPI and she agreed to take it out.
First Response recommended the PPI to Miss R so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Miss R has told us she would  have been  entitled to some sick pay from her employer at 
the time she took the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Rs sick 
pay, and for longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Rs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information First Response gave miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said - but these points dont change my decision. 
Ive also thought about the commission Miss R paid on her PPI  and whether 
First Response treated her unfairly. 
First Response has told us that the commission for Miss Rs PPI was less than half of what  
she paid for each premium. Weve  looked  at how First Response has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss Rs commission was less than 
Ref: DRN26083872half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell her about the 
commission  so I dont  think  First Response  treated  her unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Miss R back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608387