K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that RAC Insurance Limited  provided poor service when he claimed on his 
motor breakdown policy whilst abroad. 
background
Mr H has a breakdown policy with RAC through his bank. An engine  warning light came  on 
whist he and Mrs H were  travelling abroad on 22 September 2018.  He says when he called 
for help,  an advisor  said he wasnt insured and would have to pay £59 to get assistance.  As 
the car then started,  Mr H managed to get it to a garage unassisted.
During the return journey on 6 October  2018, the same fault occurred. Mr H called for help 
again. After being told again  that he wasnt insured, an advisor then said he was and that 
someone would call him back. He says he and Mrs H had to wait more than three hours  for 
help. He says although hed given  RAC  the right location, the breakdown service had the 
wrong details. The car was finally repaired  at the roadside. Mr H says had it not been fixed, 
RAC had arranged car hire in the wrong location. And he says due to the time it took to get 
the car repaired,  he and Mrs H had to cancel their hotel  and find somewhere to stay nearby. 
RAC says it has no record of Mr H contacting it on 22 September  2018. It says it was 
contacted by insurer  A on 6 October 2018 at around 4pm.  Insurer  A said Mr H had called it 
in error,  as his breakdown cover  was with RAC. RAC says it then called Mr H to confirm  his 
location, which was passed on to the breakdown service. RAC says the engineer arrived at 
around 5.45pm.  He should have arrived sooner, but it thinks  he recorded the wrong location 
details. RAC  says as Mr H didnt need  a hire car, he wasnt affected by where it was located.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Hs complaint. She noted that the number hed called 
was for insurer A, but his banks  breakdown cover  was with RAC. The bank later provided 
details that showed it used to offer breakdown  cover  with insurer  A, but hadnt  done so since  
2011. It said all customers were advised of the change. The investigator  said RAC wasnt  to 
blame for the time it took insurer A to contact RAC. She thought RACs engineer was with 
Mr H within  a reasonable time of it knowing about  the breakdown. 
Mr H said he got the number he used from the documents  provided by the bank. He said he 
had to wait for three and a half hours for help, not an hour and a half, as the investigator 
thought. He said he wanted  the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the details given  by Mr H, his bank and RAC, it seems he didnt use RACs number 
when he called for help on 22 September 2018. The bank has explained that it hasnt  used 
insurer A for breakdown cover for several  years.  It says all customers were  told about RAC  
being the new provider from 2011   although insurer A still provides travel insurance cover. 
If Mr H thinks he wasnt  given notice of the change of breakdown  provider, thats an issue  for 
the bank rather  than RAC. 
RACs records show that it didnt get a call from insurer  A on 6 October 2018 until around 
4pm - and that the breakdown service was with Mr H within  two hours.  Its not possible to 
Ref: DRN26720492say what the gap was between Mr H speaking to insurer A and it passing  his details on to 
RAC. But it seems there must have been a delay. That would explain why, despite Mr H 
having called for help as early as 2pm, he and Mrs H were left waiting at the roadside for 
three and a half hours. But theres  no evidence that the delay was RACs fault. 
It looks as though there was a misunderstanding  between the breakdown operator and RAC 
about Mr Hs location. Mr H had provided the right details and the records  show  that RAC 
recorded them correctly.  But it seems at one point  Mr H was told the breakdown service was 
over 180 miles from his location  as was the hire car. Theres nothing in RACs notes about  
that. But despite any error that was made, it seems an engineer  was at the breakdown within  
two hours  of RAC  knowing about it. I dont think that was an unreasonable  response  time.  
It looks as though there would have been  a problem with a hire car should Mr and Mrs H 
have needed one. But as they didnt, they didnt  suffer as the result  of any error RAC made 
about the issue. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs Hs financial loss in cancelling their hotel was due to RAC. The first 
thing that delayed their journey home was the fault with the car reoccurring. That was 
despite Mr H having had it assessed  very recently and it being given the all clear by a 
garage. And if Mr H had got through to RAC  - rather than insurer  A - at the start, the delay it 
seems was caused by insurer A would have been avoided.  In that case,  they probably 
wouldnt have had to change their plans. 
Theres no doubt that Mr and Mrs H had a very stressful experience and that the end of their 
holiday was ruined by that. But based  on the details Ive seen, I dont think Mr H has shown 
that RAC  acted unreasonably, so I cant uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2672049