K820x#14complaint
Mr B disputes an unauthorised transaction on his John Lewis  Financial Services Limited 
account. He feels  John Lewis didnt do enough to try and recover his funds.
background
On 29 August 2018 Mr B paid £1000 as a holding deposit for a vehicle purchase using his 
John Lewis  credit card. He authorised  the transaction using chip and pin. And he received  
the relevant paperwork  from the dealer. On 1 September he completed  the order  and the 
dealer refunded the £1000 deposit.
But a second £1000  was taken from his account  on 31 August.  He wasnt aware of it and 
hadnt authorised  it. So Mr B contacted  John  Lewis and he received a refund. In December  
2018 John Lewis told him the dealer had disputed the chargeback. And the money had been 
taken back from his account. 
Mr B says the second payment  was made  without  his knowledge  or approval. So he wants  
evidence of both £1000  debits made by the dealer. And he wants the second  payment 
reversing.
John Lewis  looked  at the chargeback raised on Mr Bs behalf.  Itd temporarily credited his 
account while investigations were taking place.  John Lewis  said Mr B would need  to provide 
evidence both transactions on 29 August were  due to be refunded. The merchant had 
rejected the chargeback claim because itd refunded  £1000 on 1 September. But John Lewis  
hadnt received  any supporting evidence to show  both transactions were due to be refunded. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with John Lewiss response. So he contacted  our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. John Lewis confirmed both debits had been put through 
on the same  day using the same authorisation code. So the credit  had been  an automatic 
refund of a duplicate  payment. 
Mr B then contacted our service to say the dealer had offered to pay back  the £1000.  But 
hed been charged interest by John Lewis. Our investigator was pleased to see Mr B had 
been returned his holding  deposit. But the error had been made by the dealer. So he 
couldnt hold John Lewis responsible. He didnt think itd done  anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree. His complaint had been about  an unauthorised transaction. John Lewis 
failed to investigate  or use the chargeback properly. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs upset. An unauthorised  payment was taken from his account. He 
feels John Lewis didnt  do enough to investigate and recover his payment. So Ive looked 
very carefully at everything thats happened  to see if John Lewis has made a mistake.  And if 
so what it needs  to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN22404992Mr B authorised a payment of £1000.  But he was told by the dealer it was only to be used as 
a security deposit and would  be forfeit if he decided  not to proceed.  Mr B purchased the 
vehicle so the deposit shouldve been refunded in full. And he feels  John Lewis  didnt 
understand whatd  happened when it processed  the chargeback.
I realise Mr B feels John Lewis shouldve done more. He says it wasnt  his responsibility to 
chase the dealer for confirmation his deposit shouldve been refunded. But its important to 
note chargebacks are decided on the card schemes  rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for John Lewis   or me  to decide whether Mr B or 
the merchant  had the strongest argument.  John Lewis role was to raise the appropriate 
chargeback with the supporting explanation and evidence Mr B had provided.  And from what 
Ive seen thats what its did.
When a chargeback is raised there  is no guarantee of success.  Mr B said hed been charged 
twice. The second  payment was unauthorised. But the merchant provided evidence  to show 
itd refunded the duplicate  payment. John Lewis asked Mr B for evidence  to show  both 
payments were due to be refunded. But he hadnt provided it. 
From what  Ive seen it would appear  Mr Bs payment was processed twice.  So the duplicate 
payment was automatically  refunded.  Mr B asked the dealer for evidence he shouldve 
received a refund of his holding deposit. And I can see the dealer has now agreed to refund 
Mr B £1000 itself. So it would seem the mistake was made  by the dealer. It didnt refund the 
deposit until Mr B asked for evidence to show it shouldve paid back the money.
Mr B is unhappy hes been  charged  interest  while this was sorted  out. But I think  it would be 
unfair to ask John Lewis to refund  this. It wasnt responsible for the unauthorised payment 
being made. 
I realise Mr B will be unhappy with this outcome. He feels  John Lewis shouldve spoken to 
the merchant  who took the unauthorised second payment. And its chargeback  team asked 
the wrong question  so it got the wrong  result. 
But my role is to decide if John Lewis did anything wrong. Based on everything Ive seen  the 
mistake was made by the dealer. Not by John  Lewis. It raised  the chargeback using the 
information Mr B had provided. And it asked for evidence to confirm both payments were 
due to be refunded  rather than just one. So for the reasons Ive given I wont  be upholding 
Mr Bs complaint. And I wont be asking John Lewis to do anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2240499