K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mrs B between  January 
2018 and June 2018. Details of these five loans are as follows:
Loan Taken Repaid Instalments Amount monthly repayment
1 10/01/2018 10/01/2018 12 monthly 900 149.40
2 13/01/2018 outstanding 52 weekly 1000 165.84
3 01/03/2018 24/05/2018 30 weekly 200 57.50
4 29/05/2018 06/06/2018 52 weekly 400 66.34
5 26/06/2018 outstanding 52 weekly 800 132.69
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint in part and thought loan five shouldnt have been 
given. She concluded that by loan five it would have become clear to Satsuma that Mrs B 
was struggling to repay her loans. So she felt it shouldnt have given this loan to her.
Satsuma agreed with our adjudicators recommendations and offered to put things right with 
regards to loan five. Mrs B turned down Satsumas  offer and said that all interest and 
charges for the loans should be given back to her. So as the parties  still do not agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN20590352the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Satsuma asked Mrs B for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. It also says it added additional expenditure to work  out whether loan 
repayments were affordable for Mrs B as a safeguard.
Mrs B took out loan one on 10th January 2018 and then on the same day withdrew  from the 
agreement, repaying  the amount given back.  Three days later she took out loan two for 
£1000 over a term of 52 weeks. There is an amount outstanding still for this loan. Mrs B took 
out loan three on 1st March 2018 for a smaller  amount of £200 and took this out at the same  
time she was repaying loan two. She repaid this early on 24th May 2018. A few days  later 
she took out loan four but again withdrew from this agreement within  a few days, repaying 
back what she had borrowed.
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time and her relatively short borrowing history with Satsuma, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of information  needed  to show  
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information  Mrs B provided  or 
the information Satsuma shouldve been  aware  of (including the credit search results), which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate to start verifying what  Mrs B was saying. So I cant  say 
it was wrong for Satsuma  to have provided  the first four loans. So I dont agree with Mrs B 
that she should have all of the interest  and charges  given back to her for all of her loans and 
I dont uphold this part of her complaint.
But as our adjudicator  explained, by loan five the pattern of Mrs Bs borrowing now showed 
that she was showing  signs that she was struggling to repay her borrowing: 
Loan five was for £800. This amount was for twice  as much as loan three  and was in 
addition to loan two that she was also still paying  back.  When I consider the amount that 
Mrs B was asking to lend overall (loan two and now additionally  loan five), her borrowing 
Ref: DRN20590353had increased  significantly over 6 months  between loan one and when Mrs B asked for 
loan five.
Mrs B was borrowing  in a very short period  after she was repaying her loans and on two 
occasions she withdrew from a loan only to request  a larger amount only days  later.  This 
shows me that she was most  likely unable to repay previous loans without taking out a 
new one and was borrowing  again to fill a gap in her finances.  
I think when I consider these points,  it shows that there was a significant risk that Mrs B 
would be unable to meet her repayments  for loan five because she was showing signs that 
she was struggling  to repay in a sustainable  way. So I think Satsuma was wrong to approve  
loan five. 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan five and I think  Satsuma  should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mrs Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Mrs B still owes Satsuma  some of the principal balance she borrowed on loan 2 and loan 5. 
Satsuma may deduct the outstanding balance of loan 5 from the compensation that is due to 
her. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove  any interest 
and charges, whilst  taking account  of any repayments Mrs B has made  on that loan as 
though they were applied  against the principal sum borrowed.
It is likely  that Mrs B will still need  to repay  an outstanding  amount  to Satsuma. When  
agreeing a repayment plan, I would like to remind Satsuma that it would need to treat Mrs B 
positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN20590354my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
I require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  to pay Mrs B compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2059035