K821x#15complaint
Ms K is unhappy John  Lewis  Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) didnt advise that her 
payment was returned. She said no reason was given for the returned payment, and she 
wasnt told that her card would be blocked as a result.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019. In my provisional  decision I 
said:
In January 2019 Ms K received a statement from John Lewis which  said she hadnt made 
her minimum payment. Ms K says she made  the payment the same  way she always  has, 
using online banking.
John Lewis  confirmed the payment was declined  but it hasnt been able to explain why.
Ms K said she also spoke with her bank, who told her the payment was returned.
John Lewis  said it placed an automatic  block on the credit card,  as it does with all accounts 
when a payment  isnt received. The block is applied by its internal system. 
Ms K is unhappy with the lack of information John Lewis  has provided. She said its not been 
able to explain why the payment was declined, it didnt tell her the credit card would be 
blocked, and its response to her complaint didnt address all the issues.
Our investigator thought John Lewis had acted  reasonably. She explained  it is entitled  to 
place a temporary block to an account  when payment hasnt  been  received. Ms K disagreed  
and, in summary, outlined:
nothing from John  Lewis mentioned her card would be blocked   and she wasnt  told 
she couldnt use the card when  she called  about her returned  payment;
she was unable to use the card when she needed to;
John Lewis hasnt  been able to explain why her payment was returned;
John Lewis handling and investigation of her complaint has been poor.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
John Lewis  says its policy is to always block a credit card where  a payment isnt credited to 
the account on time. Its also said this is an automatic process.  It seems  Ms K did make her 
payment on time, however it was returned.  But given the payment didnt actually credit the 
account, I dont  think  John Lewis treated Ms K unfairly by applying  the block   as this is what 
it would  do for all its customers.
John Lewis  cant explain why the payment didnt go through, and Ms K has said her bank 
told her it was John Lewis fault.  Its not clear why it happened, but Ive not seen anything to 
make me think the error was most likely caused by something Ms K did. So for that reason  
its fair to refund charges  and interest  specifically  relating to that missed  payment. The 
impact on Ms K, though, seems to have been  greater. She had to spend time trying to sort 
the problem out, and wasnt told about  the block when she called John Lewis,  so was 
caused embarrassment when trying to use the card.
Ref: DRN24872372John Lewis  now says it should have done  more to help Ms K  and I agree that it should.
There was no explanation for why the payment wasnt  credited  to Ms Ks account, and it 
didnt let her know that she wouldnt be able to use the card. Its position has changed since  
its final response letter, and it has now offered  to pay £100 in compensation to acknowledge 
the trouble and upset it caused. Considering the impact  the block  had on Ms K, and given 
the lack of information provided to her, Im satisfied £100 is fair compensation for the trouble 
and upset John  Lewis caused.
John Lewis  didnt respond. Ms K responded and indicated she would  be happy to resolve  
the matter how I had suggested.   
So Im now issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has said they dont accept my overall findings, I dont need to discuss them 
any further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint, and require John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited to pay her £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2487237