K821x#15complaint
Mr C says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr C took out in 2002. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Amex disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint  because  I dont  think Amex gave Mr C clear enough 
information about the costs and benefits of the policy.  I think this would have mattered to 
Mr C because at the time he took out his card and policy  he was entitled  to between three 
and six months worth  of sick pay from his employer and I dont think  Mr C wouldve bought 
the policy if Amex  had given him enough information  about it, given his existing cover. So, I 
think Mr C has lost out because of what Amex did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Amexs comments, including what it said about Mr C having  said he 
could rely on friends and family to help him make  his repayments. But he said this on top of 
what he told us about his employee benefits  he didnt say this was all he had to rely on. So 
I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
Amex should put Mr C in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Amex should  find out how much  Mr C would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Amex should then refund the difference between  what  Mr C owes  and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Amex  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
Ref: DRN23560362B.If  when Amex works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI  Mr C 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Amex should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C wouldve 
owed Amex something on his credit  card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.Amex should  tell Mr C what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Amex to take off tax from this interest.  Amex  must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
American Express Services Europe Limited  should put things right by doing  what  Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2356036