K820x#14complaint
Mr W is complaining  about Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited because it didnt 
pay a claim on his critical illness  insurance  policy.
background
In 2002, Mr W took out a life and critical illness insurance policy  thats due to end later this 
year. Sadly, he was recently diagnosed with cancer and underwent extensive treatment. 
When he claimed, Legal and General didnt pay out because  it said his illness didnt meet  
the definition of what was covered by the policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He also felt Mr Ws illness  didnt 
meet the policy definition  for a cancer  claim.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for his case to be reviewed. In 
support of his complaint, hes made the following key points:
Hes been seriously ill and had highly invasive  treatment.  This has had a serious  
impact on his quality of life and everyone hes spoken to, including medical  
professionals, agree  he had a critical illness. Hes also told us hes suffering 
ongoing kidney  problems as a result  of his illness and treatment.
During his initial  conversation  with Legal and General, he was told his claim would  be 
paid. Because  he then went  through the claim process and was declined,  hell now 
need to disclose that in future applications.
His travel  insurance provider clearly considers his illness to be serious  as it settled a 
claim after it prevented him travelling. Its also since applied  an exclusion to his cover 
relating to claims involving cancer.
More recently, hes questioned  whether the policy was mis-sold  in the first place  as it 
hasnt provided  the level of cover he was expecting.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons.
Mr W has made detailed submissions in support of his complaint and Ive read and 
considered these carefully. But I wont try to address every  point raised  in this decision. Ill 
instead concentrate  on the issues I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Ws health  problems and I realise hes 
been going through a very difficult time.
Theres no doubt Mr W has had a very serious illness that involved  highly  invasive and 
unpleasant treatment with a long recovery period,  and that hes still experiencing problems 
as a result. Ive no doubt many people  would describe this as a critical illness.  But its 
important to understand the policy provides cover for a specific range of illnesses and 
Ref: DRN29535732doesnt cover every  serious  illness he could suffer from. It also doesnt cover every  type of 
cancer. 
The range of serious illnesses covered is set out in the policy  terms issued when it was set 
up. These require the following definition to be met for a cancer claim to be payable:
Cancer
Any malignant tumour characterised  by the uncontrolled growth and spread of 
malignant cells and invasion  of tissue.  The term cancer includes Leukaemia  and 
Hodgkins disease but the following are excluded;
All tumours which are histologically described as pre-malignant, as non-
invasive or as cancer in situ.
In other  words, the policy  doesnt cover  cancers that are histologically described  as non-
invasive. Its also relevant to note that it pays out based on the type of cancer rather than the 
nature of the treatment(s) employed.
Ive reviewed the histology report  on Mr Ws tumour.  It was recorded as a low-grade 
transitional cell carcinoma. Crucially,  it also concluded there was no evidence  of invasive 
malignancy.  In my view, the histology  report shows Legal and General was entitled  to take 
the view it was excluded  under the policy terms and to decline the claim.
I understand Mr Ws dissatisfaction  at this outcome and I doubt  this will offer him much  
comfort. But I think its relevant to point  out the cancer definition used in his policy  was 
consistent with that recommended in the Association of British Insurers  (ABI) Statement  of 
Best Practice for Critical Illness  Cover  at the time it was sold. That means  it was also 
consistent with the definition  most other insurers would have been using at the time. So I 
think its unlikely his illness would  have led to a payable claim even if hed taken  cover  with a 
different insurer.
Its unfortunate if Mr Ws initial  conversation  with Legal and General led him to believe his 
claim would be paid.  Although at that time, all it could really  say was that his policy includes 
cover for cancer. I can see why Mr W might  have interpreted that to mean  it would pay out. 
But without sight of the relevant medical evidence, including  the histology  report,  Legal  and 
General wasnt in any position to offer that kind of assurance.
Mr W has pointed  out that hell now need to declare in applications hes had a critical illness 
insurance claim declined  and thats  certainly correct if hes asked that question. But I dont 
think this will cause the kind of problems he may be envisaging. An individuals  claim history 
is normally much more  relevant to other  types of insurance, home  and car for example. 
Decisions about  offering  life and critical illness insurance are generally based on an 
applicants medical  history rather than their claims history.  The questions  asked in an 
application tend to reflect that and Mr W would need  to disclose the problems hes had 
whether or not hed gone through  the formal  claims process with Legal and General.
I note Mr W also has issues  with his kidney function  following his treatment. The policy does 
include cover  for kidney failure, which is defined as:
Ref: DRN29535733End stage  renal  failure presenting as chronic  irreversible failure of both kidneys to 
function, as a result of which  either  regular renal  dialysis or renal transplant  is 
initiated.
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt sound like Mr Ws condition has deteriorated to this extent. 
But if he thinks he does meet this definition, or his health deteriorates  before the policy ends, 
he can contact Legal and General to make another claim.  That would also apply in the 
unfortunate event  that his cancer  returned or he suffered another  of the illnesses covered by 
the policy.
In recent  correspondence, Mr W has indicated he may now think  his policy  was mis-sold. If 
he wants to pursue that, hed need  to contact the business responsible  for the sale  
whether that be Legal and General itself or an independent broker   to raise a separate 
complaint. Before doing so, he should  bear in mind what  Ive said above about  the level of 
cover expected by the ABI and offered by most  insurers around  that time.
I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr W and isnt what he was 
hoping to hear. But in view of the available medical evidence, I think  Legal and General was 
entitled to take the view his claim didnt meet the policy  requirements  and not pay out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2953573