K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) when he took out a graduate loan  in 1997.  This borrowing (reference number ending 
1761) was re-configured and extended  twice  in September 1997  (loan  ending  1631) and 
again in July 1998 (loan ending 0291).
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD), summary  attached, in May 2019. In this I set out why I 
thought the mis-sale element of Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
But I also added that because Mr S appeared to have  been overcharged for PPI on one of 
the loans, he was probably due some money  back.
I then invited both parties  to provide  me with any further submissions  or information once 
theyd read through my PD and considered it carefully.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Barclays  replied saying it agreed about  
the mis-sale element. But it also explained a little more about the overpayments it had 
charged. It said: 
 We had previously paid [Mr S] a refund of 6 payments  which covered the payments made 
between August 1998 through to January 1999. Following a further review of the overpaid  
premiums, we will [also] arrange to refund the premiums [Mr S] paid during October  1997  to 
the start of August  1998. This refund will be in addition to the payments already made to 
[Mr S]. We will contact [Mr S] directly in this regard.
Mr S didnt reply to my PD.
So, having  once again considered all the information we have, Ive got no reason to depart 
from what I said in my PD. I dont  think  the PPI was mis-sold. And it seems Barclays  has 
now agreed to pay Mr S back the money  I referred to in my PD, plus some  further  redress.  I 
consider this offer to be fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint that he was mis-sold any PPI in relation to these loans  so 
Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt need to compensate him for this. 
Mr S was, however, overcharged for some PPI premiums in relation to Loan 1 (1761) which  
Barclays Bank UK Plc will now repay him for, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Ref: DRN24376402Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24376403summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment  protection  insurance (PPI) when 
he took out a personal loan in 1997. 
background
Our adjudicator in this case originally thought it might be a complaint we could uphold. But Barclays 
then sent in much more  information, including  revisions  of information wed been sent already. On this 
basis, when our adjudicator looked at the again, they said Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this Im intending to not uphold Mr Ss mis-sale complaint.
One of the reasons Ive issued a provisional  decision  is to be clear  exactly  what  Mr S is complaining 
about. I say this because his 1997 borrowing was re-configured and extended twice and Id like to 
clarify what actually happened.
We now know, for example,  that the original graduate loan Mr S took out (reference  number ending  
1761) was in January 1997.  But it looks like Mr S borrowed  twice more  in September 1997 (loan 
ending 1631) and again in July 1998 (loan  ending  0291).
Im not sure if Mr S just considers all this borrowing  as one loan, but as we can see, all were  separate  
borrowing events with different numbers,  terms and conditions. I think  its also fair to point out that 
these events are now some 22 years ago so its not particularly surprising that Barclays had difficulty 
in establishing what happened. It still hasnt still got Mr Ss original loan application forms but 
businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.  
loan 1  (1761)
This loan was sold with PPI attached. It covered  Mr Ss repayments  in the event of him losing  his job 
or being unable to work. He says he never knew anything about this policy, which cost £5.19  per 
month. However we know  that around 8 months later he paid this loan down  and borrowed  more 
money. The second  loan didnt have any PPI but in what appears to be an error, Barclays says it 
continued to charge him for the original  PPI after his first loan had ended. This mean  he kept paying 
the £5.19  per month  until January 1999. 
My understanding is that this apparent  overcharging is the subject  of a separate complaint Barclays is 
now looking  in to for Mr S. But without wishing to pre-judge the outcome, it seems to me Barclays can 
resolve this matter quite quickly. 
loan 2  (1631)
Mr S took this loan out in September 1997 after closing  the one above.  No PPI was attached  to this 
loan.
Ref: DRN24376404loan 3  (0291)
This loan was taken out in July 1998. Once again, the loan was covered  by a PPI policy, costing 
£10.85 per month.
was Mr S mis-sold  any PPI?
Im going to address  the two loans which had PPI, together. Mr S is adamant he didnt agree  to any 
PPI and that he was exploited. He implies  he didnt  even know about the PPI. But Im afraid  dont 
consider this to be likely.
I say this because although  we dont have any original  application  documents  left, my experience of 
these types of loan from that time period,  is that Mr S would have been given a choice. They  were  
both branch sales and I think its reasonable  for me to say that a discussion would have included 
how much  he wanted to borrow and over how long and whether he wanted any PPI. After such  a long 
time, I can understand that Mr S may genuinely  not remember such discussions, but on balance  I 
think its more  likely  he agreed to the cover on each occasion.
However, I think theres further and more  compelling  evidence to show Mr S was aware of the PPI 
cover because Barclays has told me he made a successful claim of £1394.49 for redundancy in 
relation to loan 3 (0291). Clearly this shows  an awareness of the cover and what it did.
I think  Mr S therefore bought  the PPI because it was something he thought might be of use.
Barclays concedes it may have recommended the PPI to Mr S which  means  it had a duty to make 
sure that it was suitable for his situation. 
Ive taken into account that in 1997 hed only been in his job for a short while.  Hed been in a 
temporary job for a few months before  that. From what Ive seen however, I think  Mr S was eligible for 
the PPI and would have been able to make a successful claim after a qualifying period.  I dont think 
hed have been caught  by any other exclusions we tend to see in these  types of policies and in the 
event of a successful claim it could have paid out a monthly benefit in addition  to any other means he 
already had in place.  We know this did subsequently happen.
I also think  that because Mr S had only been in his new job for a short time,  the amount of protection 
he would have enjoyed  for sickness or redundancy would have been  quite moderate. I therefore think  
the PPI was suitable  for Mr S and I dont think recommending it to him was unreasonable.
Barclays also had to give information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Over two decades  have now passed,  so I obviously cant say that Mr S was told everything he should 
have been. But as Ive said, the evidence  does show its more  likely Mr S wanted the cover and knew 
he had it. I also think hed have probably  been given something that explained how the policy worked  
so I think  Mr S would have  had enough information on which to make an informed  decision about  
what he wanted to do. 
summary
Mr S specifically complained about the first loan (1761).  However Ive taken into account  that he went 
on to reconfigure his lending and that he is probably  alleging all the PPI he had, in relation  to this 
borrowing, was mis-sold.  
However I dont think theres any supporting  evidence  for this and Mr Ss subsequent  actions show he 
knew he had this type of cover.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint  that he was mis-sold any PPI in relation to these loans.
Ref: DRN24376405Nevertheless, it seems Mr S may have been overcharged for some PPI in relation to Loan 1 (1761). 
Id like Barclays to tell me what its doing about this.
I now invite  Mr S and Barclays Bank UK PLC to send any further information or evidence they want  
me to consider by 6 June 2019 after which I intend to issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN2437640