K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) has unfairly settled a 
claim he made under his home insurance  policy. 
Mr C has been represented when bringing  this complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to 
him and his representatives collectively as Mr C throughout unless specified.
background
Mr C held his buildings  and contents  insurance  with Acromas. In January 2017 Mr C 
suffered a house  fire which tragically destroyed most of his home and contents.
Mr C says he employed a chartered  surveyor who carried out a full survey  and engaged with 
Acromas loss adjuster.  An architect and builder were found and Mr C says all parties agreed 
that a like-for-like rebuild  would be expensive, impractical, and not possibly meet current 
building regulations. So he says changes were  made that were materially different including 
simplifying the design of the roof, reducing  the number of chimneys,  as well as other 
materials for the internal decoration of the home.
Mr C says these changes  would bring the property in line with current regulations, as well as 
benefit his health by including  wheelchair access and an accessible wet room.  Mr C says 
Acromas loss adjuster  agreed with these costs  and plans and this went to tender  with the 
lowest valuation estimating a cost of around  £409,000.  He said this was evidenced in a 
quantity surveyors report from May 2018.
Mr C says the rebuild designs were  completed  in early 2018. And he had to chase Acromas 
to make payment.  He said after several delays Acromas provided an initial  payment of 
£200,000. Mr C says Acromas then hired a different surveyor who quoted  the total rebuild 
costs at £290,000 based  on the on paper  plans   which  Acromas  said was the limit of its 
liability.
Mr C said this would leave him with a shortfall of around £100,000 and unable to complete 
the required works to rebuild his home.  So he complained to Acromas. It wrote to Mr C in 
September 2018 saying itd received a schedule of works in June 2018. It said at this time it 
had concerns regarding extras  and appointed an independent surveyor  to make a 
comparison between the original building and the proposed rebuild. It said it didnt agree to 
any costs at this time, and it said Mr S hadnt given a true reflection of the required works  
leading to a delay while it investigated.
In December 2018 Acromas wrote  to Mr C again,  saying it had concerns with the way the 
claim was being handled  by its own loss adjuster. So it instructed a different company to 
provide more accurate reinstatement costs. It also said it would  only cover costs  to build the 
property in the same form,  size, style and condition as new  not to make improvements that 
werent in place prior to the fire damage.
Mr C disagreed and said Acromas previously had allowed him to appoint  his own 
professional team to obtain a planning warrant, prepare a specification  for the build and 
obtain quotes accordingly. So he said he felt Acromas  had conceded its ability to arrange for 
the work  to be completed itself. Mr C said the policy did not allow Acromas to force a cash 
settlement and that his representatives had made  it clear this was not in his best interests.
Ref: DRN20212412Mr C said hed given Acromas an opportunity to provide details of any preferred contractors 
previously when obtaining quotes which it hadnt  done. And Mr C made a number of 
comments about different  aspects of the proposed build, including that Acromas  had 
previously agreed that certain changes to the property would be covered where the 
reinstatement was for the same cost or less.
One of our investigators  then looked into things.  She asked Acromas to provide  a detailed 
breakdown of why it felt its offer was sufficient to indemnify this claim.  And she asked for 
details of anything  it considered as betterment within Mr Cs plans but it didnt reply.
The investigator said the evidence provided  (including the plans and pictures)  indicated the 
proposed new build was the same size and form as before, so was in line with the policy  
terms. She said shed looked  at a betterment  calculation provided by Mr C. She said this 
included a list of items  that were part of the original specification that would not be included   
totalling £79,078.52 that Mr C would take as credit. And it outlined  the cost of the proposed 
extras which  came  to £83,013.87.  The investigator said she wouldnt expect Acromas to 
cover any betterment so she said Mr C should  be liable for the difference  £3,935.35.
The investigator said it appeared  Acromas  based its revised offer having costed the work 
through the Building Cost Information Service (BCIS).  Taking  into account the difference  in 
opinions, the investigator said shed considered whether  Acromas  should be able to fairly 
rely solely on BCIS in the circumstances.  She explained the purpose of BCIS  was for 
insurers to estimate rebuilding costs at the inception of a policy  for buildings insurance. And 
in this case, the investigator said the BCIS estimate would result in a shortfall  of about 
£100,000  25% of the actual costs outlined in the tender documents  submitted.
So the investigator didnt think Acromas offer was fair as it wouldnt allow  Mr C to be put 
back into the position he was in prior to the loss. And she said Acromas should pay the 
outstanding shortfall  (minus any difference in betterment cost).
Acromas disagreed and said Mr C had made it clear from the start he intended to make  
substantial improvements to the property during the rebuild.  And while it had asked  for 
details of these  costs, these werent provided  until June 2018 when the works had already 
begun. Acromas said it was only obliged to pay to reinstate the property to new to the same 
form, size, style and condition of the property and not for additional works considered  
betterment. It said it had appointed  its own independent surveyor in August 2018 to review 
the position and provide his expert opinion. Having done so, it had increased its total offer in 
February 2019 to £306,397.89.
During this review, Acromas said its expert made deductions for a number of items that it 
considered betterment  to the property including solar panels, underfloor heating, stoves, and 
others. It said these costs were based on this surveyors  market  knowledge, experience  and 
rates and prices  obtained for recent  and current projects undertaken by his company.
Mr C responded to say his surveyor was appointed  without restriction or caveats and that 
hed kept Acromas informed throughout  passing  on the final documented planning consent 
in August 2017, and the final detailed specification  in April 2018.
Ref: DRN20212413Mr C said Acromas representative  had discussed  and agreed  the proposed plans, including  
how each fixture and fitting cost would be accounted for. He says this included  replacement 
on a like-for-like basis or costed and set aside as a credit  which was then planned to be 
used against new improved items.  He said it was agreed this way so all parties  had an open 
book to the plans, and the insurer would not be asked to pay for any enhancements. Mr C 
also said at the time of the tendering process  he had asked Acromas to nominate any 
contractors if it wanted  to  which it declined.
Mr C also made comments  about  specific works  Acromas had included deductions for. In 
summary saying either Acromas method of calculating the cost was not accurate as the 
tender it had completed or that there  was no evidence to support  its deductions.  Because 
Acromas has disagreed the complaint  was been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 September 2019, outlining why I intended to uphold 
this complaint. Ive included my reasoning from this decision below:
In this case the outcome of the claim has been agreed.  But the value of the rebuild  
and what is necessary to be covered under the insurance policy is in dispute.  Mr Cs 
policy says:
At our option we will arrange for the work to be carried  out or pay the cost of 
repairing or reinstating the buildings as new. If the loss or damage involves part of 
the buildings  that is in a poor state of repair or decoration we will make a deduction  
for wear and tear.
So this means  to reinstate the property,  Acromas could either arrange for the works 
to be carried out or pay the costs for repair or rebuilding.  Its not in dispute that 
Acromas agreed to use Mr Cs surveyor to undertake necessary surveying aspects 
involved in the reinstatement of the property. And from Acromas  internal notes it 
appears this was agreed in April 2017.
Acromas says it thinks Mr Cs costings  include  betterment. And it has given reasons 
which Ill discuss later. Mr C however  said while betterment was included in the 
plans, these changes  were costed separately, and conversations took place that 
highlighted some adjustments  were beneficial to Acromas. For instance,  Mr C said 
the pre-loss property  had a complex roof design, and the proposed  change  was 
financially beneficial to Acromas.  
Because theres a disagreement  about  whats happened,  Ive looked at Acromas 
internal notes from around this time. Notes from October 2017 reference a 
number of changes, a simpler design  which allowed  the property to be re-built on the 
same footprint. Then across  the next few months in 2018 it appears  Mr Cs surveyor 
was in contact  with Acromas to submit details about the tender of the re-build.
These comments and notes all seem in keeping with Mr Cs testimony about the 
works being initially discussed  and agreed  with Acromas initial loss adjuster. And 
while Acromas  has since said it had concerns at this time, Im not satisfied its 
substantiated this or provided any persuasive  material evidence  to support these 
claims. And given the steps  taken  by Mr C and his representatives  producing  very 
detailed reports and putting the build  to tender  it seems likely to me that Acromas  
wouldve stepped  in earlier than it did if it had these concerns at the time.
Ref: DRN20212414From what  Ive seen, Im persuaded its most likely that Mr Cs surveyor  had reached  
an agreement with Acromas loss adjuster. And as a result of these discussions Mr C 
proceeded to an open tender for the scope of the agreed works.
Mr C has provided a very detailed report on the necessary work and extras and 
evidenced this via the open market tender report.  He then chose the option with the 
lowest identified cost.  Taking into account Acromas  obligations under the policy, it 
needs to put the property back into a pre-loss condition. And by cash  settling, in real 
terms Id expect it to pay the actual  cost a contractor would charge to carry out the 
works (subject to policy limits) of reinstating the buildings as new.
In late 2018 Acromas changed  its loss adjuster for reasons of its own. Acromas then 
had its own report produced from an independent  surveyor in August 2018. This 
surveyor raised concerns  about the extent  of the work  being  proposed  and said it 
included betterment.
Within Acromas internal  notes it suggests around this time the independent surveyor 
had said they based their costings on the drawings  supplied by Mr Cs surveyor  
alone without  seeing any photos of the property.  Around two weeks later the notes 
suggest the surveyor then highlighted they were without a copy  of the original plans 
of the building.
From whats  been said, it appears  Acromas  used the services  of BCIS in calculating 
its revised costs. The BCIS website describes its services as providing an estimate 
and says: A surveyor who has visited your home  will be able to take into account 
many factors  that will affect the rebuilding cost and their assessment will always be 
more reliable than the general guidance available from this site.
So while I would take into account the information  from BCIS,  I cant ignore its own 
advice that a surveyor familiar with the property  will be more reliable.
For these reasons it seems to me Acromas  surveyor did not have the full access or 
experience of Mr Cs home  when  compared  to Mr Cs own surveyor. So I wouldnt 
expect his knowledge or expectation of costs  to be as accurate as an open market  
tender. To my knowledge, Acromas  hasnt offered any contractors itself to offer a 
competing quote for the required works. And I dont  think itd be fair and reasonable 
for Acromas to rely on a quote that isnt backed  by a contractor willing to complete 
the work  as this would  leave Mr C out of pocket.
Ive also considered that using a BCIS calculation (given its more generic nature) 
means these calculated costs are unlikely to account for differences  between the 
original property specification and the agreed design. For example, as Ive outlined  
above, it seems both parties agreed  to use a simpler  roof design,  alongside  many  
other changes, to save costs in places. And so for example where full reinstatement 
would mean  Acromas was required to install  the original complex and more  
expensive roof design, Id expect Mr C to get credit where the new design is less 
expensive.
Ref: DRN20212415Put simply, Mr Cs figures are based  on detailed reports and a tender backed  by 
contractors offering to do the work.  The betterment  calculation hes provided  
suggests the additional costs  over and above the like-for-like rebuild is £3,935.35  
which Id expect him to pay. And taking  this into account, the detailed tender costs 
quote for as new reinstatement and I think the lowest figure  to carry this out would 
represent a fair settlement.
So overall I find Mr Cs surveyors comments,  and reports supporting this, to be more 
persuasive as an accurate cost of the required works. And I would  expect Acromas  to 
pay the costs in full (minus any deduction for betterment as discussed above).
Acromas has raised concerns about specific aspects of the rebuild and individually  
deducted these  from Mr Cs proposed costs.  These  include deductions for solar 
panels, underfloor  heating, wood  burning  stoves, kitchen, glazing, stone quoins 
amongst others.  
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im satisfied Acromas (through  its loss adjuster) 
had already agreed these areas  with Mr C. And that as a result these changes  were 
included in the architects plans and the open tender. While I can appreciate  it is now 
employing a different loss adjuster who may feel differently,  I have to consider the 
impact of these retrospective changes  to what was agreed. And I dont think  it would 
be fair and reasonable to do so as the works have begun some  time ago, and that 
these concerns couldve been  raised and resolved at a much earlier stage.
Ive also noted  that while  Acromas  has said it should be able to make deductions in 
areas where  it considers the plans include betterment and isnt like-for-like, it doesnt 
seem to have commented on areas where the plans do result in a saving. For 
example, the simpler design  of the roof when compared to the original complex 
build.
In summary,  under  the terms  of the policy Acromas has agreed to pay the rebuild 
cost of this property. Im satisfied the most persuasive evidence comes  from Mr Cs 
that shows the reinstatement  costs on a like-for-like  basis is £409,796. And so in 
monetary terms this is the extent of Acromas liability. While Mr C may be changing  
some of the specification within his home,  this doesnt impact the extent of Acromas  
liability.
For these reasons I think Acromas hasnt  handled  or settled this claim fairly and 
reasonably or in line with its policy terms. And Im intending to ask it to settle the 
claim in line with Mr Cs previous lowest quote from the tender.  For the reasons Ive 
given I think Acromas should be able to deduct the cost of betterment  (£3,935.35) 
from this if it hasnt already been  deducted  from the total cost.
For any funds Mr C has paid directly already I intend to ask Acromas to pay 8% 
simple interest to him to account for the period of time hes been  without  these funds. 
Ive also considered the impact of this ongoing claim for Mr C. Its clear to me that Mr 
Cs day to day life will have been  affected by this ongoing dispute  as he will not have 
been able to enjoy his home as he shouldve. In addition,  I think this will have caused 
financial concerns  for him as hes been  without funds to pay his builders. So Im 
planning to award £500  to Mr C for the trouble and upset Acromas has caused him.
Ref: DRN20212416Acromas has said previously it believes  the total settlement for the buildings  work in 
this case is above  our services financial limits.  However, I disagree  as Ive been  
asked to consider  the shortfall between  what Acromas did pay and the valuation Mr 
C has given us. This is around £120,000  and therefore within our limits.
Mr C has also said he wishes for Acromas  to cover all fees and outlays agreed under 
his surveyors instruction and any additional fees accrued during the period of non-
performance. Im willing to consider  this further  if Mr C can provide  details  and 
evidence these respective costs.
Both Acromas and Mr C responded to my provisional decision. Mr C said:
he agrees in principle  to the provisional decision outcome, and he explained the 
house is now built and the project  complete, subject  to some external landscaping;
his selected  architect  was part of the professional team that fell under the umbrella 
company of his surveyor. And that Acromas  agreed  to this appointment;
his chartered  surveyor incurred additional costs  of £5,962.50 plus VAT, which he 
says was spent  assisting in surveying matters over and above the design and 
procurement of the building  including disputing with Acromas, and time spent 
bringing the complaint to our service;
personally incurred  additional costs of £2,500  plus VAT seeking legal advice related 
to the claim;
he would  like me to reconsider the impact  on his health and on-going stress, and has 
said a figure of £2,000 would be more representative than the £500 I had proposed.
Acromas responded  and said:
it has seen no evidence that its previous loss adjuster agreed that a like-for-like 
rebuild would be expensive and impractical, nor that he agreed with Mr Cs design;
its current loss adjuster has provided  a budget estimate on the basis of the property 
being built to the same  form, size, style and condition as it was prior to the fire;
it agreed for Mr C to use his own surveyor, but this didnt mean works didnt need to 
be approved by it;
it disagreed with Mr Cs betterment calculation, and instead says its current loss 
adjustors budget  estimate took into account the total cost to rebuild the property 
using the most economic estimate  to the same form, size and style of the original 
structure;
its loss adjustor didnt  base his revised  offer on costing through  the BCIS,  and this 
was based on photographs of the property and houses nearby of similar construction;
it was never asked to nominate contractors at the tender stage;
it was only made  aware  of the scope and cost of the works in June 2018 at the point 
of tender;
its original  loss adjuster was not changed due to any particular reason, and simply 
left the company so another took over;
it hadnt been provided with any evidence that the new roof design is more cost 
effective than the original  design.
Ref: DRN20212417So Acromas  asked for further  evidence from Mr C that supported his comments. Specifically 
that showed it had agreed  the design prior to the work being put to tender, that it had been 
asked to nominate contractors, and that the new roof design was more  cost effective than 
the original design. And it said without any admission of liability it felt a resolution of meeting  
in the middle  would  resolve  the matter. By this it meant it would  pay Mr C a further 
£47,763.76 (£51,699.11  less £3,935.35), plus 8% simple interest and £500 compensation.
This offer was put to Mr C which he declined. In light of Acromas points, Mr C was then 
asked to provide  further evidence to support his allegations.
I also commented that I was unlikely to direct Acromas to pay any legal fees or professional 
fees in bringing  the complaint to our service  or for handling his complaint. This is because 
our service  is free of charge to consumers and provides an informal alternative to going to 
court. Consumers should not need  special expertise or the help of a paid representative to 
bring their case to us as we judge  cases on the facts  not on the way the case  is presented.
And with this in mind,  I asked Mr C to provide a breakdown of any additional hours  spent 
that were not related to bringing the complaint  to our service. Mr C replied further to say:
the policy doesnt allow for settlement  based  on a budget estimate of costs, and that 
the estimate Acromas  had tried to rely on was nothing more than a detailed  cost 
plan. This was opposed to its own tendered costs of reconstruction.
that the ombudsman service  had mis-quoted  him, and hed actually said the house  
could be reinstated  on the same footplate to the equivalent specification but that 
current building regulations would need  to be adhered to, and Acromas  loss adjuster 
had agreed these additional costs  would be met under the policy.  Mr C reiterated that 
the plans had been agreed with Acromas  and that it regularly updated its loss 
adjustor on the position of the plans. Acromas loss adjuster  did not object due to the 
level of detail within his specification.  Mr C included emails to support these claims.
it was unreasonable for Acromas to suggest cash  settling  the claim solely to the 
value of its budgeted estimated cost, and instead a settlement  of the actual  costs  
incurred (excluding  non-essential variations or extras) would be fair.
his plans were similar  to the original structure as it sits in the same footplate and is in 
the same  position. The conservatory had been  substituted with a higher grade one, 
but the costs of both had been calculated separately. And Acromas was only being 
asked to pay for the costs of the original design  so it was unclear why it disagreed 
with Mr Cs betterment calculation.
Acromas representatives had verbally  told him that it had used BCIS rates at various 
stages during its estimates  of the cost of reinstatement. BCIS was also referenced  
within Acromas  assessment.
it was during an initial meeting Acromas loss adjuster  specifically said they didnt  
want to nominate any particular contractors during the tender process but to instead 
approach around three local contractors  which is what  he did. Nor was there 
anything Acromas has given to suggest it tried to appoint or discuss  contractors  of its 
own choosing.
Acromas was given a copy of the full tender schedule in March 2018  not June  as it 
had said  as well as providing copies of the planning application and consent,  and 
the kit supplier specification and cost.
his detailed priced specification is much more detailed than Acromas budget 
estimate and has allowed for a detailed accounting of the betterment. It has not 
provided a detail estimate of the betterment  or value of original fittings not built.
Ref: DRN20212418since Acromas  initial  loss adjuster left, it has failed  to engage with him on any pre-
agreed methodology. And if it had queried the price credit for certain  items, these 
couldve been discussed.
the original roof design was a different shape  with around 60% more surface area. As 
a gesture of goodwill  Mr C didnt instruct his experts to quantify  the saving of the roof 
to charge the additional costs to Acromas.  Mr Cs chartered surveyor  has said that 
anyone with a basic knowledge of building construction would appreciate  that the 
change in design would be cheaper  to build. But he said given  the timescales of the 
complaint being at our service detailed drawings  and costs wouldnt be possible.  So 
he said I should direct Acromas to carry out a detailed costing of the new as built 
roof, and a theoretical price of the original roof structure  with the net savings to be 
used as credit.
Acromas was given an opportunity to review Mr Cs comments  and evidence.  In summary it 
acknowledged that some  documents had been sent to it but said the building warrant 
wouldnt have included  costings, the tender documents may have been sent but there were 
no priced schedules  of works at this time. And it said largely the email chains provided didnt 
evidence that these conversations had taken place.
So Acromas  stood by its previous offer and asked for a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Below I have considered  the responses and points both parties have  raised since  my 
provisional decision. 
agreement on design and contractors
Acromas said it had seen no evidence to show that its loss adjuster had agreed  Mr Cs 
proposed design for the property. And its said it was never made aware  of the scope and 
cost of the works until June 2018  when  it saw the tender  document.
During the life of the claim I understand a number of discussions  took place in person and on 
the phone. This means there isnt a record of everything that was discussed and agreed in 
writing. So when considering what was most likely to have happened Ive had to take into 
account the evidence that is available. 
Ive reviewed the emails  and correspondence  Mr C has provided  which has been  shared 
with Acromas. These include a number of emails  between Mr Cs surveyor and Acromas 
loss adjuster. These show the parties were in touch  from August 2017 onwards to discuss  
the plans for the rebuild.  And the emails show that Mr Cs surveyor  provided copies of 
building warrant plans,  an invoice for a frame  for the property, and a tender document was 
sent in April 2018. Within the corresponding email for the tender, Mr Cs surveyor  said:
Further  to our recent discussions I attach  the tender document The tenders  will come  
back in this priced schedule and the eventual draw downs and cost to complete info will be 
on the same  document.
Ref: DRN20212419Acromas has since said it doesnt dispute  that it received these documents. But it says there 
were no priced schedules of works at this time for it to consider. Given the emails  Mr C has 
provided and the testimony put forward by his surveyor, I find it more plausible that these 
details were discussed and agreed. And Im satisfied the emails Mr C has provided  support 
this. And despite presumably  having  access to these email  chains itself, Id note that 
Acromas hasnt provided any correspondence  from this time to show  that its loss adjuster 
raised any concerns  about the works.
So even if I were to agree  that Acromas wasnt  in a position to challenge the costs until it 
received the costed tender document,  it still seems to me that its loss adjuster had agreed,  
or at very least not objected, to the plans Mr C had put forward  that subsequently went to 
tender. For this reason, as Ive outlined in my provisional decision, Im persuaded its most 
likely that Mr Cs surveyor had reached an agreement for the property with Acromas  former 
loss adjuster. And it was as a result of those discussions Mr C proceeded to an open  tender 
for the scope of the agreed works.
Acromas also said it was never given an opportunity to nominate a contractor. But as Ive 
said above, Im satisfied it was sent the tender document and had an opportunity to view the 
plans ahead of the tender. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it objected  or made any request 
to nominate its own contractors. So this doesnt change  my mind.
Acromas budget estimate
Acromas has said its budget estimate  is calculated on the basis of the property being built to 
the same  form, size, style and condition as it was prior to the fire. And it said its revised offer 
hadnt been based on costing through BCIS and instead was on photographs of the property 
and nearby homes of similar construction.
Ive considered Acromas  comments, but I would  note that the revised offer still refers  to 
BCIS regional adjustments  within it. Also,  while  Acromas surveyor may not have relied 
solely on BCIS calculations, Im not persuaded that their view of the property through 
photographs or similar homes would be more reliable than a surveyor with access and 
detailed knowledge  of the property. Nor would I expect their estimate of costs to be as 
accurate as an open market tender costing the full requirements to reinstate Mr Cs property. 
This is because the tenders are costings backed by contractors willing to carry out the work 
and so likely  to be a fair reflection of market  rates. I bear in mind  that Acromas  hadnt offered 
to use its contractors in which case the cost issue to Mr C would largely  be irrelevant. 
Acromas would, in these circumstances, contract directly with its contractor paying for work 
at an agreed rate (likely to benefit from a healthy discount) and covering uplifts  for 
unexpected work required  if it arose. 
So I havent changed my mind  that I dont think itd be fair and reasonable for Acromas to 
rely on its surveyors quote that isnt reflective  of a market rate tender and one using, at least 
in part, general  BCIS calculations. 
Mr C also said Acromas hasnt provided a detail estimate of the betterment or value of 
original fittings not built. Since my provisional  decision  was issued Mr C has explained that 
the roof design was changed  as a gesture of goodwill and not actually  costed to quantify the 
saving to Acromas. Therefore if this provided  a saving, it was not used as credit towards 
Mr Cs building costs.
Ref: DRN202124110Ive carefully considered  this, and I acknowledge that Acromas has probably  benefited  if the 
difference in roof design costs were excluded from use as credit within  its calculations.  But 
Im satisfied the fair outcome in this case is for the parties to be bound  by the previously 
agreed plans that went into the tender and betterment calculations. So Im not going  to ask 
Acromas to do anything further  in relation  to the roof design.  
Mr Cs additional costs  
As I have outlined above, given the open  nature of our service  Im not persuaded that 
Acromas should need to cover Mr Cs fees in bringing his complaint to our service. Nor do I 
think that Acromas should cover  Mr Cs costs  for seeking legal advice.  Mr Cs surveyor  has 
said that it has incurred  a number of additional hours in handling this claim.  But it hasnt 
provided a detailed breakdown to support this, so Im not going  to ask Acromas  to cover this.
compensation 
Mr C has asked me to increase his compensation payment to £2,000. Ive considered the 
points hes put forward, but theres nothing new that persuades  me to increase this sum.
So Im still directing Acromas to pay Mr C £500  for the distress  and inconvenience it has 
caused him.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint and directing Acromas  
Insurance Company Limited  to put things  right by doing what  Ive said below:
pay Mr C £103,398.22   the difference between the quote  of £409,796.11 and the 
figure of £306,397.89 I believe it has already paid. Acromas  can deduct £3,935.35 
from this sum (if this hasnt already been deducted from this total cost).
of the above  sum, add simple interest  to any amount  Mr C can evidence he has 
already paid himself  it until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year simple.
pay Mr C £500 in compensation* to take into account the trouble and upset  it has 
caused him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Acromas to take off tax from this interest.  Acromas  must
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
* Acromas must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020
Jack Baldry 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2021241