K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr A. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  Lloyds sold Mr A the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr A and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
The copy  of application form I have isnt now very easy  to read  though it looks  as 
though the form is asking whether  the customer wanted PPI, and there is a tick against 
it. But also, from what we know from all the cases weve  dealt with, its likely Lloyds did 
offer the PPI as a choice at this time, and Mr A would have had to tick to say he 
wanted it, before it was added  to his account. So I think  Lloyds made Mr A aware  that 
the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr A, which means  it had to reach  a higher 
standard during the sale  it had to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr As 
individual circumstances.  But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  Ive 
seen of Mr As circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit 
card bill for a period  longer than Mr As employer sick pay lasted. And it would have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr A more 
financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr A wouldnt need  to fall back  on 
any other resources so soon (and, from what Mr A has told us, he didnt have savings 
at the time). So, overall,  the PPI was potentially  useful. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds  gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
I dont think, in his circumstances,  full information about costs  and benefits  would have  
affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed have been affected  by 
any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr A has said.  This means Lloyds doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Lloyds has paid back  some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Ref: DRN21464022Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2146402