K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1985 to 
protect a mortgage. The policy was amended in 1987 when Mr and Mrs J took out further  
borrowing. Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester 
(C&G) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
C&G had to make Mr and Mrs J aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. Theres very little paperwork  available  from the time this 
policy was sold and amended. But this isnt unusual considering the time thats passed, and 
businesses arent  required to keep this type of information indefinitely.  Because  of the lack of 
information, I dont  have enough to say that Mr and Mrs J werent given a choice in taking 
the PPI. And I cant uphold their complaint for this reason.  
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs J have told us that they cant remember how much  sick pay they would 
have been entitled to when they took the PPI and later amended it. But the PPI would have  
paid out in addition to any sick pay they would have received.  Based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. So I think  the PPI was right 
for them.  
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But C&G has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  C&G didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, C&G has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said - including what  they have said about 
the commission offer made by C&G being  too low as they had their mortgage and policy  for 
Ref: DRN21033842a long time. But I have  looked at how C&G have calculated the offer it made  to Mr and Mrs J 
and I think it has worked  out the offer fairly.  So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2103384