K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) have  accepted  responsibility for the sale and by extension  this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during  this decision.
background
Mrs A took out a store card in 1995. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs A no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs A 
was off work  sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs As complaint should be upheld.
Mrs A didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. I appreciate Mrs A will be 
disappointed by this outcome but it is of course up to her whether she accepts or rejects my 
decision. I will go on to explain why Ive reached  this outcome.
Im satisfied Mrs A was eligible for the PPI based  on her age and circumstances at the time 
of the sale. 
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs A that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs As consent  
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs A says that she wouldnt have taken  out an 
expensive policy without  store guidance/steerage/persuasion.  She says she doesnt believe 
that PPI was highlighted as optional.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale and so Ive thought about what  Mrs A 
and FICL  have told us and looked to the information  available to help me decide  what  is 
more likely to have  happened.
FICL have  provided  us with a copy of Mrs As application form from the time of the sale.  This 
had a section  for PPI and shows that Mrs A would have been  presented  with two equally 
clear options  to take or refuse PPI. I note that the box to take PPI has been tick and Mrs A 
proceeded to sign this application form. 
Ref: DRN24292952Although Mrs A has essentially told us that she wouldnt have taken out this PPI policy 
without persuasion from the representative, Mrs A hasnt explained  what  this store guidance 
was and how she was persuaded  to take PPI. I appreciate that the sale took place a number 
of years ago and so Mrs A may not now be able to recall the details of the conversation.  
However, given what  Ive seen on the application  form, I would have needed to see some 
stronger evidence about why Mrs A believes  she was persuaded to take this policy and also 
whether this amounted to pressure.
So while I appreciate what Mrs A has told us, bearing in mind the evidence Ive seen, I cant  
say that its more likely that PPI wasnt presented  as optional  or that Mrs A didnt choose to 
take it. 
From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think FICL advised Mrs A to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for Mrs A. So for example, they didnt have 
to ask about or take into account  Mrs As existing provisions or assess  if the PPI was 
affordable for Mrs A.
But FICL did have  to give Mrs A clear  information  so that she could make a proper choice  
about whether  or not to take the policy out. I cant say that FICL gave Mrs A all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy  or the main exclusions 
and restrictions. 
So I have  to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs A off taking the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-Although Mrs A has told us she would  have received six months full pay followed by 
six months half pay from her employer if she was off work sick the policy would have  
paid out in addition to this. It wouldve covered  15% of her repayments every month 
until the outstanding balance had been paid off or she returned to work. And it 
wouldve provided the same cover  if Mrs A lost her job in addition to any redundancy 
pay she may have been entitled  to. At the very least Mrs A would have been aware 
what type of cover  the PPI provided  as this is set out in the application form. So it 
seems to me that Mrs A would have  considered  PPI to have  been  of some benefit  to 
her despite her existing means  if she was off work sick or lost her job.
-Mrs A didnt  appear to have  been  affected  by the more restrictive  terms in the policy  
which could have  made it difficult for her to make  a successful claim under the policy.  
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
-Mrs A couldve cancelled  the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
thought she could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
-I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that the PPI was unaffordable  to Mrs A 
at the time of the sale.
So based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs A was mis-sold this PPI policy.  
Ref: DRN24292953my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against  Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2429295