K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about Scottish Widows Limited. Shes unhappy  that she hasnt benefitted  
from the premiums shes paid them for her Protection for Life policy. 
Mrs W s partner  has helped her in bringing this complaint  to our service. But for ease of 
reading my decision will only refer to Mrs W.
background
Mrs W took out a Protection  for Life policy with Scottish Widows in 2008. The policy  was set 
up on an increasing basis. This meant it initially provided a £2,500 cash  sum pay-out, for a 
monthly premium of about £15, in the event of Mrs Ws death. But the level of cover and 
premiums increased yearly to keep  pace with inflation. 
Monthly premiums were missed  in late 2017 and early 2018 due to Mrs W experiencing 
financial difficulties. Scottish  Widows  told Mrs W that if the premiums werent made up the 
policy would lapse and so no benefit  would payable  if she died. They also explained that if 
this happened  then she wouldnt receive any premiums back.
Mrs W complained  to Scottish Widows but they didnt change  their position. 
The complaint was referred  to our service.  One of our investigators looked  in to it but he 
didnt think Scottish Widows  had acted unfairly.  He said the Key Features Document 
explained how the policy worked  and that Mrs W had to pay the monthly  premiums  for the 
policy benefits to remain in place. So he didnt think it was unreasonable for Scottish Widows 
to withdraw the policy cover given the premiums  hadnt been paid. He also thought it was 
made clear that there wasnt any cash in value, so he didnt think it would  be fair for the 
premiums to be returned  and he noted  that Mrs W had benefited from the cover while she 
paid the premiums.
Mrs W disagreed  and so the matter  has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs W took out the policy to cover  her funeral expenses so that her son 
wouldnt be burdened with the cost. So I appreciate her disappointment  at being told that she 
wont get anything  back from the premiums shes  paid. But having carefully considered this 
matter, I dont think Scottish Widows has acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policy  
when administering  it. Ill explain  why.
The Protection for Life policy pays out a cash sum upon the policyholders death. The 
beneficiary can then use this for, amongst  other  things, funeral expenses  as Mrs W 
intended. But the Key Features Document that Scottish Widows provided Mrs W says:
Risk factors
This benefit carries the follows the following risks

Ref: DRN27206822If you dont pay your premiums on time your cover will stop,  your benefit will 
end and youll get nothing back.

theres no cash-in value at any time.
I therefore think Mrs W ought  to have known that that she had to pay her monthly 
contributions for the cover to remain in place. And that if they stopped, she wouldnt get 
anything back from the policy. The Key Features  Document also explains that there  is a 
30 day cancellation period in which, if actioned, the policyholder will get any money theyve  
paid back. So I think if Mrs W had any concerns about the policy she couldve cancelled  it at 
that time at no cost to herself.
Mrs Ws policy continued beyond the cancellation  period. So I think  it was reasonable for 
Scottish Widows  to stop providing cover when the premiums were  missed and that, in line 
with the terms of the policy,  they werent required to return any of the premiums Mrs W had 
paid. 
I appreciate Mrs W is unhappy as she says that shes paid a lot of money for the policy  and 
that, as shes now taken out a funeral plan to replace it, she wont  receive  any cash  benefit  
from it. But while I understand her disappointment  at not receiving  a pay-out from the policy, 
she did benefit from being covered while she was paying the premiums. This is because if 
shed died during this time then Scottish Widows wouldve paid the cash  sum benefit to the 
policys trustees. 
Im also aware that Mrs W is unhappy that Scottish Widows offers such  policies as she 
doesnt think they provide value for money.  Ive noted her concerns but its not the role of our 
service to tell financial  businesses what products or services they can, or cannot,  offer.  This 
is their commercial decision  and in this case Im satisfied  that they explained to Mrs W how 
the policy would work,  including its risks,  in the product literature they provided.
I know how strongly Mrs W feels about  this matter but Im satisfied Scottish Widows has 
acted fairly  and in line with the terms of the policy when administering  it. So Im not directing 
them to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2720682