K820x#14complaint
Mr B is complaining about the amount of bank  fees and charges AIB Group  (UK) Plc trading  
as First Trust Bank (First  Trust) has charged  on his business bank account.
background
Mr B says he incurred around £8,161.50 in charges on his business  bank  account  since 
2001. Mr B feels the charges dont reflect the true cost to First Trust of his business account  
going into an unauthorised overdraft. So he thinks its unfair that First Trust has charged  this 
amount in fees and charges. 
First Trust says they charged Mr B in line with the terms and conditions of his business 
account when  he went over the agreed  overdraft limit or when his direct debts failed. First 
Trust said that given  the charges were correct  they werent willing to refund them. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He didnt think we could look at the fees and 
charges between 2001 and 2002 as they were outside the time limits  that apply in our rules. 
And our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint for the charges we could look at. He said 
due to the limited  information available he was unable to conclude with reasonable certainty 
the fees and charges were unfair. He wasnt persuaded the fees and charges were applied  
wrongly  so there was no reason to refund them. Mr B didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
Although I agreed  with our investigators  outcome,  I wanted to explain my reasons in a bit 
more detail, so I decided to issue a provisional  decision before I made  my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking before I made my final decision  which  is 
the Financial Ombudsmans Services last word  on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In his reply to the investigator,  Mr B said he was unhappy that we couldnt consider 
the charges applied between 2001 and 2002. Weve explained to him that these  fall 
outside the time limits in our rules, notably  the rule which broadly says that a 
complaint needs  to be raised within six years of the complaint event. Although  there 
are some exceptions to that timescale, none apply here. The first indication of Mr B 
raising his complaint with First Trust was in 2008. Despite us asking him, Mr B hasnt 
provided any reasons  as to why he disagrees  with that position. So I wont  be dealing 
with the charges applied more than six years  before  Mr B complained, and my 
decision will only focus on the charges applied from 2002.
Unfortunately there is only very limited information  available in relation  to the charges 
applied to Mr Bs business account over the years in question. Neither  Mr B nor 
First Trust has been  able to provide us with a copy of the terms and conditions  of 
their agreement, though it doesnt appear to be in dispute that the agreement 
provided for the bank to make  charges  in relation  to the unarranged  borrowing and 
failed direct debits.
Ref: DRN28476332The business account was closed over 14 years ago. Mr B had initially  complained  
about the charges in 2008 and had he pursued the complaint at that point its 
possible that more  evidence might have been available. Businesses  arent  required 
to keep information indefinitely, and I dont  think it would be fair if I were to hold the 
bank at a disadvantage from Mr Bs decision  not to pursue the complaint further at 
the time.  
Mr B has said the charges  were unfair and not a true reflection of the cost to 
First Trust. His agreement with the bank was a business-to-business contract, rather 
than a consumer  contract. But while a Supreme Court test case  in 2009 primarily 
related to charges applied to personal  accounts, it also explored  the questions  of 
whether charges of this type could amount to penalties  under common  law  and so 
be open to possible  challenge. This is an argument that could apply  equally  to 
business account charges, and so I have  taken it into account.
The key finding  in this respect  was that  with minor exceptions that dont apply to 
Mr Bs case   such charges were  not payable on a customers breach of contract  and 
were therefore not capable  of being  penalties at common law. They were, instead, 
the price for a service being provided  by the bank. I see no reason  to depart from the 
courts conclusions in this respect. It follows that the charges applied  by First Trust 
didnt necessarily have  to reflect its costs in providing the service.
Its possible the circumstances  at the time might mean charges were applied  unfairly, 
rather than being  unfair per se. Mr B went over his agreed overdraft limit and some of 
his direct debits failed. It seems likely Mr B would have  needed  this borrowing for a 
short period  of time to help him get by but First Trust was taking a risk in lending to 
him in this way to allow him to continue  with his business. First Trust needed to 
balance this with refusing  Mr B further borrowing, as it could have had a serious 
consequence on Mr Bs business if they refused. So First Trust, for a fee, allowed 
Mr B to go into an unauthorised overdraft.  I dont believe it would be right for me to 
conclude that the bank  acted unfairly  in those circumstances.
Mr B has told us that he was in financial difficulties due to a relationship  breakdown 
at the time. First Trust had a duty to treat customers in financial difficulty positively 
and sympathetically. But that doesnt  automatically mean it needed  to waive  charges 
or interest  on their borrowing.
While Mr B was running a high overdraft  balance on his business account,  I can see 
there was a regular  flow of money coming  into his account. He did occasionally 
exceed his overdraft limit for short periods of time, but he was addressing this and he 
was in the process of reducing his overall overdraft in line with discussions he had 
with First Trust. So, while I dont doubt, he may have been finding things difficult, I 
havent seen enough to say that the way the bank dealt with matters  failed to 
recognise this. 
On that basis, I was minded not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
First Trust responded to my provisional decision and said they agreed with the conclusions. 
Ref: DRN28476333Mr B didnt respond to the provisional  decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2847633