K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains British  Gas Insurance Limited  caused his boiler to fail. He says this meant  
he had to replace  it, and hed like it to reimburse him for this.
Background
In September  2018, British Gas carried out an annual service on Mr Rs boiler as part of the 
boiler insurance he had with it, as well as a gas safety check. In December 2018, its 
engineer attended a call out due to a problem with it. British Gas says when it arrived  the 
boiler had been switched  off by Mr Rs tenants  due to a leak, and wasnt  operational. It says 
it thought the printed circuit board (PCB) had blown, but it had to replace  the leaking low 
pressure switch before it could try testing the boiler  and as this still wasnt  working  it knew 
the PCB had blown. It says it couldnt  source a PCB, as this part was obsolete due to the 
age of the boiler. 
Mr R says before calling British Gas his own engineer looked at his boiler and said the 
problem was the pressure switch. And that, while there was low water  pressure, the boiler 
was operational.  Mr R says the boiler must have been working for British Gas to know it 
needed a new switch, and that British Gas caused  the PCB to blow 
Mr R doesnt believe British Gas tried to source a new PCB - he says it didnt even know  the 
part number when  he asked  for it. He told British  Gas hed located  one that came  with a 
guarantee. British  Gas offered to fit this free of charge,  but said it couldnt guarantee the 
work due to the part coming from an unauthorised supplier. British  Gas said there was no 
guarantee it would  resolve the problem  and it wouldnt be responsible  for issues  with it. Mr R 
chose to replace  the old boiler  with a new one instead. He then raised a complaint with 
British Gas saying  it should pay for the new boiler.  British Gas didnt agree so Mr R referred 
his complaint to us.
Mr R told us the engineer  that fitted  his new boiler said his old boiler was in good condition, 
that they could  have  obtained a PCB and it can only blow if theres a spill on it or the switch 
was wired incorrectly. Mr R also feels the service carried out in September wasnt done 
correctly, as the leak wasnt identified. And his tenants told him the engineer  wasnt  there 
long, didnt remove the boiler case or leave a checklist. Mr R says his tenants were without 
heating and hot water, and having a new boiler  fitted around Christmas was inconvenient. 
British Gas says while  it offered  Mr R £100  compensation as a gesture of goodwill, his boiler 
was beyond the average life expectancy  of any boiler. And that its been advising him to 
replace it for some years.
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint.  They said no problems were found when the 
boiler was serviced  in September  2018. And the boilers age meant it could fail at any time. 
She didnt  think British Gas had done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree and still thinks British Gas made  a mistake which caused his boiler to fail, 
and he wants British  Gas to pay for his replacement boiler. So his complaints been passed  
to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN28265662My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not asking British 
Gas to do anything  further, for largely  the same reasons  as the investigator.
While the pressure switch  was found to have failed a few months  after the service in 
September, this doesnt mean  it had already  failed at that time of the service. Parts  can fail 
unexpectedly at any time, especially in old boilers like Mr Rs. If it had failed  prior to the 
service in September, then I think the engineer would have picked this up, given it was easily  
discoverable in December and had caused the boiler to stop working. And it was clearly  
working following  the service or Mr R wouldve reported this. Not being left a checklist  and 
the speed of the service doesnt  mean  it wasnt done correctly.  And if the service hadnt  
been carried out Id have  expected Mr R to raise  this with British  Gas at the time given that 
was the purpose  of its visit.
A PCB can blow for various reasons including small leaks or age, not just a spillage or 
incorrect wiring in the way Mr R said his engineer suggested. In these circumstances, I think 
its likely  a leak from the pressure switch caused  the PCB to blow and meant the boiler  
wasnt operational when British Gas arrived. I say this because  the engineer  that attended 
the call out is an expert,  so I think its fair to place weight on his testimony. And he thought  it 
was most likely a leak caused the PCB to blow. A leak would  also explain the low pressure 
Mr Rs tenants told him about and I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest  the PCB 
failed for any other reason. And its reasonable to think the engineer  was able to diagnose a 
new switch was needed without the boiler  being  operational,  based on the leak and 
information given  to them by Mr Rs tenants.  
In relation to the PCB, Mr Rs renewal documents are clear  that, as his boiler is no longer 
made, some parts are difficult to source.  I think British Gas took reasonable steps to try to 
obtain a PCB, but it was obsolete. And it told Mr R this in good  time. While Mr R says he 
found a PCB and the engineer who fitted  his new boiler said these  are available, British  Gas 
hasnt disputed that it might be through some  sources. Instead,  its said it gets parts  from 
approved suppliers and sources where it can guarantee  safety. And I dont think this is 
unusual or unreasonable.
Mr R chose the costlier replacement option  despite  maintaining his boiler  could be repaired 
and saying his own engineer told him this too. And while  Mr R might not have needed a new 
boiler immediately  if the PCB hadnt blown, its reasonable to think  hed have had to replace 
it in the near future anyway given its age - I think its likely Mr R took this into account when 
deciding this. 
In summary,  I dont think British Gas caused any of the problems  with Mr Rs boiler. 
Therefore its not appropriate for me to uphold  his complaint. 
Ref: DRN28265663My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2826566