K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank Plc are holding him liable for cashpoint  (ATM) withdrawals 
that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In October  2018  Mr K requested a new debit card and PIN from Lloyds. 
He says this was because the contactless part of his existing card had stopped working. In 
the days following  this request  Mr K had several  phone calls with Lloyds to make use of 
their telephone banking service.  During some of these  calls he queried how long the card 
and PIN would take to arrive. Lloyds explained that it would usually take three to five working 
days.
In the last of these calls Mr K found his account  balance was significantly lower  than he 
expected. Mr K says he hadnt received his card or PIN and that he didnt authorise the 
recent cash withdrawals. There were ten cash withdrawals he disputes which  totalled  
£2,500. 
Lloyds investigated  but declined to refund  the disputed transactions.  They  say there  isnt 
evidence to suggest that the transactions were fraudulent. Mr K wasnt happy with this and 
complained. He was also frustrated as he says hed previously been told that his new card 
couldnt be delivered to a branch  which would have  been his preference. 
Lloyds maintained their position and so the matter was referred to our service.  One of our 
investigators didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded  that it was more likely than not that 
Mr K authorised the transactions.  So he didnt recommend that Lloyds need  to do more.  As 
he still disagrees, Mr K has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr K, so 
let me explain why.
Generally, Lloyds can only hold Mr K liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely than not that he made  or authorised them himself. 
I appreciate that Mr K says he didnt receive  his new card and PIN. And Ill come to that 
issue below. I am however, satisfied by the banks technical evidence that the genuine  card 
and PIN were used  to make the disputed withdrawals. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold Mr K liable. So I also need 
to think about  whether  the evidence suggests  its more likely than not that Mr K consented to 
the transactions being made. In cases like this, I have to reach  my decision based  on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened, having considered all the evidence.  
Mr K told our service that his post is delivered through  a porch door at his house. And that 
this door is kept locked  until the post has been  collected each morning. Because of this, I 
dont think its likely  that the card and PIN (which were each sent on separate  days),  would 
Ref: DRN21796862both have been intercepted by an unknown third party. Lloyds evidence shows  that the PIN 
was sent on 16 October  2018 and the card itself on 18 October 2018. 
Mr K lives with several of his family members, but he says he doesnt  think any of them 
would have intercepted his post or stolen his card and PIN. I appreciate Mr K thinks  this is 
unlikely, and I of course  understand why. But I have to consider this option  as the other  
occupants of Mr Ks house are the only other  people who might  have had ready access  to 
his post. 
Mr K also thinks  that his card and PIN could  have been intercepted before being delivered  
by the postal staff.  There isnt evidence to support that this has happened. And as all the 
cash withdrawals all took place in the vicinity of Mr Ks home,  I dont think  its likely that the 
card and PIN were  stolen in transit. Particularly  as this would have needed to have 
happened on more  than one occasion to obtain both the card and PIN. 
Overall, I agree  with our investigator  that its more likely than not that Mr K authorised  the 
withdrawals. Ive reviewed the reasons he gave and I agree with what he said.  I wont  repeat 
all his reasoning  here,  but Ill clarify  what I find to be the most  persuasive evidence. 
Whilst there were withdrawals made daily, the pattern of the transactions doesnt  represent 
what is typically seen in fraudulent use.
The first two withdrawals were for £400  and £100.  These took place only a few minutes 
apart and at around 2230 hours on 19 October. This was the day after the card had been  
posted. Postal deliveries  dont generally take place late into the evening,  so whoever made 
the withdrawals waited a number  of hours  before doing so. Typically a fraudster will want  to 
withdraw as much as possible, as soon as possible, to maximise the benefit to them.  At any 
time a stolen  card could  be blocked.
Further to this, Lloyds  evidence shows that the account balance wasnt checked prior to the 
initial withdrawals. And I cant see how either  a known  or unknown third party  would have 
known there  were sufficient available  funds to meet the requests.  
Also the third and fourth withdrawals both took place around  2350 hours on 20 October  
2018. Again  this isnt indicative of there being  any urgency to make  the withdrawals, which 
Id typically expect to see. These withdrawals were around 25 hours  after the first two and 
long after the daily withdrawal limit would have  been  reset. 
Mr K says he was told in branch that it wasnt  possible to have had his card delivered to the 
branch rather than his home address. Lloyds say this is unusual  as that is a service they 
offer. I think its unlikely a member of staff would have said Lloyds cant provide a service 
that they do commonly offer. And I dont think this point makes  a difference  to whether or not 
Mr K authorised the withdrawals. 
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint  into consideration, I think  its more  likely than 
not that Mr K either made or authorised the withdrawals himself. It follows that I think it is fair 
for Lloyds  to hold him liable for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN21796863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2179686