K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs M say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided HSBC should  have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ref: DRN22800552I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because while HSBC no longer has all of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale, it has provided  a Personal Financial Planning  Review  
document, which records what was discussed  between Mr and Mrs M and the HSBC 
adviser at a meeting they had to discuss their mortgage protection  needs. Looking  at this 
I can see that HSBC advised  Mr and Mrs M consider  protecting their mortgage payments  
in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment and that they decided  to accept the 
recommendation made.  Ive not seen  anything here which  says or implies that they had 
to take out PPI or that it was an integral part of the mortgage offering.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs M likely chose to take out PPI and 
they did so without undue pressure.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M - so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example Mr M as the 
sole policyholder  was eligible for the cover, he was the main wage earner and although  
they had some existing means,  they still seem  to have had a need for cover.  
Part of those existing means was an income replacement policy in Mr Ms name,  which 
provided him with around £380  a month  if he was unable  to work through  accident or 
sickness. But this was documented at the time and I can see the adviser  considered it 
when giving their advice. On the basis that the benefit from this policy  fell short  of Mr Ms 
usual monthly income, the adviser went ahead  and recommended the PPI to protect  Mr 
and Mrs Ms mortgage payments. And in the circumstances I dont think  it was wrong for 
HSBC to have  done  so.
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim (although Mr M was self-employed and with some  policies this 
might have made it more  difficult for him to claim on the policy, this wasnt the case  
here.) Although Mr M says he had a medical  condition some time before the policy was 
taken out, Im not persuaded that, given the nature of the condition, the policy  was 
unsuitable for him  hes not said he ever had to take time of work because of the 
condition and Im not persuaded that this would have been likely in the future. There 
were also no additional  restrictions  on cover for mental health  or back  problems. So, 
overall I dont think it was wrong for HSBC  to have recommended PPI. 
I accept that its possible the information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs M 
as I concluded  above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought  they were buying  
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  declined the cover  had HSBC done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could  
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Ref: DRN22800553Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has raised a number  of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value  
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has not said how these  points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC  should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the unfairness caused  
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mr and Mrs M about the high levels of commission  and profit  share paid in 
this case. So taking into account:  
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mr and Mrs M was unfair  under section  140A of the Consumer Credit  Act 
because HSBC didnt  tell them about the high levels of commission  and profit  share in 
this case 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN22800554I dont think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and Mrs M because  it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs M should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  HSBC failed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs M in order to remedy  the unfairness  caused by HSBC  not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
Ref: DRN22800555-I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude  that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr and Mrs M paid for their PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr and 
Mrs M with the policy Ive concluded above  they would still have taken out if HSBC had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount  equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that HSBC  
UK Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable)  if it 
hasnt already done so. I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2280055