K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited trading as Payday Express  was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr T took out six loans  with Payday Express  between August 2014 and January 2015.  Ive 
included a summary of the loans below:
No. Date of 
LoanAmount borrowed
Repayment amount
Date repaid
1 04/08/2014 £200 1 @ £258 18/08/2014
2 23/08/2014 £200 1 @ £258 18/09/2014
3 26/09/2014 £250 3 @ £120 18/12/2014
4 27/12/2014 £570 1 @ £661 16/01/2015
5 17/01/2015 £570 1 @ £716 22/01/2015
6 28/01/2015 £350 4 @ £132 18/05/2015
Mr T says he was caught in a trap of borrowing multiple loans from different payday  lenders. 
Mr T says that Payday Express was one of three  lenders he borrowed from operating under 
the same  umbrella.
Mr T says that the unaffordable lending led to significant financial difficulties. Mr T wants  
Payday Express to refund the interest  that hes paid over all of the loans.
Mr T says that Payday Express told him that it had refunded some money to him in the past 
but he says this wasnt the case.
Payday Express says that it reviewed Mr Ts loans line with a redress scheme  that it had 
agreed with the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  for loans granted between April 
2014 and April 2015. As a result of the review, Payday Express  says that it refunded  some 
of the interest  that Mr T had paid on loans four and five. 
Mr T says that the bank  account that Payday Express  says it paid the refund in to was frozen 
as a result  of him entering in to a debt management  plan.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint  be upheld. Although she didnt think  
that Payday  Expresss checks were  proportionate  before  agreeing loan two and loans four to 
six, Mr T didnt give us any copy bank statements to see what  better  checks wouldve 
revealed.
The adjudicator also explained that it appeared as though Payday Express  had spoken to  
Mr T about the refund back in 2016.  The adjudicator  recommended  that Mr T make a subject 
access request to his bank to find out whether the money reached  his account. 
Mr T doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr T says he was borrowing 
from Payday Expresss sister  company at the same time.  He thinks  that Payday Express  
wouldve seen that he was in a debt spiral.
Ref: DRN23763342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In cases like this, where the evidence is 
inconclusive, I reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all 
the available  evidence and decide what  I think  is most likely to have happened.
Payday Express was required to carry out checks before agreeing  to lend to make sure     
Mr T was able to repay each loan. These checks  had to be proportionate to things such as 
the amount of the loan,  the repayments and any lending  history. But there  wasnt a set list of 
checks Payday Express had to carry out.
Even if I decide that the checks werent  adequate;  this wont  necessarily be enough for me to 
uphold the complaint. I will also need to conclude that proportionate checks  wouldve shown 
Payday Express that Mr T might struggle to repay all or some of the loans in a sustainable  
way.
loan one 
Mr T declared his net monthly income to be £1,770. It was early on in Mr Ts borrowing 
history with Payday  Express  and the loan repayment represented a fairly modest proportion  
of his monthly income. I think  that it was reasonable of Payday Express  to agree to lend 
based on knowing Mr Ts income alone.
loan two
I agree  with the adjudicator that before agreeing loan two, it wouldve  been  reasonable to 
expect Payday Express to ask Mr T about his income and living  costs,  including any regular 
financial commitments.
I dont have any evidence  to suggest  that Payday Express  asked Mr T for all of this 
information. Instead it relied on his declared  monthly income of £1,770.
Mr T went on to give Payday Express his expenditure figure for loan three about a month 
later. As Mr T hasnt given us copy bank  statements  from around the time of the loans, I 
cant say whether he wouldve given Payday Express a different figure had it asked him. 
Based on the expenditure figure that Mr T declared  a month  later, even if Payday Express  
had carried out the kinds of checks I think were  proportionate, loan two wouldve still 
appeared affordable.
loan three
Payday Express has given us evidence that it asked Mr T for details of his income  and 
expenditure before agreeing loan three. Given  the relatively modest monthly instalments that 
Mr T was due to make, I consider the checks went far enough.
Mr T declared monthly  expenses  of £1,095  against an income  of £1,750.  I think  it was 
reasonable of Payday Express to decide  that Mr T could  afford  his monthly  repayments.
Ref: DRN23763343loans four to six
By the time Mr T borrowed for a fourth  time, Payday Express could  see a history  of 
borrowing on a fairly regular basis. Payday Express also expected  Mr T to repay a significant 
proportion of his declared monthly income of £1,800.
I think that for loans  four to six, Payday  Express shouldve been doing  more than it did to 
make sure that Mr T could  afford  to repay each loan.  Although Payday Express has given us 
evidence that it asked Mr T about  his income and outgoings, I consider  that it was 
reasonable to expect  Payday Express to check the accuracy of Mr Ts financial information.
Payday Express couldve  done this in a variety of ways such  as asking to see payslips, bills 
or bank  statements.  Although Mr T has given us copies of his credit report, I cant see much 
in the way of other short term loans or revolving credit around  the time of loans four to six.  
I appreciate that Mr T has concerns  about  asking for old bank statements but without seeing 
these, I cant be sure what  Payday  Express wouldve  seen had it carried out the kinds  of 
checks that I think were proportionate. This means that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
loans four to six.
Mr T thinks that his borrowing from the other lenders shouldve been known by Payday 
Express and taken  into account when it was deciding on the kinds  of checks that it needed 
to carry out.
Although Mr T borrowed from at least one other lender that formed  part of same group of 
companies as Payday  Express, they were separate regulated businesses. In 2015  the other 
lender became the responsibility of the same regulated entity as Payday Express. But during 
the time that Mr T was borrowing from Payday Express the other lender was operated 
through a different lending  system. This meant  that Payday Express  didnt have  access to 
the information held by the other lender.  So the fact that the lenders were part of the same 
group of companies doesnt change my decision.
On the question of the refund that Payday Express says it made. I understand that Mr T 
doesnt think this happened but I can only go on the evidence that Payday Express has 
given to us. There  are some notes  from May 2016 which indicate that Mr T had received a 
letter about  the refund and wanted to update  his bank details. The notes say that Payday  
Express told Mr T that it was going to refund  just over £106. 
As Mr T hasnt given me copy bank statements from around this time to show that he didnt 
receive the payment, I cant reasonably find that Payday Express didnt action the refund as 
agreed back in 2016.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN23763344Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2376334