K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a policy provided by Standard Life Assurance Limited sold in 1979.  He 
says the policys  maturity value is low when compared to other  similar policies. He wants to 
know why it has performed so badly and wants some redress.  He also wants better and 
more detailed explanations for the costs  and charges applied.
background
Mr S invested a net £5 a month  in the policy. From  that, costs, including the costs  of life 
cover would have  been  taken. £2,597 was paid into the policy over 40 years.  It matured for 
£10,284.
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary it agreed  that the maturity  value  of the 
policy was lower than hoped for. That was due to a number of factors,  many outside  its 
control such as market returns.  The costs and charges were provided for as part of the 
contract between itself and Mr S. There was nothing wrong, it said,  with the charges or the 
way they had been applied.
Mr S was unhappy with that and came to us. He couldnt understand why other policies he 
had with other businesses performed so much  better than this one. The business hadnt, he 
thought, properly explained  the costs and charges applied to the policy.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. In effect, she agreed with the business.  She 
agreed that the maturity value of the policy was disappointing. Although other policies  may 
seem very similar there are of course  (as Mr S accepts) no two identical policies. Different  
investment strategies and the level and structure of costs will produce  very different results 
in seemingly very similar policies. That does not, of itself, however, mean that the business  
has got something wrong.
Mr S remained unhappy.  He said it wasnt good  enough that the information he wanted  
couldnt be produced. It was also not good  enough that the performance  here was some 
50% worse than another similar policy he has or had with another provider. He also thinks 
transparency is something  we should  be involved in. He has also asked for an investigation 
into the business conduct generally. 
Finally he makes a new complaint about  a reduction in the maturity value of his policy. He 
says he would have  surrendered it sooner had he known it was going to reduce between him 
contacting the business  and the policy maturing.
As he was still unhappy Mr S asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes some  very recent emails 
from Mr S.
Having done that I dont  uphold this complaint. I know this isnt what Mr S wants. I can 
perfectly well understand his strength  of feeling about this and why the complaint has been 
brought.
Ref: DRN27351202But to uphold a complaint  I must be able to say why I think it fair to. Also I must be able to 
tell a business exactly what to do about it. Policies like this were  usually set up with the 
intention of at least reaching a given target  value  (and hopefully  more). Also some  were set 
up as investment or savings plans to achieve  as good a return as possible.  
They were  sold on that basis and did what they were intended to do for many years. Across 
the industry however such policies have often  fallen short more  recently.  There  is nothing 
obviously wrong or different with the performance  of this policy. Of course,  as Mr S knows, 
some business  policies  and funds will do better than others.
It doesnt help that the policy started some  40 years ago. Businesses were only required to 
keep records for six years. It would be surprising if complete records  could be produced. In 
fact today businesses  are under great  pressure  not to keep records for longer than required.
It has been said, many times  (and publically), that with profit funds are particularly 
complicated and difficult  to understand. That has been commented  on by government, 
regulators, consumer  groups  and parliament.  It is difficult if not impossible  for policyholders  
to understand  what is happening and why. That is most certainly not limited to this business.
However I have to test a complaint against  what the law and regulations required at the 
time of the actions  (or inactions) complained about. I cant  try and apply todays standards  of 
transparency and information to things which happened many decades ago. 
Transparency might indeed be a hot topic  now as Mr S rightly  puts it but it certainly wasnt 
in 1979. It can be difficult if not impossible for individual costs  to be isolated from charges 
generally applied  to funds. That is nothing unusual in my experience of the industry as a 
whole. In any event  expecting a business  to be able to do so from 40 years  ago is, in my 
view, unrealistic.
I am not for one second suggesting that is entirely  satisfactory but it is a matter  of fact. As Mr 
S knows we do not set the regulations for what businesses can and cannot do and what  they 
must disclose. That is the job of the regulator. We were  set up to deal with complaints on a 
case by case basis awarding redress where  appropriate and we can fairly do so.
I agree  that in an ideal  world Mr S would be able to know exactly  how much the charges are 
and how they were applied. However  I have to ask what  practical  difference  it would make.  
The fact that the life cover or other charges were a certain amount  in 1979 is of little help in 
deciding whether Mr S has lost as a result of what the business did or didnt do. 
As regards  Mr S latest  issue, about  a reduced maturity value, if he wishes to complain  about  
that he will have to put it to the business  first. I dont know but I suspect that the reduction 
will simply be a result of market forces  or changes in bonus rates. Such changes are 
commonly very market sensitive and very confidential even within  the business. I also note 
Mr S wants  a deep dive investigation into the business affairs and ways of working. That 
however is not something we can do. Only the regulator can.
Ref: DRN27351203my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2735120