K820x#14complaint
Ms T says St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold her a lifestages repayment cover  (LSRC) 
policy.
background 
Ms T bought the policy in April 2010  during a telephone call having taken out a loan. 
The LSRC  cost £8.23 a month and would have provided a benefit of £82.32. The policy  
didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party  with 30 days notice without 
penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms T for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to provide a monthly benefit for up to 12 months in the 
event of a successful disability or unemployment  claim.
At the time,  Ms T was employed  as a night shift worker. She has told us she was entitled to 
at least six months full sick pay from her employer.  She has also said that she would have 
received redundancy pay and had death  in service benefit. Ms T has said she didnt have 
any health problems  at the time of the sale. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case in January 2021  explaining  why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision. I asked  both parties  to provide me with any further comments  and/or evidence  
they would  like me to consider before I issued a final decision.  Ms Ts representative 
confirmed they had nothing further  to add. And St Andrews hasnt provided me anything 
further to consider either.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with anything  further  to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont uphold  
this complaint for the same reasons  as those set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint against  St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN25179552
Ref: DRN25179553                                      copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms T says St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold her a lifestages repayment  cover (LSRC)  policy.
background and summary  to complaint
Ms T bought the policy  in April 2010  during a telephone call having taken  out a loan. 
The LSRC cost £8.23  a month and would have provided  a benefit  of £82.32. The policy didnt attract  
interest and could be cancelled by either party  with 30 days notice without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Ms T for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to provide a monthly benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful disability or unemployment claim.
At the time, Ms T was employed as a night shift worker. She has told us she was entitled to at least 
six months full sick pay from her employer. She has also said that she would have received 
redundancy pay and had death in service benefit.  Ms T has said she didnt have any health problems 
at the time of the sale. 
Ms Ts representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. These are 
complaint points it typically raises for all Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) cases it represents  but 
this is not a PPI policy. This is because, although it looks similar to PPI there are some key 
differences which mean it is not classed as PPI  for example the amount of cover didnt have  to be 
directly related to the loan repayment; it could be set up to run beyond  the loan term;  and importantly 
any benefit claimed  was paid direct  to the policyholder and not to the lender. So Ive only gone on to 
consider points which I consider to be relevant to the type of policy being  complained of.  
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their responses to 
the adjudicators  opinion. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.  
For the sake of clarity  because this policy  is not classed  as PPI (notwithstanding  the fact that credit  
agreement itself was with a third party and not St Andrews) the unfair  relationship provisions set out in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of that Act 
and the rules  and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable here.
my provisional  findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what  is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done that Im currently not intending to uphold this complaint, I will now go on to explain  why.
First of all Ive considered  whether Ms T was eligible for the LSRC  policy. Based on her age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale Im satisfied that she was eligible. 
St Andrews  should have  made it clear that the LSRC policy was optional.  
St Andrews  no longer  have a copy of the call recording from the time of the sale.  However, it has 
referred us to the transcript that would have been used at the time of the sale.  This transcript  shows 
that the policy  would have been presented  as optional during  the sale. And I havent seen sufficient 
Ref: DRN25179554reason to conclude that the representative deviated from the transcript in this particular  case  or that 
they pressured Ms T into taking out LSRC.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms T knew the policy was optional  and she 
agreed to take it out without  undue  pressure.  
Both St Andrews and Ms T agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  St Andrews had to advise Ms T with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
While I dont  know  what  was discussed in the meeting, the documentary evidence  suggests  that St 
Andrews took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation for Ms T. 
Although a demands and needs statement  was completed to try and establish  whether  Ms T had a 
need for the policy, I dont think it did enough to ensure the LSRC was suitable for Ms T. 
While Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should have  done to make sure the policy was suitable  
for Ms T, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable for her. In reaching 
that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms T had a need for the policy   while the policy wasnt  directly  related to the loan she 
separately took out, it seems likely that Ms Ts ability  to continue to meet her loan repayments 
would have  been  put under  strain if she was not working for an extended period of time  
even allowing  for the redundancy benefits and sick pay she says she would  have been 
entitled to. The loan repayment added  to Ms Ts regular monthly  expenditure, so I think  she 
wouldve found the LSRC useful had the insured risks become a reality.
-Although Ms T says that she was financially  stretched at the time of the sale,  I havent seen 
any other evidence to be able to conclude that the monthly  cost of the policy  was unaffordable  
for Ms T.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt  make the policy  unsuitable for Ms T. There was nothing  
about Ms Ts employment  or occupation  which  would  have made  it difficult  for her to claim. 
And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions that could affect her ability to 
claim. 
Ive also considered whether, when  providing  advice, St Andrews gave Ms T sufficient  information 
about the cover provided by the policy  to enable  her to understand what St Andrews  was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision  about whether  to follow  that advice  and take out 
the policy.
Based on the transcript,  Im satisfied its more  likely than not that Ms T was given a broad  description 
of what  the policy was (that is that the policy would pay Ms T a regular monthly  amount if she was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment) and it appears to me that Ms T would  
have been informed what the cost and amount of benefit of the policy would  have been. 
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether St Andrews gave Ms T sufficient  
information about the exclusions or limitations  before  Ms T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered  the parties representations about what happened, while  Im satisfied the 
policy was a suitable recommendation  for Ms T Im not persuaded St Andrews did enough  to present 
information about the policy it was recommending  in a way that was fair and reasonable to Ms T. Im 
not persuaded  St Andrews gave Ms T all of the information  she needed  about the policy to make an 
informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN25179555Ive found that St Andrews  didnt do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy  to Ms T. So I have 
gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms T suffered loss and 
damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms T would  have still taken out the 
policy, had St Andrews done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded St Andrews took the steps it should have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Ms T, I have found that the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms T has suffered loss or damage in this 
case primarily depends  on whether, if St Andrews  had explained things properly, Ms T would have 
acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Deciding whether to follow  advice to take out insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a number 
of factors before  deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to weigh  up the advice  to 
take out the policy,  the cost of doing so given the benefits offered  in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance,  should  the risks come to fruition.
The evidence  in this case  suggests that Ms T had some  interest in taking out LSRC. By this I mean 
when St Andrews  advised her that there was a suitable  product she could  buy that would pay her a 
monthly amount in the event she was unable to work because of accident, sickness and 
unemployment, she concluded  she wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on 
incomplete information,  meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Ms Ts circumstances at the time of the 
sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable for her.
Possibly the most significant  differences between  what  Ms T thought  she had bought and what  she 
actually bought were  the following:
The policy  excluded  claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that Ms T knew 
about or ought to have  known about before the start date of the policy; or for which  she had 
seen or arranged to see a doctor  during the 12 months before the start date;
The policy  contained limitations  on claims  relating to back and mental health  conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those grounds;
The policy  limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Ms T wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms T be unable to do her 
own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused Ms T 
pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as good as she 
thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled  with 
the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded  some consumers  in slightly different 
circumstances from Ms T from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence about  Ms Ts circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve  proved  valuable to her should the insured risks have 
become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of 
the significant exclusions  Ms T didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  and was in 
permanent employment. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN25179556I accept back pain and mental health conditions  are common  problems and the steps required  to 
make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous  than Ms T might reasonably have 
expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a disability  claim without 
having to provide some  evidence to support that claim.  And while this limitation might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms T from taking out the policy, Ms T, in her 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Ms T had she could only claim  for disability  if she was not only unable  to do her job or any similar 
job but also unable  to do any job which  in the insurers  view she might reasonably be qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking about what she would do. And I accept  it may have given  her 
pause for thought  although given Ms Ts circumstances, on balance,  I still think  she would have 
been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered  all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more  likely than not Ms 
T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was sufficiently close to what  
its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her manage the 
consequences were  Ms T made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider  it more likely than not Ms T would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
It follows that I dont think St Andrews mis-sold Ms T this LSRC policy. 
my provisional  decision
Overall, having considered  all the evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above,  I dont 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2517955