K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2004. Mrs L says AXA France  mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in November 2019 I explained  why I didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
Im currently  intending  on not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
AXA France  had to make  Mrs L aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs L applied for the PPI
but AXA France has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. The application  form Mrs L
completed when  she applied for her card had a separate section  for PPI which Mrs L signed
to accept the policy in addition to signing for the card itself. So, I think Mrs L would have
been aware the policy was optional, and she chose to have it.
AXA France  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it was
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
to make her repayments. Which she said included generous sick pay. But considering what  
we know about  Mrs Ls job at the time and how long she had worked  in the role I think its 
unlikely her sick pay entitlement would have been  so generous.  We have asked for further 
details of Mrs Ls sick pay but nothing further  has been provided.  For this reason I am unable  
to say Mrs L would have been entitled to the level of sick pay she has told us she was.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
I gave Mrs L and AXA France time to respond  to my provisional decision, but no further  
information was provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither side responded with
anything further  for me to consider I see no reason to come  to a different  decision to that
explained above.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Ref: DRN29871922Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2987192