K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained that Santander  Consumer  (UK) Plc (Santander) are pursuing her 
for a debt linked to a conditional sale agreement which  she says she was forced to take out 
by her ex-husband. 
background
Miss M entered into a conditional sale agreement  for a car with Santander in August 2017. 
The agreement was for £40,636.55 and was due to be repaid over five years in monthly  
instalments of £654.88. Within a short period of time Miss M fell into arrears on her 
repayments and a new payment plan was put in place. However Miss M was also unable to 
meet the revised monthly repayments and Santander decided to cancel the agreement and 
repossess the car. This resulted in Miss Ms credit  file being negatively  impacted.
When Miss M applied for the finance  for the car she was accompanied by a man (Mr X) 
who told Santander he was her relative.  When Miss M was unable  to meet her monthly 
repayments Mr X was added to her account as a third party  representative and began 
communicating with Santander and attempted to arrange alternative repayment plans. He 
also made promises to cover the repayments  himself. When Santander ultimately decided to 
cancel the agreement and repossess the car, it was Mr X who brought a complaint  to our 
service on behalf of Miss M about  how Santander  had handled  the issue.
During the course of our investigation we spoke to Miss M directly. During our first direct 
conversation with her she disclosed that Mr X did not have the relationship with her he told 
us about. Rather  he was her ex-husband. She explained that they were  only married  for a 
short time and during  that time he coerced her into taking out a large amount of credit, from 
various providers, and that their relationship had been abusive.  
Miss M explained that the car she had obtained  through the conditional sale agreement with 
Santander was never  intended to be for her but was for Mr X. In fact he had tried to get the 
car on credit a week earlier, at the same car dealership via Santander, but his application 
had been unsuccessful.  When  he returned with Miss M he arranged everything with the 
dealership directly and until very recently  had the car in his sole possession.  
When our investigator looked  into the complaint she found that Santander was wrong to offer 
the finance to Miss M in the first instance. She believed that the checks which Santander 
had done, which were basic, had not gone  far enough. If Santander had done more  than just 
basic credit  checks  it would  have  been  apparent that Miss M was always  going  to struggle to 
meet her monthly repayments and just could not afford them. A more  thorough  check would 
also have shown that Miss M had taken out a large amount of credit over a very short  period  
of time; and this noticeable change in behaviour could have been an indicator that she was 
in a vulnerable  position.  
Our investigator asked  Santander to cancel the credit agreement  and take the car back at no 
cost to Miss M. In addition she asked it to refund the full deposit paid for the car along  with 
8% simple  interest,  and write off the outstanding balance removing any reference to the 
agreement from Miss Ms credit file. 
Santander responded by saying it was inappropriate for this service to comment  on the types 
of checks it has in place  or how it establishes its lending criteria.  It made  no reference to 
Miss Ms potential vulnerability  or the nature  of the relationship between her and Mr X other 
than to say it has no  control or influence over a customers personal relationships.   It 
Ref: DRN27322022rejected the investigators suggested resolution and asked for a formal  decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Santander has said that it carried out all the relevant  checks  it was obliged to and there was 
nothing in those  checks that indicated Miss M would struggle to meet her monthly 
repayments. In addition it has said that at no time did Mr X indicate that Miss M would 
struggle to meet her monthly repayments  when  he was discussing the repayments with 
Santander on her behalf.  
The obligations that lenders should  follow, in order to ensure they lend responsibly, are set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). In particular CONC 5 and CONC 5A make reference to responsible lending and 
the standards businesses are expected to adhere to when  providing  finance to consumers. 
CONC states, amongst  other things, that businesses  are required to treat consumer with due 
care and diligence.  In this particular  case I believe that Santander  has failed in its duty to 
treat Miss M with the necessary levels of care or diligence. 
According to its records  when Miss M and Mr X went to the car dealership to apply for 
finance, Santander undertook an in house credit  check  and also checked Miss Ms credit 
score on Experian. We asked for information  on the in house credit  check  and what it 
entailed. Santander  refused to share  this information with us, so we have only been able to 
review the information  that Santander wouldve seen on the Experian check it carried  out. 
Looking at that, I can see that Miss M had taken out over £18,000  in credit in the five months  
before she applied for this loan, £16,000 of which was for another car. And the information 
inputted to calculate her monthly  credit  commitment contained no amount for rent/mortgages  
and the cost of the monthly repayments for this finance also had not been included.  Given  
the amount of pre-existing debt, and the fact that the new agreement would require 
additional monthly repayments in excess of £650,  I wouldve  expected Santander to have 
asked for more information  from Miss M to ensure  that she was going  to be able to meet  
this, not unsubstantial,  commitment. 
Miss M has told us that Mr X forced her to lie on her application and state  that she was in full 
time employment and earning several  thousand pounds a month when  she was not. Rather 
Miss M only had part time agency work and had no guaranteed fixed  income at the time. 
When we asked Miss M to provide us with copies of her bank statements her employment  
status and the fact that she was already struggling  financially became clear. For the six 
month period  previous to this application  Miss M had been living within  her overdraft.  She 
was in no position financially to increase her monthly outgoings by this amount. This is 
reflected in the fact that Miss M failed to meet the first monthly repayment when it came due. 
Santander responded to this point by stating it is entitled to rely on the information that 
consumers provide it. If it is provided with incorrect or false  information it is fraud on the part 
of the consumer and not the fault of the business.  I do accept that businesses need to be 
able to rely on information that consumers give them in order  to function. However, the 
guidelines set out in CONC  state that in some situations it is necessary, both for the sake  of 
the consumer  and that of the business,  to carry out more substantial checks. In this instance 
Ref: DRN27322023I believe the information on the Experian  credit file, regarding existing commitments and the 
time frame they were  taken out, was enough  to alert Santander it needed to perform a more 
thorough affordability  check. If it had carried out this check, as its obliged  to, I dont believe 
Santander would have provided Miss M with the finance as it wouldve been apparent she 
couldnt afford it. 
In addition to the issues  surrounding the lack of affordability is Miss Ms vulnerability. 
Santander has responded to our request to remove all traces of this finance  from her credit 
file by saying that it would result  in Miss M having a clean credit file and being able to obtain  
credit once again. It asked us how doing  this will help Miss M avoid similar financial 
problems in the future.
Im satisfied, on balance, based on the information  I have seen and shared with Santander, 
Miss M is a survivor  of domestic abuse  and was coerced into taking out this credit  for a car 
that was used by her ex-husband.  Further it does not appear that Santander disputes this. A 
number of recent reports by the British Banking Association,  the FCA and the womens 
charity Refuge, all speak  at length  about  the devastating, long lasting and negative impact 
financial abuse can have  on victims. 
Our role here is to come  to a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties. Given the 
obligations set out in CONC,  and the recent work  done by the FCA on identifying and 
supporting vulnerable consumers, and relevant industry guidance such  as UK Finances 
financial abuse code  of practice,  I believe  that Santander failed to provide Miss M the duty of 
care and diligence it owed her. And I dont  agree that removing all traces  of this agreement 
from her credit file would be inappropriate.  Instead continuing to insist that she lives with the 
consequences of being a victim of domestic and financial abuse is contrary to the underlying 
principles of the relevant provisions I mention above and is therefore unfair to her. 
In conclusion I find that if Santander had carried out proportionate checks, as it is obliged  to 
do, it would  have recognised that Miss M couldnt afford  the finance she was applying  for. 
And it may have also helped to identify her as someone in a financially vulnerable  position  
who by reason of that vulnerability  ought  not to have been lent to in the particular 
circumstances of this individual complaint. For all of these reasons I am upholding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Ref: DRN27322024my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc should:
Cancel Miss Ms conditional  sales agreement and take back  the car at no cost to 
Miss M.
Refund the deposit of £1,343.75  along with simple interest  at 8% per year the interest  
to run from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Write  off the outstanding finance  balance  with nothing  further  owed by Miss M; and
Remove any reference to the agreement from Miss Ms credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2732202