K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about Ambant Limiteds service in connection with renewing his motor  
insurance policy.
Reference to Ambant includes its agents.
background
In January 2017 Ambant arranged an insurance policy for Mr P. The next year,  in 
January 2018  on the day it was due to renew  Ambant rang him. It said he hadn't  contacted  it 
about renewing his policy  and asked  if he wanted to renew with it. Mr P confirmed that he 
did.
In December 2018 Ambant posted  a letter to Mr P offering to renew the policy  from 
January 2019.  The letter said that Mr P needed  to go online - or to telephone Ambant - in 
order to renew his policy. Mr P said he didn't get the letter  and so didnt contact  Ambant to 
renew his policy.
In February 2019  Mr P was stopped by the police for driving while uninsured.  He eventually 
received a £300 fine and points on his licence as a result. Mr P complained to Ambant. It 
didn't think  it had done anything wrong, but offered Mr P £200  as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at it and didn't think  
Ambant had dealt  with Mr P fairly. Our investigator  noted that Mr P had a responsibility  to 
make sure that he was insured to drive. But he didn't think Ambant had done  enough to let 
Mr P know  that his policy wouldn't automatically  renew. So the investigator recommended  
that Ambant:
Pay Mr P £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience
Reimburse Mr P the £300  fine he had to pay for driving uninsured.
In recognition that Mr Ps future premiums were likely to be affected by the points on 
his licence for some years to come, pay him a further sum of £758.55.
Ambant said that our investigator's recommendation didn't account for Mr Ps own 
responsibility for ensuring he remained insured.  To reflect that it offered to pay half the sums 
our investigator recommended. Mr P didn't agree to that offer so the complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ps made a number of detailed  points.  I've considered 
everything on file carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigator's assessment of the complaint.
When Mr P spoke  with Ambant about  renewing his policy in Jan 2018 he asked  for future  
renewal quotes  to be in paper form. And Ambant told him that if it changed its system to do 
paper contact then it wouldn't  send  him any further  policy information by email. Mr P 
Ref: DRN21480842confirmed he was happy with that arrangement.  So I think  Ambant acted fairly in sending  the 
renewal invitation  to Mr P in the post in December 2018.
I've seen that the letter Ambant sent to Mr P was correctly addressed and Ambant has a 
record on its system  that it posted the letter. So Im satisfied that Ambant did actually post 
the letter. It follows that I don't think Ambant is responsible for Mr P not receiving it. But it 
didn't take any follow up action after that. And I don't  think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. That's because the legal  implications of driving without insurance are 
significant. And I think its important that insurance  brokers like Ambant do more  than make 
just one unsuccessful  attempt to contact a policyholder when their policy is due for renewal  
and might otherwise  lapse.
Its notable that the last meaningful contact  between Ambant and Mr P, save for marketing 
emails, had been a phone call in January 2018. At the end of that call Ambant told Mr P that 
21 days before his policy was due to renew  it would  contact him to offer automatic renewal. 
And its evident that Mr P was still waiting for that contact  and that's why he didn't realise his 
renewal date had passed. So while I don't think Ambant was at fault for the initial  letter going 
missing, I think  that at the very least it should  have sent a second letter  - or contacted Mr P 
by some other means,  for example by phone,  as it had done a year earlier  - to let him know 
that his policy would  lapse if he didn't take action  to renew it. But because  it didn't do so the 
policy lapsed leading  to Mr P being  stopped  by the police for driving without insurance.
Ambant said it shouldn't be held solely responsible for the impact  of Mr P being stopped by 
the police. And that Mr P should shoulder  some  of the burden of responsibility.  But I think  its 
more likely than not that if Ambant had made  a second attempt to contact Mr P to tell him 
that his policy was about to lapse then hed have  taken action to prevent that from 
happening. And had that been the case then Mr P wouldn't have driven uninsured  and 
wouldn't have  had to face the consequences  of having done so. It follows  that in those 
circumstances I think its fair that Ambant  go some way to try to put Mr P back  into the 
position he would have been in if it had let him know that his policy was about to lapse. So 
I've thought about what it needs to do to put things right.
Mr Ps premium  increased by £303.42  because of the additional points on his licence. And 
it's likely those points  will affect  his premiums for around five years. That said,  I'm aware  that 
insurers will likely think that the increased  risk those points represent  will decline over time. 
And while I can't say what the exact  impact will be on Mr Ps premiums  over the years I think 
a fair way to work out how much compensation is due is to work out the initial  increase  
(£303.42) and multiply  that by the number of years hell be affected for (five) and divide that 
sum by two. That produces  a figure  of £758.55. So I think Ambant should compensate Mr P 
in that sum.
Also, Mr P had to pay a fine of £300,  so I think Ambant should  reimburse  him that amount. 
And, as this matter has clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr P I think 
Ambant should  pay him a further £400 compensation to address that. I think  that figure  is fair 
and reasonable as its in line with other awards we make in cases  of similar seriousness.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Ambant Limited to:
Reimburse Mr P £300 for the fine he paid for driving while  uninsured.
Pay Mr P £400 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN21480843Pay Mr P a further £758.55 compensation for the impact in his future insurance 
premiums.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr P has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Ambant considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2148084