K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs Y are unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  has treated 
them whilst theyve been struggling to pay their mortgage. Theyre  also unhappy  that Halifax 
wouldnt lend them more money so they could move to a larger  property.
background
Mr H and Mrs Y have  a mortgage with Halifax. In 2011 they went  into arrears. The situation 
deteriorated until mid-2016, at which time Mr H and Mrs Y entered into an arrangement of 
£1,650 a month which would cover their mortgage payment plus start reducing the arrears. 
In July 2017 Halifax agreed to capitalise the arrears  (which  were over £15,000) and then in 
September 2017 a new fixed rate product was agreed.
Around the same time Mr H and Mrs Y said they wanted to move to a new larger property 
and asked Halifax if they could increase their mortgage debt.  Halifax was unwilling to lend 
them any extra  money as they didnt meet its lending criteria at that time. Mr H and Mrs Y 
say they then took a £35,000 second charge with another lender so they could extend their 
existing home.
In 2018 Halifax  refunded  various arrears fees,  and undertook a remediation  exercise 
following guidance from the regulator which asked lenders  to exclude mortgage arrears  from 
the balance when working out monthly payments.  Halifax reviewed the account  from 
June 2010 to June 2018 and that led to a revised monthly payment being due.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr H and Mrs Ys complaint. Mr H and Mrs Y didnt agree and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties.
Its not a matter of us ignoring their points and Mr Hs health concerns  and just looking at 
things from Halifaxs point  of view as Mr H and Mrs Y have said. Instead we look at things 
independently without taking sides. By the very nature of what  we deal with that normally 
means one party loses  - whether that is the consumer  or the business  - but that doesnt 
mean weve not considered everything or that weve paid more  attention  to one sides 
arguments over the others.
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr H and Mrs Ys difficulty in getting on top of their arrears  was anything 
but temporary. Theres no doubt  theyve gone through  very difficult  times, and continue to do 
so. Mr H told us that hes been  out of work since the end of 2017 and his health has 
Ref: DRN22781672worsened significantly. Ive not gone into detail about Mr Hs ill-health to respect his privacy,  
but I understand the condition Mr H has and his explanation of how his condition has 
deteriorated over the years.
The pressure to make  their mortgage  payments  against such a backdrop must have been  
immense for Mr H and Mrs Y, and Im not unsympathetic towards them  in that regard. But 
my impartiality means I must also have regard for Halifaxs point of view.  
Everything has a context. Mr H and Mrs Y talk about the pressure they received from 
Halifax, that Halifax didnt  care about  Mr Hs ill-health, and that he was forced to return  to 
work in 2016 to the detriment of his health. But from Halifaxs side, Mr H and Mrs Y owed it 
money and for many years they hadnt  met all their contractual repayments. For a period of 
six months in late 2015 and early 2016  no payments were made to the mortgage, and then 
for the next four months the only payments made  were by the Department  for Work and 
Pensions with those not even covering the mortgage interest for those months.
By August 2016, when Mr H and Mrs Y started  making payments again, their account was 
over £18,000 in arrears  which equated to 14 months  of payments. Having considered 
everything it seems Halifax showed  patience and leniency towards  Mr H and Mrs Y for a 
number of years; it wasnt obliged to do so indefinitely.
Halifax agreed a repayment  arrangement of £1,400 a month and it was willing to accept that 
sum. It was Mr H who went back to Halifax and said he wanted to pay £1,650  a month.  Hes 
said thats not because he wanted to, but because  Halifax said it would reduce the time.  Im 
not sure what Mr H and Mrs Y think Halifax did wrong there as thats factually correct, the 
higher the amount they could pay towards their arrears the sooner they would be reduced  
and/or repaid. So Halifax gave Mr H factual information, and he and Mrs Y made the 
decision to make a higher  payment  than Halifax required of them.
Halifax refunded  some  fees to Mr H and Mrs Ys mortgage account under a remediation 
exercise. It also reviewed their account  between June 2010 and June 2018 following 
guidance from the regulator which asked  lenders  to exclude mortgage arrears  from the 
balance when working out monthly  payments. That exercise led to a revised monthly  
payment being  due.
To decide this element of Mr H and Mrs Ys complaint Ive reviewed their mortgage payment  
history. In doing  so, the question Ive asked myself is was there any material effect on Mr H 
and Mrs Ys account that meant Halifax would likely have taken different action(s)? Having  
done so Im satisfied  that Halifax would likely have taken broadly  the same  actions  at the 
same time. This is because the size of the fees in relation to the level of arrears,  and the 
payments Mr H and Mrs Y made to their mortgage account over the years  against those that 
would have been due, were fairly insignificant in the broader picture of the conduct of the 
account.
I can understand Mr H and Mrs Ys frustration  that Halifax wasnt willing to increase the 
mortgage to allow them to move to a larger home.  But I dont think Halifax  has acted 
unreasonably in applying its policy as it did. Businesses make a commercial  decision about 
the lending theyre  willing  to agree to. Here, Mr H and Mrs Y had a long history of not 
meeting their full mortgage payments and so it doesnt seem unreasonable  to not increase 
their indebtedness  at that time.
Ref: DRN22781673Having considered everything  Im satisfied Halifax has acted reasonably and so I make  no 
order or award of compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2278167