K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mr W says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold him a PPI policy  to 
cover his Halifax mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
St Andrews had to make it clear that the policy was optional and Mr W had to agree to take 
it out. Mr W has said that he didnt know he had the policy and was not consulted on taking it 
out. Neither Mr W nor St Andrews have  been  able to provide much  of the paperwork from 
the time of the sale, which isnt surprising considering this was more than 11 years  ago. So in 
cases like this I need to decide what I think is more likely to have happened.
St Andrews has told us the policy was taken out by phone and it says it would  have made 
the optional nature clear. It no longer has a copy of the call recording, which isnt unusual 
after all this time, but St Andrews has been able to provide us with a letter  that was sent to 
Mr W following  the sale of the policy. I can see this letter refers  to Mr W choosing  to take out 
the policy. It also confirms that a direct debit instruction had been  completed to enable the 
premiums to be deducted from his account.  I can see this letter also confirms  that the policy  
could be cancelled at any time. If Mr W didnt agree to take out the PPI, or if it hadnt been 
discussed with him, I think he would have questioned this with St Andrews when he received  
this letter.
Im also aware that the policy was taken out a year after Mr Ws mortgage had started, which  
would suggest  that it wasnt a requirement  of the mortgage that Mr W took out this cover.  
And, as it was taken  out such a long time after the initial mortgage, I think  its likely Mr W 
would have noticed when the charge  for this insurance started  to be taken from his account.
So based  on the limited information  I have seen, I think  its more likely St Andrews made it 
clear Mr W didnt have  to take out the policy and Mr W agreed to take it, knowing he could 
refuse it if he didnt want it.
St Andrews  says it recommended the PPI to Mr W. This means it had to make sure that the 
policy was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances,  I think  that that it 
was. I say this because it appears  Mr W was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations of the cover, such as having unusual  working  
arrangements or a medical condition of which he was already aware.
And I think this policy could have provided him with a useful benefit. Mr W has told us that he 
was entitled to at least  three months  sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work and 
he also had some savings  he could have used. But this policy would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to accident  or sickness.  
And this would have  been  in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any sick pay he may 
Ref: DRN23001222have received. And it would have paid out for the same length  of time if Mr W was to lose his 
job. By having this policy it would mean that Mr W could protect any savings  or other  funds 
he may have had for another purpose  or use them to help cover other essential living costs. 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive mentioned above, I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
So overall, when  taking everything  into account, I dont think  Mr W has lost out as a result of 
anything that St Andrews  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2300122