K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Leeds  Building Society  put him under pressure because  of arrears  on 
his mortgage account. Mr K wants Leeds  to reduce his arrears  account to zero and cancel 
the arrears charges.
background
Mr K has a mortgage with Leeds.  Mr K wanted  to delay his mortgage  payments as one of his 
family had passed  away and he needed money for the repatriation and funeral costs. Mr K 
contacted the Society but says that it declined his request. Mr K wanted to repay the arrears 
at £100 per month whilst  he considered selling the property or remortgaging.
Leeds says that Mr K contacted it on 21 February  2018. A payment was due in February  of 
£369.19 and in March of £691.98. Mr K explained that he couldnt  make the February  
payment and wanted to pay it at £30 per month  in future months. Leeds says that Mr Ks 
income and expenditure showed he had a monthly  surplus of £800  so it was unwilling to 
accept a long term arrangement  but would accept the reduced payment for two months and 
then review the situation. Mr K didnt make  the February, March or April payments. Leeds  
sent Mr K reminder letters and charged his account  with arrears management fees. Leeds 
says that it asked Mr K to get in touch to see if a repayment arrangement  could be agreed.  
After consideration  Leeds said that it would accept Mr Ks proposal  to pay £100 per month to 
pay off the arrears although  this would affect  his credit file. Our adjudicator didnt  
recommend that this complaint should  be upheld as he felt that Leeds  had acted  reasonably 
to assist Mr K.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K clearly  had a number of problems in the spring  and summer of 2018 including  a family 
bereavement, arranging  the funeral and then Mr K lost his job that he had for a long time.  
Mr K also was hospitalised due to his anxiety, and acute depression.  Mr K had a mortgage  
with Leeds and my role is to assess whether Leeds did anything  wrong in its dealings with 
Mr K.
When Mr K first dealt with Leeds  in February  2018, he still had a job and an income,  the 
problem was that he had a short term strain  on his finances to arrange a funeral and a 
repatriation of the deceased  abroad. We would expect  the Society to be sympathetic. Leeds 
appears to have looked at Mr Ks income  and expenditure.  It wasnt obvious after this 
enquiry that Mr K couldnt  afford the monthly payments but in any case  Leeds agreed  that 
Mr K could forego the February payment  and pay £30 per month for two months and then 
review it. I cant say that in the circumstances this was unfair  although I noted from the 
phone conversation at the time that Mr K wasnt happy with Leeds response. Although  Mr K 
didnt make the payments in the next three months,  Leeds, after consideration agreed to 
Mr Ks offer to pay off the arrears at £100  per month.
Ref: DRN22772922This complaint goes  back to how Leeds dealt  with Mr Ks account in the spring and summer 
of 2018. Leeds was reluctant to agree  to Mr Ks proposal to pay £30 per month for missing 
the February payment because his income and expenditure indicated that Mr K could afford  
more. But Leeds  agreed to it short term. That seems  reasonable. However, Mr Ks problems 
were greater than missing the February payment. Mr K then proposed  to pay off the arrears  
at £100 per month which Leeds agreed  to. So, I cant say that Leeds has been 
unsympathetic to Mr K. 
Unfortunately there still appears to be an arrears  problem and like our adjudicator  I would 
urge Mr K to contact Leeds if he hasnt already done so to discuss whether an alternative 
payment arrangement can be agreed. I also note that Mr K may have a separate complaint 
about Leeds fees and charges  which  I havent dealt with here. But for the reasons  stated  I 
dont believe  that Leeds did anything wrong  in the way it dealt with Mr Ks account in the 
spring and summer  of 2018. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2277292