K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining about  the amount Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS)  
has charged him after he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase agreement.
background
In December 2014 Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car. The 
agreement was to run for 48 months. In February 2018 Mr M voluntarily  terminated  the 
agreement and handed the car back.  VWFS arranged for the car to be inspected and said 
that there  was damage which it didnt think was down to usual  wear  and tear. And it charged 
Mr M £1,190.16 plus VAT, which it said was the cost of fixing  the damage.
Mr M arranged for the car to go to a local garage  who did further rectification work and he 
said he spent around £700 to put the car into an acceptable state. He said he didnt use an 
authorised garage  because he said that there is only one authorised garage which  he thinks 
has an unfair monopoly on the market. And he thinks  this means  that it is excessively 
expensive. But he thinks the repairs his local garage  did were fair. He also commented  that 
hes been charged £247.56 by VWFS for a fully functioning tyre, which  he thinks  is unfair.
VWFS reviewed  Mr Ms complaint and agreed  to waive some  of the charges as it thought 
some of the issues had been resolved between inspection and collection. But it still thought  
there were some outstanding issues. So it said Mr M still owed  £722.76 plus VAT. 
Mr M still doesnt think the amount VWFS is charging him for the rectification work is fair. 
And he doesnt think VWFS gave  him reasonable competitive options for fixing the car.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as he was satisfied that the issues  VWFS still 
said were outstanding would be considered outside  of the range of fair wear and tear. And 
he also didnt think the amount it was charging Mr M for the damage was unreasonable.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator as he still thought the amount that VWFS was 
charging him for each repair was unreasonable. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicator,  the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
The terms of Mr Ms finance agreement with VWFS  set out the following:
3.2 You [Mr M] will be responsible for any damage  to or deterioration of the Vehicle which is 
in excess of fair wear  and tear commensurate  with the age and mileage of the vehicle.
So VWFS is entitled to charge Mr M for any damage  on the car that would  be considered 
more than fair wear  and tear. It should  be noted that the car had travelled around 61,000 
miles at the point Mr M handed it back to VWFS. So the car had travelled  a reasonable 
distance and its reasonable to expect there to be some wear  to it as a result.  But I also have 
Ref: DRN24037932to take into account  the fact that Mr M had acquired a high performance  and expensive car. 
So I think this would  reduce the acceptance of what damage would be considered fair wear  
and tear.
Ive looked at the damage that VWFS thinks is more than fair wear  and tear. In assessing 
whether damage  would be considered  more  than fair wear and tear its common  practice to 
review this against guidelines set out by the British Vehicle  Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). These guidelines are designed to be applicable to cars that were provided  new at 
the point of sale.  But Mr Ms car was only a few months old and had only travelled around 
7,000 miles when  it was supplied to him. So I think its fair to apply the BVRLA  guidelines in 
this case. 
Having done so, I agree that the damage  would  be considered is more  than fair wear and 
tear and more  than what a reasonable person would expect  for a car with similar  mileage for 
the following  reasons:
Mr M says that VWFS has charged him to replace a tyre that he thinks was fully-
functioning. But the photographs of the tyre show that it had a deep cut on the side wall 
of the tyre and it would need  replacing  to make the tyre road legal;
The photographs show that all the alloy wheels have a significant number of scratches, 
marks and/or dents and gouges which  I think are beyond reasonable wear and tear. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for VWFS  to say that they will need refurbishing;  
VWFS has said that there  was a poor repair to the paintwork on the left-hand rear door 
and right-hand rear quarter panel. Ive looked  at this and I can see that there are 
differences to the paintwork around the area where repairs  were carried  out and to the 
adjacent panel  work.  The paintwork appears  rippled  in the area where Mr Ms garage did 
repairs but has a smoother finish elsewhere. I dont think its unreasonable for VWFS to 
charge for that.
The rear bumper has a number of scratches  which I think  it was fair for VWFS to say 
were poorly repaired. And I also think they are beyond  what  Id reasonably expect.
Ultimately, I think  all these  issues are beyond reasonable wear and tear taking into account  
the make  and model of the car and its age and mileage.
I note Mr M doesnt think the amount VWFS  is charging him for the rectification work is fair, 
as he doesnt  think VWFS have given  him reasonable competitive options  for fixing  the car. 
But Mr M was given  the chance  to fix the issues before he returned  the car to VWFS. If hes 
unhappy with the quality  of the repair work his garage did, hell need  to raise it with that 
garage. 
Ive looked at the amount  VWFS is charging Mr M for each issue.  But I dont think its 
unreasonable. It needs to be noted that Mr M had acquired an expensive high-end car. And 
its not unusual  for the costs of repair to be higher  than a more standard car  especially in 
respect to the cost of replacing a tyre. I dont  think VWFSs estimated  cost of rectification 
work is unreasonable in the circumstances.  
Ultimately, VWFS is entitled to charge Mr M the cost of fixing  damage to or deterioration of 
the car which is more  than fair wear  and tear for the cars age and mileage. And Im satisfied 
that its charging Mr M fairly in this case.
Ref: DRN24037933my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2403793