K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  Santander UK Plc (Santander)  have sent correspondence detailing  her 
current address to a previous address.
background 
Miss S bought  her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response shed received 
from Santander. Shed sent Santander  copies of two letters that had been forwarded  to her 
by a third party.  The first one was a covering letter to a previous address. The second letter  
contained information about  the switching of an account and was addressed to her current  
address. She was concerned as the previous address on the covering letter was that of a 
former partner who she didnt want to know her new address but, she now thought, did.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint initially. They told her their back  office  team had 
confirmed theyd only sent out documents  to her current address.  Santander said as both the 
letters Miss S had sent them  had different addresses they wouldnt send those  out together.  
But during  our investigation Santander  changed  their position. They  told us that although 
Miss S's address  was updated on their systems, another account she held with them  was 
still linked  to her previous  address. 
Santander said as a consequence, when sending the letter  about switching accounts,  the 
system linked the previous address as the correspondence address hence  the cover  slip 
letter and the enclosed switching letter detailing her current residential  address. They  
expressed sincere apologies  for this error and the subsequent complaint handling service 
Miss S experienced. They said the system was now amended  so both correspondence and 
residential addresses were recorded as Miss Ss current address. They offered £250 
compensation for the mistakes  and the distress  and inconvenience which they later 
increased to £500.
Our investigator understood Santanders error  had a significant impact on Miss S and her 
daughter and appreciated this was a distressing time for them both.  But overall she thought 
the offer of £500 compensation made by Santander  was fair and in line with what  she would 
have suggested.  She also told Miss S that any concerns she held in relation  to Santander 
breaching data projection should be referred to the Information Commissioners  Office  
(ICO).
Miss S didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the case. She told us she had 
received further  correspondence from her former partner  and now felt she had to move 
home. She thought compensation of £3500 was fair. She felt very strongly  the £500 
compensation offered didnt reflect the poor customer service,  lack of care in looking at the 
original complaint, breach of confidential information  and the distress this error had caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already  told Miss S. I think  shes 
covered most points  quite clearly. Theres no dispute Santander  made multiple mistakes 
here. In addition to writing  to her at an old address they initially  gave Miss S information  that 
Ref: DRN26843762was clearly wrong and I think that was unhelpful.  But I think  Santander has tried to put things 
right by  eventually  saying  sorry, amending  their records and offering compensation.
So, the remaining  issue for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation now 
offered is fair and reasonable. It isnt my role to punish businesses  for making mistakes,  nor 
can I ask a bank  to pay compensation for something  that couldve happened. Its my role to 
put consumers  back into the position  they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt been  
made. So, Im looking at the impact the error actually had on Miss S no-one else. I cant  
make an award for the inconvenience or upset of others. Theres  no evidence to suggest 
Miss S has suffered any loss as a result of the mistakes, although I do understand this has 
been a worrying  and stressful time for her.
Overall, looking at all the information available to me, I think the compensation now offered 
is reasonable. Its the sort of award Id have  made  had it not been suggested by Santander. 
So Im not going to ask Santander to increase  the offer.
Given how strongly Miss S feels about  what happened she may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes  our investigator  can provide contact details for the ICO if 
required. But my decision  brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Santander informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints  Miss S.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc have made a reasonable offer to settle this 
complaint. Santander  UK Plc should  pay £500  compensation to Miss S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019. 
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2684376