K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the quality of a vehicle sold to him under a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
background
Mr M bought  a pre-owned  vehicle in April 2018.  He used finance from Black Horse,  and is 
due to make  payments of about  £593  a month for five years.
The vehicle was about five years old when  Mr M bought it and had done just over 46,000 
miles.
Some time later Mr M started to notice problems. He approached Black Horse about  these. 
Black Horse  arranged for an independent  inspection of the vehicle. Based on this report, 
Black Horse  agreed to pay for all the necessary repairs. And it gave Mr M £673.84 
compensation (20% of his payments  up to that date) to make up for his inconvenience.
Shortly after that Mr M complained that the vehicle  was fitted  with the wrong tyres  and 
Black Horse  paid for these to be replaced.
Mr M wants Black Horse to pay extra compensation, although he hasnt said what he thinks  
is fair.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought Black Horse  
had treated Mr M fairly  by repairing the faults,  and that the compensation was also fair.
Mr M doesnt agree  and he says there are now more faults becoming apparent  so he 
wants to return the vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  did, for much the same reasons.
Mr M is entitled  to ask Black Horse  to help him with the problems hes experienced with this 
vehicle, as the provisions  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) provide him with some 
protection given  he borrowed money  to buy the vehicle. In summary,  if the vehicle has faults 
that were present or developing  when  he bought  the vehicle, hes entitled,  in some 
circumstanes, to ask Black Horse to put things right. 
The first thing Id expect Black Horse  to do is get an independent report  about  the faults  
and if they were present at the point of sale, arrange to pay for repairs.
Thats what  Black Horse  did for Mr M.
It also paid him some  compensation - £673.84.  I think this was generous.  Mr M hasnt said 
hes been without  his vehicle  or not for very long  and hes managed to drive  about 4,000 
miles between  buying the vehicle and it being  inspected about six months later.  Thats about 
average mileage,  so I cant say hes been  very inconvenienced by the faults, although I do 
Ref: DRN21465002expect hes been  disappointed with his new vehicle. I wouldnt ask Black Horse to pay 
additional compensation.
Black Horse  also arranged for the tyres to be changed. I cant say this should attract  
additional compensation, as its a relatively straightforward thing to do and wouldnt have left 
Mr M without  his vehicle for long.
Given that Black Horse has acted fairly towards Mr M I cant see any reason to uphold this 
complaint.
Mr M says there are new faults developing.  And he says Black Horse wont look at these 
until this complaint is resolved. There isnt any compelling reason why it shouldnt  look at 
new problems  and treat them as entirely separate from this complaint. Id expect Black 
Horse to do that in the near future.  If Mr M is unhappy with the results of the new 
assessment of faults then he might be able to bring  a complaint to this service in the future.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2146500