K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains about CIS General  Insurance Limiteds (CIS) handling of a claim on his car 
insurance policy.
Background
Mr M has a car insurance policy with CIS. He made  a claim on the policy following an 
incident in which his car was damaged. CIS arranged for Mr Ms car to be examined and 
repaired. Mr M wasnt happy the cars  rear wiper  hadnt been  repaired. CIS said there  was 
no evidence that damage was from the incident.  
Mr M said he wasnt informed the wiper wasnt going to be repaired. He said if he had been 
told this hed have  chosen not to have the rest of the damage repaired under the policy. He 
was also unhappy  with the way his phone calls to CIS were handled.
CIS rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said it had told him when he wanted  to claim for the 
damage that the damage to the wiper might  not be covered. And it said its engineer had 
confirmed there was no evidence the wiper had been damaged in the incident. It also said it 
didnt think its advisors  had done  anything  wrong  in the phone  calls.
Mr M didnt  accept CIS decision.  He was unhappy CIS had said it might cancel his policy 
when it responded  to his complaint. He brought his complaint to this service. Mr M also 
complained about the courtesy  car which was provided while  his car was being repaired.  He 
said hed paid for additional  cover  to provide for a car similar to his own. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. She thought  CIS had acted reasonably. She said 
Mr M hadnt mentioned  the wiper in his first call to CIS. And she thought  the evidence  of the 
engineer was persuasive and the damage to the wiper  wasnt caused in the incident.  She 
also thought the additional  hire car cover only applied in cases where the policyholders  car 
had been stolen or written off. So she was satisfied  it didnt apply in Mr Ms case.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome. He acknowledged he hadnt  told CIS about the wiper  
originally, but this was because  he thought if he told it the damage was limited  to a scratch it 
wouldnt affect his premium. And he hes not happy about how much CIS had paid a third 
party. And hes asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened  to the phone calls, Im satisfied Mr M didnt mention any potential damage to 
the wiper on the first two occasions he spoke  to CIS. When  he did mention it in the third 
phone call, the advisor he spoke to was clear  it might not be covered. When  that happened,  
he didnt suggest  he would not want to go ahead with the repairs if this was the case.  
I can appreciate Mr M may have had the impression that the wiper would be repaired.  He 
wasnt told otherwise  when he took the car in for repair and before CISs repairer carried 
them out. But Im satisfied the engineers view that the wiper  wasnt  damaged in the incident 
is correct. This is because the engineer  has inspected this area of the car and the theres no 
evidence of impact to that area.  And the incident  as described by Mr M seems unlikely to 
Ref: DRN20651862have caused this problem. I note Mr M has not provided any evidence, other than his 
opinion, to show the engineer is wrong.  The other repair work that was carried out to Mr Ms 
car cost around £600. And he didnt mention he wouldnt go ahead  with the rest of repairs 
when he was told the wiper might  not be covered. In light of this, I think Mr M would  still have 
gone ahead  with the rest of the repairs if hed been  told the wiper repair wasnt included  by 
the repairer before they started the rest of the repairs.  
I can see Mr M took out the additional  cover which provides  him with a courtesy car similar 
to his own about six weeks after he made  the claim. The terms and conditions  say this 
section doesnt  provide  cover for any claim  which  results from an incident which  occurs  
before the cover  is taken out. This is the case here.  In any event, the policy terms and 
conditions say that the similar car will only be provided in cases where the insured car is 
either written off or stolen. And that didnt happen  to Mr Ms car. So I dont think  Mr M was 
entitled to a courtesy car similar to his own.
In its response to Mr Ms complaint, CIS referred  to its rights in the terms and conditions to 
cancel the policy if customers  are abusive  to its advisors. I understand Mr M was upset by 
this. But in one of the calls he made to CIS he swore on a number of occasions when 
speaking to the advisor. And he became abusive towards  the advisor. CIS hasnt cancelled 
the policy. But I think it was appropriate  for it to refer to this condition  of the policy  in view of 
what Mr M said to its advisor. 
Ive listened to Mr Ms calls with CIS. I dont think CIS handled  them poorly. I think  the 
advisors explained the situation to him and explained the process appropriately. I dont think  
Mr M was misled  in any of the calls. And, as Ive also said,  Mr M was abusive and swore at 
one of the advisors. And I think their response  to this particular instance was appropriate.  
They asked Mr M to stop. He continued to be abusive, so the advisor terminated the call as 
theyd said they would. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Ms also unhappy about the amount  CIS have paid for damage caused to a third partys  
car and their hire car costs. Hes said the damage was minor and he initially wanted  to sort 
this directly with the third party.  But theyd claimed from CIS, as hed accepted fault for the 
incident. The third party was entitled  to claim from his insurance. I understand Mr M would 
have been frustrated about  this. It was going  to affect his premium. But, having been notified 
of the claim, Ive seen nothing to suggest  the handling of the third partys claim means CIS 
treated Mr M unfairly. The repair costs  were itemised. And the third party was entitled  to a 
hire car when the repairs were carried out, as Mr M had been when the repairs  were  made  
to his car. So Im satisfied  CISs  approach in settling  the third party claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065186