K820x#14complaint
Mr G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr G bought the policy in 1999 around  the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied 
for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mr Gs mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £13.63  a month.  
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a machine operator. He has told us he was entitled to 
Statutory Sick Pay (SSP) only and had no other  means of making his repayments.  Based on 
the information we have  about his employment at the time of sale I think its likely he also 
wouldve been entitled to some Statutory  Redundancy Pay (SRP). Mr G has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
RBS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Gs representative says:
RBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Gs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means RBS should  have told 
Mr G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means RBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr G and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN25530752The information Mr G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN25530753I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like RBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Gs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so RBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Gs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If RBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether RBS gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and RBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN25530754did Mr G know  he had a choice?
RBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Ive seen a copy  of Mr Gs signed 
PPI application  form. On it some of Mr Gs details  have  been entered  and the option for 
accident, sickness and unemployment  cover  has been selected.  If Mr G hadnt  wanted the 
PPI he couldve initialled the I do not require  Payment  Protection section which  has been 
left blank. Mr G has signed this form, so I think its likely to reflect what he wanted.  And 
theres nothing on the paperwork  from the sale to suggest the PPI was compulsory. Taking  
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr G knew  the policy  was optional and he 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
did RBS provide advice?
RBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mr G hasnt said whether he thinks  RBS 
provided advice  or not. Looking at what happened  when  RBS sold Mr G the PPI, Im not 
persuaded RBS did provide advice.
This means  RBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr G. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr G was given  a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr G was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment), of the monthly  benefit  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  on Mr Gs signed PPI application 
accident, sickness and unemployment  cover  has been selected, and the monthly benefit is 
stated as £250. The PPI application also included a direct debit instruction that Mr G has 
signed and I think  its unlikely Mr G would have taken out the policy without any sense of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  RBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost, how long the policy benefit would pay out for in the event 
of a successful claim, or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr G agreed to take out 
the policy. 
So I dont  think RBS gave  Mr G sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN25530755PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Gs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Gs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr G has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that RBS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did RBSs shortcomings have on Mr G? To what extent did Mr G suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that RBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr G. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr G would have  still 
taken out the policy,  had RBS done  things properly.  
Mr G says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr G had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr G chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr G thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr G has suffered any loss or detriment.  
The PPI application  form set out the monthly benefit  and that it covered him in the event of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, but the information about  other  aspects of the policy,  
such as the cost, how long the policy would pay out for and the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr G knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy (particularly because he signed  the direct debit section of the PPI application),  
it doesnt appear RBS told him the exact premium at the point he applied for the policy. 
Having said that, it seems likely Mr G would have been told the cost before the policy  started 
Ref: DRN25530756and he paid for the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs  were significantly at odds 
with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  he might have raised that with RBS at 
the time,  or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr G would  have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr G knew  about or 
should reasonably have  known  about before the start date of the policy,  or which  he 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor   in the 12 months  before 
the start of the policy and which recurred  within the 12 month period after the start 
date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do his own job or any job that he was qualified  to do by his experience,  education or 
training;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr G pause  for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr G was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr G 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr G didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr G 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr G had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do his job or any 
other job that he was qualified  to do by his experience,  education or training,  it might have 
played into his thinking about  what he would have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr G was unable (through  disability)  to carry  on his own occupation the chances that he 
would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN25530757RBS may not have  told Mr G that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period.  
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for, but he had limited 
other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr G would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensuring his home  was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr G would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr G would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr G would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr G 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
Ref: DRN25530758was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude RBS should pay Mr G compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr G thinks RBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
RBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why RBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  RBS gave Mr G, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Gs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find RBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr G and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that RBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr G in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2553075