K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that the tent she acquired  through a fixed sum loan agreement with Close  
Brothers Limited was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mrs E entered into a loan agreement with Close Brothers in February 2018 to acquire a tent 
and associated items. The tent and certain  items were delivered on 28 February with the 
final items being delivered on 14 March.
Mrs E took the tent on holiday and when she tried to put it up she noticed  a fault. She says 
the fault meant she had to pay for a replacement tent as well as suffer the inconvenience  of 
dealing with this. Mrs E reported the fault to the retailer  on 24 August and the tent was 
collected on 31 August.  Mrs E says that the retailer acknowledged there was a 
manufacturing fault with the tent. The tent was then returned on 18 October.
Close Brothers says that it has no involvement  in the services provided by the retailer and it 
considered this complaint to be service related. It noted the terms and conditions  set out by 
the retailer and that this required  any returns to be made within  the first 30 days. It says that 
it cannot authorise any refund request without the instruction coming from the retailer.  
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He noted that Mrs E raised her complaint  within  six 
months of acquiring the tent and said that the tent was not fit for purpose and so there had 
been a breach in contract. He said that under the regulations Close Brothers  could be held 
jointly liable. He recommended  that it arrange  for the collection of the tent and related 
accessories. He also said that the loan agreement should be rewritten  so that credit is only 
provided for the items  that were not returned  and a refund provided for any over payment.
Close Brothers did not accept our investigators view. It said that Mrs E had the right to reject 
the tent if the issue had been raised  within the first 30 days. However after this date,  and 
within the first six months, there was the right to a repair or replacement.  It said the retailer 
had agreed to this and the repair was carried out under the manufacturer guarantee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to asses the merits of each individual case. I take relevant regulations into account 
but my decision is based on what I think it fair and reasonable based  on the unique 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mrs E acquired a tent and associated items in February 2018. She financed this through a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Close Brothers.  Most  of the items were delivered  on 28 
February with some  remaining items being delivered in March.
Under the regulations Close Brothers  can be held liable if the items were not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. In this case it has been accepted that there was a fault with the 
tent.
Ref: DRN28189262I note the comments about  when Mrs E contacted the retailer. However, Mrs E has 
explained that the fault would not have been noticed by carrying  out a visual inspection. 
Instead it only became  apparent when she tried to put the tent up. Given the tent was bought  
for a holiday,  and also noting the size of the tent, I find it reasonable that Mrs E only became 
aware of the issue when  she was on holiday in August.
Mrs E contacted the retailer  about the fault within six months of acquisition. The tent had not 
been used and I note the comments about  a manufacturing fault.  Based on the information 
provided I find it more likely  than not that the issue with Mrs Es tent was due to a fault that 
was present at the point of supply.
Close Brothers has referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and said that as 
the fault was not identified within the first 30 days but within  the first six months, the retailer  
has a right to repair. It explained that this had happened under warranty.  
I understand the point that Close Brothers  has made. However,  my role is to consider what  
is fair in each case. Mrs E took the tent on holiday  and because she couldnt use it she had 
to acquire a new tent for her and her family. She used  the new tent on her holiday because  
the tent she acquired in February  was not fit for purpose. 
I do not find it fair that Mrs E should  be left with two tents due to the fault that occurred  with 
the first. Therefore I find the fair resolution  in this complaint is for Mrs E to be allowed to 
return the tent. There are also items that are associated with the tent which  Mrs E has set 
out and these should also be allowed to be returned.
Mrs E has said that other items bought under the loan agreement do not need  to be 
returned. Therefore  I find it reasonable that her agreement is amended to reflect the returned 
items and to then only cover the items she has kept. If, following the adjustment for the 
returned items her agreement has been overpaid, Mrs E should be refunded  the 
overpayment amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited should:
1.arrange for a convenient time for the tent and the tent specific accessories to be 
collected from Mrs E at no cost to her;
2.rewrite the agreement  so the credit  provided is only for the items  not being  returned; and
3.provide a refund if there has been an overpayment on the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2818926