K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage with Santander  in 1997. At the same time they were  sold 
a PPI policy which wouldve covered their mortgage  repayments for up to 24 months at a 
time if Mr V wasnt able to work.
Mr and Mrs V say they dont remember being given a choice about  taking  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs V 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The policy stood separately from the mortgage and Mr and Mrs V wouldve had to 
complete a separate application  form and direct debit mandate  to buy it. Santander 
say that the policy  wasnt compulsory and I havent seen any other evidence to 
suggest it was presented as such to Mr and Mrs V. On balance,  I think its likely 
Santander made it clear to Mr and Mrs V that they didnt have to take out the policy 
and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember 
this over 20 years later.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs V so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them and based  on what Ive seen of Mr Vs circumstances at the time 
(whom, the policy  covered), I think that it was. For example, he wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need 
for the cover as he was only entitled  to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay from 
his employer. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs V about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking  out the cover. 
So although  I think its possible Mr and Mrs V  didnt get all the information they shouldve 
done in relation to the policy,  I dont  think they lost out as a result. This means Santander 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V because:
Ref: DRN22422402When the policy was sold,  Santander  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr 
and Mrs V about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs V, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is 
fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs V have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs V the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs V 8%* simple  interest on each payment  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs V can claim back the tax if  they dont  pay tax
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
But Santanderr UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs V any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2242240