K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that True Potential Wealth Management  LLP (TPWM) gave him unsuitable  
advice to transfer the value of his deferred  benefits in a final salary occupational  pension 
scheme (OPS) to a self invested personal  pension  (SIPP).
background
Mr Y met with TPWM on 13 June 2018. A fact find was completed. It recorded Mr Y was 57 
and married with an adult daughter. He and his wife were in good  health. Their home was 
valued at £550,000.  Mr Y had a rental property, some savings and shares.  Neither he nor 
his wife was working  as they were caring for elderly relatives but they both intended to return  
to work in about  six months time. Mr Y was looking  to retire at 65. He wanted  to review a 
transfer value  of £574,397  plus an AVC (additional voluntary contribution)  fund of £52,375 
available from his OPS.  
TPWMs recommendation letter dated 15 June 2018 said Mr Y had been assessed  as a 
balanced investor, described  as:
The Balanced Investor  may be somewhat concerned with short-term losses  and may shift to 
a more stable  option in the event of significant  losses. The safeties  of investment and return 
are typically  of equal importance to the Balanced Investor.
The assumed growth  rate for a Balanced investor  is 5.57 %. 
It added that, on reflection, Mr Y felt his attitude  to risk would be better suited towards  capital 
growth, defined as:
The Growth  investor  may be willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in order to 
achieve higher  returns  on his or her investment. Significant losses  over an extended period 
may prompt the Growth Investor  to shift to a less risky investment.
The assumed growth  rate for a Capital Growth investor is 6.52 %.
TPWM referred  to the TVAS (transfer value analysis) undertaken. The critical yield  the 
annual growth  needed  to mirror the benefits offered by Mr Ys OPS  was 25.6% at age 60 if 
no pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) was taken or 16.01%  if Mr Y took a PCLS. 
The corresponding figures at age 65 were 10.27% and 6.87%. The report  added:
The critical yields at your retirement age of 65 are not achievable for a growth  risk investor 
However as you do not need to replicate the income benefits this makes the critical yield 
figures somewhat  redundant.
To purchase  an annuity to provide benefits of equal  value to the estimated benefits provided 
by the existing scheme at retirement the estimated Fund Required,  also known as the 
Capital Value is as follows: £1,139.908.25 if all benefits taken as pension or £885,186.00 if 
reduced pension  plus PCLS  is taken.
The report  then referred to the calculation in the TVAS report  about the age at which the 
fund would be fully depleted if Mr Y drew the same  income as was on offer from his OPS 
and assuming the personal pension fund grew at 5% pa and the income increased in line 
with RPI (Retail Price  Index). The fund would be depleted at age 99 if the full income was 
drawn or age 116 Mr Y took the reduced income. 
Ref: DRN21236402Using the mid growth rate, Mr Ys pension fund was projected to be £767,000. The projected 
income of £25,579  was 3.60% of the fund which was the annuity rate and which  TPWM said 
was a decent return. If Mr Y didnt take that income  the investment growth was expected to 
be more. So he could  take more income  or benefit from growth within  the fund. But that 
wasnt guaranteed,  which  was where  the risk was. 
Mr Ys fixed  expenditure  in retirement  would be £522 pm. When  Mr Y retired  his wife would 
continue to work for a year and her income would  cover that. Once  she retired  thered  be a 
year before Mr Ys state pension came  into payment  when hed have to use his assets to 
meet income requirements. A personal pension would suit Mr Ys needs  more as hed have 
flexible access for ad hoc discretionary withdrawals of how much  and when he wanted. 
The suitability report said Mr Ys PCLS would  be larger if he transferred. And hed be able to 
draw it in stages. There was a comparison of death  benefits from which  TPWM concluded 
the lump sum death benefits from a personal  pension much outweighed the OPS spouses  
pension. Plus a transfer offered the chance to leave  any residual sum to Mr Ys daughter  on 
the second death. 
TPWM recommended  that Mr Y transfer  his OPS benefits to a personal pension  based on 
his current circumstances,  the TVAS report and his requirements and personal planning 
objectives. Mr Y accepted  the recommendation and transferred  to a SIPP. 
Mr Y later complained to TPWM.  He also complained about  the SIPP provider. He said 
thered been a delay in transferring from the SIPP provider TPWM had recommended  to a 
new SIPP  operator. That complaint was also referred to this service  and has been dealt with 
under separate reference. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ys complaint about  TPWMs advice to transfer. He said:
Mr Y had a high level of almo st guaranteed benefits under the OPS.
The critical yield for age 60, no cash taken, was 25.6%. That showed the transfer  
value offered was poor in return for the benefits given up.
The critical yield for age 60, with cash taken was 16.01%.  That suggested the 
commutation factor wasnt generous.
Mr Y wanted to retire  at age 65. The critical yield for age 65, no cash taken, was
10.27%. It was 6.87% with £114,084  cash taken. That suggested the late retirement 
factors werent generous.  
TPWM recorded that Mr Y wanted  to take benefits at age 65. But both critical yields 
for age 65 were higher than the assumed growth  rate of 5.57% for a balanced 
investor.  
Mr Ys financial circumstances were  comfortable. But he could have taken benefits 
from his OPS at age 60 and made further contributions  to a personal pension.  Taking  
the transfer value meant giving up almost guaranteed benefits in return for benefits  
dependent on investment returns and long term interest rates.
A SIPP was a high maintenance  product. 
The advice involved a high,  unnecessary and unsuitable risk. 
Leaving benefits  in the OPS  would have left Mr Y with the option to transfer in the 
future if, for example, he developed serious  health  problems.  
TPWM didnt accept the adjudicators view and made the following points:
Ref: DRN21236403Mr Y had originally complained about  a loss of capital. TPWMs acknowledgement  letter 
outlined the complaint  that would be investigated but said some  aspects related to the 
service provided by another firm. Mr Y replied, saying the crux of his complaint  was that 
he shouldnt have  transferred his OPS  benefits to a personal pension. 
Mr Ys goal,  confirmed in the suitability report,  was:
I wish to review  my [OPS] as I do not want a fixed income in retirement. I wish to be 
able to take as much  and as little as I want and when I want. State Pension's  will cover 
our fixed  income from 67 therefore  flexible  income suits me more.  Ultimately, I wish to be 
able to leave any residual pension to [Mr Ys daughter.]"
The suitability report fully explained the advantages and disadvantages of Mr Ys OPS  
and the new personal  pension and why TPWM believed the transfer was suitable. 
The critical yield calculation is based  on the time remaining until the OPS  retirement age. 
The closer the client  is to the OPS retirement  age, the higher the critical yield,  as the 
calculation is done over a very short time period. Thats evidenced by the difference at 
age 60 and 65. The critical yield for someone, say, aged 40 would be very low. Although  
that wouldnt necessarily  mean a transfer  would be suitable.
The late retirement  factor was 5% compound pa. Contrary  to what  the adjudicator had 
said, thats relatively generous. The mid growth rate projections  used in the suitability 
report and supporting documentation  are based on 5% growth  minus  charges. The late 
retirement factor exceeds that. 
The regulator had said ("Advising on pension transfers - our expectations" dated 24 
January 2017) that it wasnt satisfactory to recommend transfers  solely on whether the 
critical yield was below  a certain rate. The expected return of the assets in which the 
fund will be invested  and the clients personal circumstances should also be considered. 
The suitability report included an alternative calculation  as to when the fund would be 
fully depleted.  On the assumptions set out, if he retired  at 60, Mr Ys fund would last until 
age 96 if full income was taken  or 112 for a reduced income plus a PCLS. At 65 the 
comparable ages  are 99 and 116. If Mr Y drew the same income via flexible access  
drawdown (which was very unlikely based  on the information hed given)  the fund would 
last beyond average life expectancy by some  margin. The transfer value  offered was 
based on income at age 60 (in May 2021) of £21,495.76  and equated to over 26.7 times 
the projected income which, given Mr Ys age, was generous. 
The critical yields at age 65 were  above  expected growth rates  but that factor  alone  
didnt justify remaining  in the OPS. The recommendation was supported  by the analysis 
of Mr Ys circumstances in the suitability report. 
In late 2017  the regulator had reviewed a number of TPWMs  pension transfer cases  as 
part of a wider  review of transfers out of a large OPS.  In some cases the critical  yield 
was higher than in Mr Ys case.  But the advice was deemed suitable in all cases. A high 
critical yield wasnt a pivotal factor.
Mr Y could  have taken benefits  from his OPS at age 60 and made further contributions  to 
a personal pension. But he intended to retire at 65. Without  any earned income, hed 
only have been able to contribute £3,600 pa gross. Hed have  benefitted from tax relief 
but hed have a taxable income for the rest of his life - 18.8 years for a 65 year old male.
By age 67 Mr Y would  have his state  pension  (expected to be £8,575 pa), rental income 
and potentially carers  allowance. Most,  if not all, of his personal allowance  would have 
been used. So most of his OPS pension would have  been taxed at basic  rate.
The suitability report records that Mr Y didnt need a fixed income. He understood the 
difference between  defined  benefit  and defined contribution  pension  schemes. He knew 
hed be giving up a guaranteed income. Hed been investing for over 20 years  and 
understood investment risk. He has a share  portfolio and owns a rental  property. Those 
investments require a higher level of maintenance than a personal pension, especially 
when the recommendation was for Mr Y to use a discretionary fund manager. The 
Ref: DRN21236404portfolio matched Mr Ys attitude to risk assessed  using  a recognised risk profile 
questionnaire. He was an experienced investor and the recommended  investment was 
suitable for him. Queries  raised by Mr Y after the advice had been  given  demonstrated 
hed read and understood the suitability report. 
The suitability report included an analysis of Mr Ys retirement income  and expenditure. 
The latter was £522 pm. Hed have an income  shortfall for a year between  his wife 
retiring and his state pension coming  into payment. But he had other assets and rental 
income to make  up. After that his income  needs  would be met by his state pension. 
Once his wifes state pension commenced,  thered be a significant disposable household 
income with no need for a fixed, taxable,  income.  
Leaving his benefits in the OPS and transferring later was considered, as was what 
would happen  if Mr Y died earlier than expected. That latter scenario is dealt  with in the 
suitability report. The death benefits  on transfer were better than the OPS for Mr Ys wife 
and particularly for his daughter  who wouldnt otherwise benefit from his largest asset. 
Mr Y wasnt working. Early retirement from the OPS due to ill health  or injury probably 
wouldnt have been available  to him. A lump  sum for serious ill health might have been  
but would  have increased Mr Ys estate and created a potential inheritance tax liability.  
Mr Y also commented on the adjudicators view. He said he thought hed been dealing with 
TPWM throughout. But it appeared that and the SIPP provider were two separate  entities. 
He was now unsure  who the adviser  was employed by. He also said:  
His OPS retirement age was 60. Transferring less than three years before then 
seems ill advised.
His OPS benefits were largely  guaranteed and secure. The transfer value wasnt  
generous. The risk that transferring to a personal  pension, given market volatilities 
(Brexit for example)  could produce  capital losses, wasnt fully explored. And his fund 
value fell by £30,000  over less than three months after the transfer.  
He did intend  to fully retire at 65 and he was considering a flexible rather  than a fixed  
income. But he could  have taken his benefits from his OPS  and reinvested the 
surplus and so protected his guaranteed  OPS benefits.  
He hadnt  been investing for over 20 years.  Hed only ever dabbled in stock  market 
investing and had no professional knowledge or training. He didnt understand  the 
complexities of the pensions market.  
Advice given about defined  benefits  transfers  should start from the assumption  that a 
transfer isnt suitable.  TPWM hadnt  considered the advice  from that basis. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what TPWM has said about  Mr Ys complaint. I suspect Mr Ys complaint was 
prompted by the fall in the value of his SIPP fund after the transfer had taken place. I think 
that made him think  about whether he should  have  been advised  to transfer. Its clear that 
Mr Y is now concerned he was given  unsuitable  advice to transfer.  That advice was given by 
TPWM and thats what Im considering here.  
As Mr Y has said, advice about transferring final salary OPS benefits  should start from the 
assumption that a transfer wont be suitable.  COBS  (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 
19.1.6G set out in the regulators handbook said (in June 2018  when  the advice was given):
Ref: DRN21236405(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail  client  who is, or is eligible 
to be, a member  of a pension scheme  with safeguarded benefits  and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
retail clients  best interests.
(4) To demonstrate (3), the factors a firm should  take into account include:
(a) the retail clients intentions for accessing  pension benefits;
(b) the retail clients attitude to, and understanding of the risk of giving up safeguarded  
benefits (or potential  safeguarded benefits ) for flexible benefits;
(c) the retail clients attitude to, and understanding of investment risk;
(d) the retail clients realistic retirement  income  needs including:
(i) how they can be achieved;
(ii) the role played by safeguarded benefits (or potential safeguarded  benefits) in achieving  
them; and
(iii) the consequent impact on those needs  of a transfer, conversion or opt-out, including any 
trade-offs; and
(e) alternative ways to achieve the retail clients objectives instead of the transfer, conversion 
or opt-out.
The high critical yields in Mr Ys case appear to confirm  that a transfer  wont  be in his best 
interests. The critical yield is the rate of investment return that would have  to be achieved  
after the transfer to ensure the personal  pension had the same  value at retirement as the 
benefits that would have  been provided  by the OPS.  Mr Y was looking to retire  at age 65. 
But he could  take his benefits  from his OPS at age 60. The critical yield for age 60, no cash 
taken, was 25.6%.  If Mr Y took a PCLS it was 16.01%. Those  high critical yields suggest the 
transfer value  offered  was poor value  in return for the OPS  benefits Mr Y would be giving up. 
At the time pension providers were required  to issue pension illustrations using assumed 
future growth rates of 2% (lower),  5% (intermediate) and 8% (higher). A critical yield of 
25.6% or 16.01%, just to match the benefits being given up, was very high. I note what  
TPWM has said about why the critical yields at age 60 are high  because of the relatively 
short investment time. That is the case. But I still think the critical yield is a reliable indicator 
of whether the transfer value offered is good value. 
The critical yields at age 65 are considerably  lower:  10.27%  or 6.87% (if Mr Y took a PCLS). 
But those  didnt compare  favourably against  an assumed growth rate of 5.57% for a 
balanced investor (or 6.52% for a capital growth  investor). Again the rates are in excess  of 
the regulators assumed  intermediate  future growth  rate. And the capital value  figures 
showed the transfer value  offered fell short of that required to provide benefits of equal value 
to those the OPS  would have provided.  
TPWM has pointed to the alternative calculation it carried out, showing how long it would 
take to exhaust  the fund, assuming an income  equivalent to that on offer from the OPS was 
taken, escalating in line with RPI. But thats still dependent  on fund growth of 5% minus  
charges and so that income isnt, unlike the OPS,  guaranteed.
I note what TPWM has said about  the regulator  not having found  any fault with TPWMs  
advice to transfer out of the OPS  mentioned,  despite the critical yields  being  high  some 
Ref: DRN21236406higher than in Mr Ys case. A transfer wont always be unsuitable even if the critical yields  
are high. But, as Ive said, the critical yield does give an indication  as to whether the transfer 
value on offer is generous or not. On that basis I dont entirely agree with the comment in the 
suitability report about the critical yield being redundant in Mr Ys case. I think that tends to 
underplay the importance of the critical yield. I agree  with the adjudicator that the critical 
yield was too high which would suggest transferring  wouldnt  be in Mr Ys best interests.   
But, that said, TPWM is right that the critical yield isnt the only criterion.  Ive considered 
TPWMs comments along with the factors set out in COBS 19.6.1G (4) which  the firm should 
take into account to demonstrate that the transfer  was in Mr Ys best interests. But I still dont 
think the advice  to transfer was justified. 
 
Mr Ys situation at the time was uncertain. Neither he nor his wife were  working. They  
anticipated theyd  both be earning  again  in six months time, with a joint income of between  
£65,000 and £75,000 pa. But that expectation may not have been realised. There doesnt 
seem to have been any detailed  discussion about what  would  happen in that scenario. Mr Y 
was just under three years away from being  able to take his benefits from his OPS, which 
would have provided a guaranteed  income  from age 60 and a PCLS if hed chosen  to take 
one. And, if he needed to access  his benefits  earlier, he may have  been  able to do that, 
albeit probably  subject to a reduction for early payment. I think TPWMs fact finding was 
insufficiently detailed  and there  was a failure  to explore with Mr Y what his other options 
were and, in particular, what might happen if his plans changed.
I note that Mr Ys anticipated income needs in retirement were  apparently  very modest  
some £522  pm. Id question whether that figure was entirely realistic. Again  I think TPWM 
should have discussed that further with Mr Y and ascertained why he apparently didnt need 
to make any provision for additional expenditure such as holidays, social activities etc. Or 
include any allowance for, say, home improvements  or car replacement. 
Given his apparently modest financial requirements  in retirement, Mr Y might  have had 
some capacity for loss. But, as Ive said, Im not convinced  his stated income  needs  were 
realistic. He did have  a rental property which could have provided  an additional income in 
retirement. But he had limited savings and, aside  from some shares, no other assets apart  
from his home. His OPS benefits  were valuable and his only pension  provision, apart  from 
his state entitlement. I dont think he could afford to take a significant  risk with his only 
pension provision.  
Mr Y doesnt  agree  with what TPWM says about  his understanding of investment risk or that 
he was an experienced investor. From what Ive seen I dont think Mr Y was particularly 
knowledgeable. He did have some shares,  held in two well known companies. And he 
managed his wifes SIPP although I dont know the type of funds held or the degree  of 
management involved. But I think Mr Y would have  understood that, if he transferred, hed 
be giving  up virtually guaranteed benefits, including a fixed  (escalating) income for benefits 
that depended on investment returns.
TPWM assessed Mr Ys attitude to risk as balanced.  But Mr Y suggested  he was prepared  to 
take a higher degree of risk. TPWM seems to have accepted  that and recommended an 
investment platform and a growth  portfolio. Again I dont  see there was any discussion with 
Mr Y as to what taking a higher risk approach  might  mean and if he could tolerate the sort of 
losses or fluctuations  in fund value that might result. 
Ref: DRN21236407And Mr Ys pension fund did fall in value, by some  £30,000 after the transfer.  The transfer 
value (including  the AVC fund) was £626,772.52.  The fluctuation  was, in capital terms 
significant, but it was less than 5% which is within the range a growth (or even a balanced) 
investor might be prepared to accept.  But Mr Y was uncomfortable. That tends to suggest  
the assessment  of his attitude to risk and, in particular, the shift from a balanced  to a capital 
growth investor, may not have been  properly examined with Mr Y. 
There were benefits in transferring. Mr Y accepts  he was considering a flexible, rather than a 
fixed income, as recorded in the suitability report.  That option would have been attractive. 
And he could have taken his PCLS  in stages from his personal  pension. I also note his wish 
to benefit his daughter. The death  benefits,  had Mr Y died prematurely, would have been 
better with a personal  pension. But the main  purpose of a pension is to provide  an income in 
retirement. Other considerations, such as inheritance, are secondary to that particularly 
where, as here, Mr Y and his wife were in good health and so it was expected that Mr Ys 
pension fund would need to support them for a long time.
I cant see that Mr Y had any pressing need  to transfer when he did. He didnt require  access 
to a PCLS. He could  have  taken a view about  transferring  later and when  his situation was 
less uncertain.  There was a risk that the transfer value offered later could be lower (although 
it might  have been higher). The OPS might  have failed in the interim  - although in my view 
that wasnt likely (it was 89% funded) and, in any event, the Pension Protection  Fund  was 
available. If Mr Y died in the interim  then the only benefit that would be payable from the 
OPS would have  been a widows  pension.  But, despite those  considerations, I dont think 
TPWM has demonstrated the transfer  was in Mr Ys best interests.  In my view the advice 
was unsuitable.   
fair redress
I agree  with the redress suggested by the adjudicator which Ive repeated here.  TPWM 
should put Mr Y, as far as possible, in the position  hed be in now,  but for the unsuitable 
advice.
TPWM should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. This calculation 
should use the most recent financial assumptions  published.
Mr Y subsequently transferred to another SIPP provider. TPWM may use the value of that 
SIPP or the transfer value the original  SIPP would have had if it had not been further 
transferred.
TPWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ys 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the OPS on Mr Ys SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, TPWM should, if possible, pay the
compensation into Mr Ys pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance, including the annual  allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it
Ref: DRN21236408should be paid directly to Mr Y as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% from the loss adequately reflects  this.
TPWM should also refund to Mr Y the fee he paid for the advice with simple interest at 8% 
pa from the date Mr Y paid it until the date of settlement.  You should also offer to pay Mr Y 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by advice to give up final salary benefits.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. True Potential Wealth Management LLP must redress Mr Y as Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2123640