K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the way IG Markets Limited has executed  some  of his trades, and its 
decision to close his account. 
background
In November 2018 Mr A placed a number of stop orders  to open new trades.  On each 
occasion, rather than the trade opening at the price he had set, it would open at a worse 
price. So Mr A complained to IG. He said he felt it was stealing his money. There  was some 
correspondence around why Mr As trades  were opening at different levels, and eventually  
IG decided to close Mr As account  on the basis that it no longer considered it was 
appropriate for him given his lack of understanding of CFD trading and the risks involved.  
Mr A complained to this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint, but 
didnt consider it should be upheld.  In short, she said:
Slippage and gapping were common risks in CFD trading. She had seen the pricing 
evidence provided by IG and was satisfied  that on each occasion  that Mr A set a stop 
to open a particular trade, and it opened  at a different price, he was simply 
experiencing a gap in the price. There was no evidence  that IG was in fact stealing  
Mr As money. 
She was satisfied that IGs terms and conditions and risk disclosure notices  set out 
these risks clearly. 
She considered  the answers Mr A gave initially and thought it wasnt unreasonable 
based on those  answers for IG to have concluded the account  was appropriate for Mr 
A. He appeared to have sufficient  knowledge  and experience to understand the risks 
of CFD trading. But when  he repeatedly  raised  the same  complaint despite several 
explanations by IG about how gapping and slippage works, she considered it was 
also reasonable for IG to reassess  the appropriateness of the account. At that point, 
given the circumstances, the investigator  agreed  that IG hadnt  acted unreasonably 
in determining the account was no longer  appropriate for Mr A. 
She considered  the way IG had closed  Mr As account, and didnt think it had treated 
him unfairly. He didnt  have any open positions, and IG refunded him the remaining  
cash in his account within a reasonable timeframe. 
IG agreed with the investigator, but Mr A did not. He said:
He had three years trading experience so it wasnt right to say he had no knowledge 
of CFD trading. 
He said he had traded  with a number of different forex companies and had never 
seen a stop loss exceeded. This was completely  IGs fault and thats how they were  
making money. 
They held on to his money for too long,  and used it to make  themselves money.  
They kept his money for more than six weeks, despite him constantly emailing and 
chasing. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN22905452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand Mr A feels very strongly about  his complaint. But Im afraid I dont have much to 
add to what the investigator  has already  told him. 
Ive looked at the three trades Mr A has complained about, and where he considers  IG has 
treated him unfairly. Ive also carefully  considered the charts  which IG provided to him in its 
response, as well as any publicly  available  information about  the markets  Mr A was trading 
on. Its worth setting out that Mr A was using stop orders as opposed to limit orders.  In other 
words, he wasnt  specifying the best price he was willing to enter the market on, above 
which he didnt want to open his trade. He was setting a market  entry  order  which  would 
trigger as soon the specified price  was reached. These types  of orders  carry a risk that the 
order will trigger beyond  the specified  price.  
In the first example, Mr A placed an order to buy GBP/USD at around 8.20pm on Sunday  
4 November 2018 for 1.2967. At 9pm, when the market opened, GBP/USD started trading at 
1.30432. This triggered his stop-entry order, and meant that he opened his position at 
1.30432. Ive looked at the charts provided  by IG in their response  to Mr As complaint, and 
Im satisfied they show that Mr As trades simply opened at the next available price.  Im 
satisfied these prices were broadly reflective of what was being  traded in the underlying 
market  so Im satisfied  Mr As order was executed at a fair price. 
The same happened  when Mr A placed an order to buy GBP/JPY  here too Mr As stop-
entry order  specified  a price of 146.806 but when the market opened, his order was 
executed at 147.651. Mr A himself immediately closed that trade when he saw it opened at a 
different price than the one he wanted,  and this caused him a small loss. 
And a similar scenario occurred on a crude  oil CFD which Mr A opened on 
11 November 2018. 
In each of these examples Im satisfied Mr As stop-entry orders  were  triggered at the next 
available price once  the market opened.  And there  was nothing  wrong  with the prices IG 
offered. Unfortunately  for Mr A, this meant a worse price than the one he set before the 
market opened.  But this was due to the fact that he placed these orders  when the market  
was closed. I dont  think its reasonable to expect the prices to be the same when the market 
was opened because those prices werent  actually at trading at that time. 
Generally speaking, the risk of a stop order not executing at the price  specified is very 
common, and something all traders with a minimum of experience ought to be aware of 
before trading CFDs. While this risk tends  to materialise on stop-loss orders (in other words 
orders designed to close an existing trade  at a specified price),  its obvious that the same  
risk applies  to stop-entry orders. Given what Ive said above, Im satisfied  IG has done 
nothing wrong  in relation to these trades.  
In terms of closing Mr As account,  I can appreciate  how frustrating this was for him. And in 
my experience this is an unusual step for a provider to take. IG has explained that it took this 
step because  Mr As persistent complaints about  stops triggering at different prices indicated 
Ref: DRN22905453that he didnt understand  how gapping  or slippage could affect his trades  despite being  
given explanations about this. It therefore considered that without understanding  these two 
significant risk factors,  it no longer considered  a CFD trading account appropriate for him. 
And so it took the decision to close his account in his best interests.  
IGs terms allow it to terminate  or close an account, generally by giving a certain amount of 
notice. And its not my role to tell IG who it should do business  with. 
In Mr As case, Im satisfied the reason IG has given for deciding to terminate the agreement  
with him is reasonable and in line with what it was required  to do under COBS that is, in 
circumstances where  it didnt consider an account  appropriate for one of its customers.  Most 
importantly, however, I note that Mr A didnt have  any open trades at the time. So IG didnt 
forcibly close any trades or crystallise any losses. And Im therefore satisfied that Mr A hasnt 
suffered a financial loss as a result of IGs decision to close  the account. 
Mr A is unhappy about the length of time IG kept the remaining balance of his account 
before refunding it. IG has explained that it does this in circumstances where an account  has 
been suspended, and a final response  issued. This allows it to ensure that the payment is 
sent back to an active  card,  or to consider  alternatives if thats no longer possible.  
Mr A didnt provide  a response to IG, and it therefore proceeded to refund the available  
balance in the account of around £320  to the payment method he had previously used. 
Although this was just over three weeks  after the final response was issued, I dont  consider  
that an unreasonably long delay  given the circumstances and IGs explanation. 
I understand Mr A feels very strongly that he has been cheated by IG, but Im afraid  Im not 
persuaded he has. I dont think IG has treated him unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. I appreciate Mr A will be 
disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision,  however, represents the last stage of this 
services dispute resolution procedure. Mr A doesnt  have to accept  my decision,  and if he 
doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue legal action  against IG Markets Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2290545