K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a life assurance  policy that was taken out by his late grandfather, 
Mr B, with Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (the business).  
background
The policy was started in August 1974, with a £195 sum assured and 16 year term or until 
the death of Mr M, whichever was sooner. 
The business said having conducted  an extensive search of its records, it could not see that 
there had been  a policy unfortunately  it doesnt know  what happened to it. But as a gesture 
of good will, it has offered  £250, in an effort to resolve this complaint.
Mr M disagreed with the business conclusion and referred the complaint to our service. He 
maintains that hes received no payment from the policy, and that its unacceptable the 
business has no record of what happened. He also believes the sum assured to be much 
higher. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short she said:
It has been 44 years since the policy was commenced, and 30 years  from where  the 
policy was due to mature. Regulated  businesses arent generally required to retain 
documents for anywhere near this amount of time.   And it wouldnt be fair to expect 
the business to know  what happened  to the investment past 1990. 
The business explained that the sum assured was the minimum it would pay on a 
claim/surrender and that the policy was designed to grow  by the addition of an 
annual bonus  and a terminal bonus.  But in this case there  is simply no evidence that 
the policy had a value or that it was or would have been  entitled to bonuses.  
On a balance  of probabilities, shes unable to say that the policy had a value or that it 
wasnt paid our when  it should have been. Its likely the policy  lapsed,  matured or 
was surrendered. 
All things considered  the gesture of good will payment was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he maintained  his position and felt 
that the investigator should do more to question the business more than to question  his 
submissions. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary she said:
Financial institutions  werent required to retain  documentation indefinitely.  
The documentation  provided only proves  that the policy  was set up. Theres  no 
evidence to show what happened to it. 
As the policy wasnt on the new record, its likely  it lapsed  without value  or was 
surrendered prior to 1978.  
Shes sorry Mr B suffered from dementia later on in his life, and doesnt doubt his 
plans to gift the policy  to Mr M when he was alive. But this doesnt prove the policy  
carried a value. 
Ref: DRN26613162As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say the business  has acted 
unreasonably in not being able to tell Mr M whats happened to Mr Bs policy. 
Whilst I appreciate why Mr M might  feel that the business is responsible for the loss of the 
money, I don't have  sufficient evidence, on balance to satisfy  me that it is. 
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Ms strength of 
feeling about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr M and the business,  and reach what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Businesses arent generally required to keep records indefinitely. Theyre  not generally 
required to retain documentation  beyond six years  and if the policy  has been surrendered its 
unlikely to have  any information. In the circumstances I cant blame the business for not 
having more information or not being able to provide a more definitive answer to whats  
happened to the money  in question. In the circumstances, and on balance  Im satisfied it has 
conducted a reasonable  search. 
The documentation  suggests that its likely that the policy existed in 1974,  however this 
evidence doesnt  prove  on a balance of probabilities  that the money is still available. 
Although theres  no evidence that the money  was taken out of the policy,  theres no 
evidence that it wasnt. Its possible  although Im not suggesting this is what has happened 
 that Mr B may have accessed the money  and have forgotten about it or even changed his 
mind about  it. 
Mr M may feel that this service has construed a lack of evidence in favour of the business. 
But it simply comes  down  to the fact that I have insufficient evidence to reasonably  conclude,  
on this occasion,  the business is at fault. In other  words, I cant blame the business for 
something, if I dont  have  the evidence to support  this. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  despite what  Mr M says, Im unable 
to safely conclude that the money  is still available with the business. Ive insufficient 
evidence to dissuade  me that the money  may not have been  taken out before Mr Ms death. 
Ref: DRN26613163I appreciate Mr M will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited  has offered to pay Mr M £250 as a good will 
gesture. I think it should do so unless it has already paid this amount.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2661316