K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the service she received from Sainsburys Bank  Plc (Sainsburys) . 
Having notified  Sainsburys of her new address, Sainsburys wrote to her at her old address 
causing her distress and inconvenience.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mrs K and Sainsburys so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In August  2018  Mrs K told Sainsburys of her new address.  Sainsburys accept that. They 
also accept that in January 2019 they wrote to Mrs K at her old address. When Mrs K raised  
a complaint Sainsburys apologised and accepted that they had fallen into error. In 
recognition of that error they offered to pay Mrs K £200 in compensation, which she 
declined.
As Mrs K was unhappy  with Sainsburys response she brought  her complaint to this service 
and an adjudicator looked into the complaint and found that there had been failings in the 
level of service provided by Sainsburys but found that the level of compensation offered to 
Mrs K was fair and reasonable. As Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. I do not perform  the role of the industry 
regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, 
or direct that they change their processes.  That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. Equally we are not a court service.  
Our adjudicator has explained to Mrs K that if she is further concerned about the security of 
her data, then this is a matter which would be better  placed before the Information 
Commissioners Office.
What I need to decide is whether Sainsburys acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mrs K. I take into account both Sainsburys view and that of Mrs K. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address  every single point raised.  So, my aim is to reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Sainsburys accept that a human error  was made  resulting  in a letter being sent to the wrong 
address. They have apologised for that and provided feedback to their employee who 
caused the error. That is sensible and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN21701542Sainsburys have also now updated their system  with the correct  address for Mrs K. Whilst 
any error is to be regretted it is unfortunately a sad fact that human errors will occur in 
almost every  organisation.  Whilst that does not relieve or excuse Sainsburys of their 
responsibilities towards  their customers,  I do have to accept that in reality, and from time to 
time, such errors will occur.  But I am satisfied from Sainsburys response that they take their 
responsibilities seriously  and have addressed this specific  failing appropriately.
Sainsburys have also accepted that they should offer compensation to Mrs K. So, the sole 
issue is what the appropriate level of compensation ought to be. I have thought  carefully 
about the £200 offered  to Mrs K and I do think that this is reasonable. It is in line with the 
awards this service would  make  for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this, 
and I think it is fair and enough to put matters  right.
I know Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision but I think  Sainsburys have made a fair 
offer of compensation for an accepted failure of service.
my final decision
Sainsburys has already  made an offer to pay £200  to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc should  pay £200 by Mrs K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2170154