K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has financed through an agreement  with Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd (Blue) has not been of satisfactory  quality  and that the car wasnt supplied  with a valid 
manufacturers warranty but should have  been.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in November 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Blue. The car was two years  old when supplied and had 
completed about 6,000 miles.
In July 2018 Mr S contacted Blue. He said his car had broken  down  with an engine  fault and 
hed been told the wrong engine oil had been used  in the two services  that were  completed 
prior to him taking receipt of it. The dealership  had therefore refused to carry out repairs  
under warranty as they said the use of the wrong  oil voided it. 
Blue said they were  only responsible for faults  that were present on the vehicle at the point 
of supply. They said it was for Mr S to prove the faults he was now complaining  of were 
present at that point and as he was unwilling  to pay to transport the car to the dealership to 
have it inspected they said theyd couldnt  help any further.
The car stood idle until September 2018  when Mr S had it fixed  at his own cost. The garage 
replaced the plugs  and fitted a new ignition coil. The total bill was £167 and the car is now 
reported to be running smoothly. 
As Blue had refused  to help any more Mr S referred  his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  new plugs and a new ignition coil should be required on a car of this 
age and mileage  so she thought Blue should refund the repair  costs  Mr S had incurred.  
She went on to consider  the warranty issue. She noted that the dealership Mr S had visited  
had said the wrong  oil was used and this voided the warranty and she also considered the 
comments Blue provided from another of the manufacturers dealerships who said the oil 
used was correct  and the same as they used in their services.  On balance she was 
persuaded that the wrong oil was used and Mr Ss warranty would have been voided. So she 
thought about the impact that would have had on him. She explained that, if a valid warranty 
had been supplied on the car, it would have expired in September  2018. So she thought that 
to remedy the situation  Blue should refund any repair bills Mr S had to pay up until this point. 
She noted that Mr S had to get the wheels re-aligned  in February 2018 and she thought Blue 
should therefore refund the £29.99 this work cost. And also refund the £120 Mr S had outlaid 
to have the vehicle recovered to a repairing garage and back  to his home 
She recognised that Mr S had been without the use of his vehicle from July 2018 to 
September 2018 but noted  that hed still been  paying instalments towards his finance 
agreement. So she thought Blue should  refund instalments  paid in these months.  She went 
on to consider the inconvenience that Mr S had experienced  as a result of these issues  and 
she thought, in the circumstances, it would be fair to ask Blue to pay him £150 
compensation.
But Blue disagreed  and the complaint was therefore referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN27108162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Blue are responsible 
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
But Blues responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Here Blue have explained that as Mr S had the car for more than six months when  it broke 
down it was for him to demonstrate the faults were present from the beginning.
I can see that there was some dispute  about  the costs of arranging  an inspection by the 
dealership but Mr S has subsequently had the vehicle fixed and as its now working  
smoothly. I think  its therefore fair to suggest  the plugs and the ignition coil were at fault. 
Its difficult to establish  if the ignition coil and plugs were failing at the point of supply but 
when we consider  whether a vehicle  is of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation  also 
tells us to consider whether the car has proven  to be durable. This car only had 6,000 miles 
on the clock when it was supplied to Mr S and I dont think  a reasonable person would 
expect a coil to fail on an almost new car after only seven months so I think its fair to say the 
car wasnt durable. In those circumstances I think it would be fair and reasonable to tell Blue 
to pay the repair costs.
the warranty
Theres a dispute  here as to whether the wrong oil was used in the previous services. If the 
wrong oil was used  and this led to the warranty being invalidated it would  seem  unfair to ask 
Mr S to pay for repairs  that should  be covered by it.
Ive seen conflicting comments from two of the manufacturers dealerships  about  whether 
the wrong oil was used.
What is clear is that Mr S visited an approved dealership  and was told his warranty  was void.  
And thats why he had to pay for the repairs himself and raise a complaint  with Blue.
So I think it would be fair for them to pay for repairs that would have  been  covered by the 
warranty if it had been valid. The additional  repair work Mr S had completed was for the 
Ref: DRN27108163wheel alignment.  So Im asking Blue to refund this as well as the £167 for the work 
completed in September.
Its clear that Mr S has been inconvenienced  by this matter. It was his choice to buy another  
car to get him to work in July 2018 and it wouldnt be fair to hold Blue in any way responsible 
for that cost. But its clear  Mr S has been  inconvenienced by this matter  and I think, in the 
circumstances, Blue should pay him £150 to compensate him for this.
Hes also been unable  to use his car between  July and September  2018. So I think  Blue 
should refund the instalments hes paid towards  his finance agreement for this period.
And finally, I note he had to pay £120  to have his car recovered.  These  are expenses that I 
think are associated with the breakdown and as Im holding Blue responsible for the costs of 
that breakdown  I would also think  it fair to ask them to refund the recovery  cost.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
refund  repair  bills of £29.99  and £167 and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
refund  the £120 recovery costs and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
refund  monthly  finance instalments from July 2018 to September 2018 in respect of 
loss of use
pay Mr S £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2710816