K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank  of Scotland trading at the time of sale as 
Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr M bought  a regular  premium MPPI  policy in September 2001. The policy covered Mr M 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr M says the MPPI policy  was mis-sold.  He says he was unaware  of PPI on his agreement  
and it wasnt offered to him as a choice.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. As he doesnt  agree with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide much of the sales documentation that 
was used at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant  be 
sure how the policy was presented by Bank of Scotland to Mr M. Ive not been able to 
see most of the original  sales  documentation.  It did provide a copy of an application 
form but Mr M has said the address given on this form is incorrect and does not 
relate to the mortgage he took out with Bank of Scotland at that time.

So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mr M was given a choice or not as to 
whether he should have  the MPPI policy (or whether it was added to his mortgage 
without his knowledge) and the documentation provided has not helped  me to 
understand what happened either.
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Bank  of Scotland  sold these  
policies around  this time.  Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection from 
Mr M of how the policy was sold at the time of sale. This is understandable 
considering the many  years that have passed. So taking these points into 
consideration, I cannot fairly  conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold in the 
way Mr M says it was (that it was added without his permission) I just havent seen 
enough to persuade  me that this was the case. 
Moving on, Bank of Scotland says it gave  advice to Mr M so it needed to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for his needs.  After reviewing the very limited information, it 
doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mr M based  on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time.  
Ref: DRN27362732I say this because  Mr M says he is not sure what sick pay he would have received at 
the time so I think the policy would have come  in useful in a time of need. It would 
have also paid in addition to any other provisions he may have had at the time. I 
think, on balance,  Mr M had a need  for this cover  for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other reason such as a significant  
or limiting term from the policy  documents  provided  that would make the policy 
unsuitable for her as the policy holder either.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
policy that Mr M took out but even though it has provided information detailing  the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Mr M 
in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even  if they were  disclosed 
clearly I dont think Mr M would have done anything  different  and decided against 
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr M as the policy holder wouldve been  affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2736273