K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI). He isnt happy that it charged him 
a cancellation  fee when  he cancelled  his home  insurance policy.
background
UKI wrote to Mr S in August 2018  to explain  that his policy  would auto renew in September  
2018. After his policy renewed in October 2018 Mr S cancelled his policy  as he was moving 
address. But he isnt happy that it charged  him a cancellation fee. He thought as he was a 
loyal customer that it would waive the admin  charge. And when he called to complain about 
this he wasnt happy that it closed his complaint  down  immediately. So he complained  to UKI 
and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He explained that 
UKI had followed its cancellation procedure, that allowed it to charge  a cancellation fee, and 
that it didnt act unreasonably in closing his complaint. This was because  there wasnt 
anything else it could  do in relation  to Mr Ss complaint.
As Mr S didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, although I can understand Mr Ss frustration, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand why Mr S feels that UKI shouldnt charge him a cancellation fee. He has 
placed his business with them for a number of years and feels that his loyalty  should be 
worth more, and I can understand this. 
But UKIs policy terms and conditions make it clear  that it will charge an admin fee if the 
policy is cancelled outside the 14 day cooling off period,  which it was. So although I can 
understand Mr Ss position I dont think UKI has done anything  wrong in charging a small 
cancellation fee as most  insurers do.
In relation to Mr Ss call to complain I can understand why he is annoyed that he was told 
that his complaint would  be closed down straightaway. Ive listened to the call and although  
the handler was friendly and professional I can understand Mr Ss frustration at being told 
this. But his complaint was registered and his concerns  fed back so I think the call handler  
was looking to close the complaint as hed answered Mr Ss complaint.
So although  I can understand Mr Ss frustration here I dont think that UKI has done anything  
wrong.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN28700872Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2870087