K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account,  called  a Premier account, in 2007.  
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several potential benefits  in 
return. They think that Lloyds should  refund  them all the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think 
that Lloyds had mis-sold  the Premier account to them. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their case. So it has come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds have told us or sent us about  the 
case and Ive decided  not to uphold  it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B have  banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent some 
information from its records which it says shows that Mr B first opened  the account, in his 
sole name, as a fee-free  account during 1991  and then: 
in 2001, he changed to a Gold account,  for which he paid a fee
in 2002, he changed back to a fee-free account
in early 2007, he converted the account into joint names with Mrs B, and they 
changed to a Platinum account,  for which they paid a fee
later in 2007, Mr and Mrs B switched  to the Premier  account,  for which  they paid a 
higher fee than for the Platinum account 
in 2018, they switched  to a fee-free account.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  records about this are reliable, and Mr and Mrs B seem to have  
accepted this account history as accurate, so I have taken it be correct. 
Mr and Mrs B originally  complained that Lloyds had mis-sold  the Gold  and Platinum 
accounts to them, as well as the Premier account. However, they have accepted  that they 
made their complaint  about  the Gold account after the time limits which normally apply to us 
had expired, and Lloyds  would not give us its consent to look into the case;  and Lloyds has 
already upheld their complaint about the Platinum account and paid them  appropriate 
compensation. So in this decision, I have only considered the way Lloyds sold the Premier 
account to Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that Lloyds  sold the Premier account to them  during a phone call 
and recommended that they should buy it. Lloyds has accepted this, and I have considered 
the complaint  as a recommended sale. This meant that Lloyds had to check that the 
Ref: DRN24879092account was appropriate for Mr and Mrs Bs circumstance and tell them about its costs and 
benefits clearly and fairly, so they could  decided if they wanted it. 
When Lloyds sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs B, its potential benefits included  travel 
insurance, home emergency insurance,  mobile phone  insurance, cheaper overdrafts and 
loans than Lloyds  offered  to customers with fee-free accounts, and car breakdown cover.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B travelled abroad  quite often, drove a car, needed a loan or 
overdraft and had a home they wanted  to protect. So it seems to me that it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to recommend the Premier account  to them as it could meet  some  of their 
potential needs.  
Both Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds have  told us that after buying the account, they made claims  
on the home emergency and mobile phone  insurance and used the car breakdown cover.  I 
also understand that they overdrew their account  from time-to-time.  So Im satisfied that 
Lloyds told them about these benefits  when it sold them  the account. I also think its 
extremely likely Lloyds told them how much the account would cost,  as the monthly fees 
would appear  on their bank statements and I dont  think Lloyds tried to hide them  during the 
phone discussion.  
Mr and Mrs B have  also told us that Lloyds  forced the Premier account  onto them,  and 
have said that it told them it was doing  away with fee-free accounts. However, I find this 
unlikely. Lloyds, along with many other UK banks, have continued to provide fee-fee 
accounts for customers who want them, and I havent seen anything to make  me think  that 
Lloyds denied Mr and Mrs B a choice to have one if they wanted. I accept that Lloyds may 
have encouraged Mr and Mrs B to buy the Premier account, but this isnt the same as 
forcing them. 
In 2010, Lloyds introduced new charges for customers  with Premier accounts who overdrew 
their accounts by more  than an agreed amount. I understand that Mr and Mrs B had to pay 
some of these charges,  which  they think was unfair. However, providing banks tell their 
customers what is happening,  they are allowed to change the terms and conditions of their 
accounts from time-to-time. I think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs B about the 
new charges in advance, and I dont think it behaved unreasonably towards  them.
.
Mr and Mrs B have  also told us that at times  they were out of the UK for periods of up to 
three months. They think that some of the insurance policies had restrictions which may 
have made  it difficult for them to claim while they were away.  Theyve complained that 
Lloyds didnt tell them about these restrictions. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for some of the policies, and I accept that some of 
them had the type of restrictions which Mr and Mrs B have described. There  is no call 
recording of Lloyds discussion  with Mr and Mrs B, so I dont know what it did or didnt say to 
them about  these  restrictions. But it seems to me that there were substantial  periods when 
Mr and Mrs B were  able to use the benefits  of the account and claim on the insurance 
policies, so I doubt that they would have changed  their minds about buying  the account  even 
if Lloyds had told them about these restrictions. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also complained that after they bought the account, Lloyds never 
reviewed their situation to see if they still needed it. 
Ref: DRN24879093As I mentioned previously, Lloyds had to tell Mr and Mrs B about changes to the account  
and in recent years it also had to send them reminders about the insurance policies, so they 
could check for themselves if they still wanted  the cover the policies offered. But it didnt 
have to review their needs personally.  Im satisfied that Lloyds probably met its obligations to 
keep Mr and Mrs B informed, and up-to-date with their insurance  cover,  so I dont think it 
treated them  unfairly, even though  I accept  it didnt undertake a review for them. 
So in summary,  after so many years  have passed, I cant  tell if Lloyds got everything  right in 
the way it sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs B. But Im satisfied that it told them  about  
the fees they would  have to pay and about benefits  they could get in return. I think it 
recommended the account to them on reasonable grounds and gave them a fair choice.
I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about  
Lloyds Bank  PLC. I am not going  to tell it to give them  any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2487909