K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint is about the sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI) with a 
loan and also the amount paid to settle the loan early, both taken out through NRAM Limited 
(NRAM). Mrs M and Mr M also raised  an issue about compensation paid for some PPI that 
was taken out by Mr M with some earlier loans.
background
Mrs M and Mr M complained in 2013 about  mis-sold PPI with some loans. NRAM agreed  
this PPI was mis-sold and paid compensation to Mr M in March  2014. 
In 2018 Mrs M and Mr M complained about  mis-sold  PPI with a loan taken out only by Mrs M 
(ending 0897). They also said they thought  the amount paid to settle this loan early  was 
wrong. And they raised  an issue about the compensation paid in 2014 to Mr M.
NRAM said no PPI has been sold to Mrs M with her loan and the settlement amount was 
correct. It also said Mrs Ms loan was unrelated to those taken out earlier  by Mr M and did 
not form part of the same chain. It said no compensation was due to Mrs M; and Mr Ms 
compensation had already been paid. NRAM also said the early settlement amount Mrs M 
had paid for her loan was correct.
Mrs M and Mr M were not happy with the response  from NRAM and brought  their complaint 
to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. I explained there  why I 
had agreed with out adjudicator that NRAM had done nothing wrong. But I had reached my 
findings for slightly different reasons to the adjudicator, so wanted to give the chance to both 
parties to submit any further  evidence of comments. 
NRAM has responded saying it has nothing further to add. 
Mrs M and Mr M have  responded  in some detail  setting out their reasons for disagreeing 
with NRAMs original  decision  and my findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I indicted  that Mrs M and Mr M had three main issues.  These  
were:-
That Mrs Ms loan (8097) refinanced Mr Ms loan (8028).
That as a result of this refinancing some PPI costs were included  in Mrs Ms loan 
although NRAM has said this loan had no PPI sold with it. 
That NRAM didnt correctly work out correctly  the amount Mrs M had to pay when 
she settled her loan early in 2013.
I addressed these in some detail in three sections which dealt  with: Mr Ms loan ending  8028 
and; if Mrs Ms loan ending 8097 directly  refinanced  Mr Ms loan 8028 and if any PPI was 
carried into Mrs Ms loan; and if the early settlement amount  Mrs M paid was correct.  I shall 
use the same approach  in this decision.
Ref: DRN24474412Mr Ms loan 8028
Mrs M and Mr M indicated  in their response to my provisional decision that their complaint is 
about all the loans they both ever had with NRAM,  not just the two I had referred to, that is 
Mr Ms last loan ending  8028  and Mrs Ms loan 8097. However as I said in my  provisional 
decision,  I cannot look at the loans Mr M was paid compensation  for in 2014,  as any 
complaint about  the compensation paid then was not brought to this service in time.
Mr M had already had a response from this service in July 2016  regarding his loan 8028,  
which formed part of a chain of loans. We had told him in 2016  that we could not look at any 
complaints about  the offer of compensation made to settle his complaint about the mis-sold 
PPI with these loans. This was because he hadnt brought his complaint to this service within 
six months of the final response letter offering the compensation.
I made  an observation,  but no findings,  about  the compensation  offered for loan 8028  
referring to a figure of £1,239.49 which I said was paid on settlement  of the loan for PPI and 
it was refunded as part of the compensation. So this wasnt  carried forward  into Mrs Ms 
loan.
Mr M has in response to my provisional decision indicated this figure does not appear in the 
calculation for his PPI redress. He provided  a copy of Appendix 1 for a loan calculation 
which was part of his PPI offer. However this was not for loan ending  8028. The calculation 
for loan 8028  was in Appendix 2 and the figure  I referred to appears  at line A5. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  this reference to the amount paid for any PPI in the 
settlement amount was merely an observation  that I hoped may provide some  clarification 
for Mr M that all the PPI included with his loan was addressed in the calculations for the 
redress. And it also indicated no PPI costs remained to be refunded going forward  as part of 
any other loan.
However I cannot, and have not, looked  at those calculations in detail as I am not making 
any findings on any issues  about  the compensation Mr M was paid in 2014.
did Mrs Ms loan refinance an earlier loan?
In my provisional decision I said the only reason  I was making  reference  to loan 8028 was 
because Mrs M and Mr M had argued  that it was  inter-related with loan 8097 taken out by 
Mrs M.
Mrs M and Mr M have  said that loan 8097 taken out by Mrs M formed part of a chain with 
Mr Ms loan 8028. If this had been the case,  and if any PPI had been financed  by Mrs Ms 
loan, then it was possible there may have been a small  element of PPI in Mrs Ms loan 
carried over from Mr Ms earlier loans.  
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  Mrs M took this loan out only in her name and 
the funds she borrowed were paid into her nominated bank account by BACS transfer. What 
she did with those funds  was up to her. 
The application form for Mrs Ms loan did not indicate Mrs M was borrowing her loan money 
to pay off any existing  loan or debt with NRAM. How Mrs M used  her loan was her choice. 
And I cannot see anything  to show Mrs Ms loan was part of a chain with any earlier  loans. 
Ref: DRN24474413Mr M settled  his loan 8028 two weeks after Mrs M had received her loan funds. NRAM did 
not directly settle  Mr Ms loan with the funds  from Mrs Ms loan.  It paid these funds to her 
into the bank account Mrs M had requested.  So there was no direct  refinancing  by NRAM of 
Mr Ms loan with Mrs Ms loan. 
Mr M received the full compensation  for his PPI, which should have included  everything he 
paid, and there is nothing to show  Mrs Ms loan contained any amount of PPI costs.
settlement figure on Mrs Ms loan
I gave an explanation in this section  of how NRAM had calculated the early settlement  figure  
for Mrs Ms loan.   
I said in my provisional decision that the credit agreement showed there was no PPI sold to 
Mrs M at the time she took out her loan. So there was no PPI sold with this loan. 
I apologise for an error in one sentence in this section of my provisional  decision where  I 
indicated the amount  of early settlement for the loan would include any amount for PPI. This 
was incorrect and the sentence explaining the calculations provided by NRAM should have 
said This was the total amount still needed to pay back  everything she had borrowed.  It 
included what was to be paid for what she had borrowed plus the interest that remained to 
be paid to the end of the original term of the loan.
I should have  made  no reference to PPI being  part of the figures as there clearly was no PPI 
taken out with Mrs Ms loan and I apologise for any confusion my error may have caused.
I explained that the repayments schedule sent to Mrs M showed  fix monthly  repayments,  
split into equal  amounts,  being paid to reduce both the capital and the interest by the fixed 
amount. However  this was not what actually  happens when a loan is repaid.
The monthly amount  charged for the interest gradually decreases  over time as the capital is 
slowly repaid. So through the life of the loan more  interest is paid in the early  years and 
more capital in the later years.
I assume Mrs M and Mr M now understand how the settlement figure was reached  as they 
have raised no additional  points about this in their response to my provisional decision.
summary
I cannot look at any of the loans Mr M took out as the compensation offered was paid in 
2014 and no complaint  about this compensation was raised  within 6 months of the date of 
the offer letter as required. So I have only considered loan 8028 so far as it needed to be 
considered in relation to the cross  reference  made  by Mrs M and Mr M when bringing  the 
complaint about  the loan Mrs M took out.
I am satisfied there was no PPI sold to Mrs M with her loan and this loan was not part of a 
chain with earlier loans  and did not directly  refinance  a loan that included  any PPI. I am also 
satisfied that the amount Mrs M paid to settle her loan early was correct.
If follows that I am not upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint that any compensation is due 
to be paid to them by NRAM.
Ref: DRN24474414my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I am not upholding Mrs M and Mrs Ms complaint that 
any compensation is due to be paid to them by NRAM  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2447441