K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC declined her application  for a current account 
and will not give a reason why.
background
Ms M is unhappy with Barclays  decision and would like to know  why it declined her 
application for a new current  account.  She says shes other bank accounts elsewhere and 
one different account type with Barclays. Shes checked her credit score  and cant find 
anything wrong  with it. She says she doesnt  want this decision to affect  her future  when she 
applies for a mortgage.
Barclays said in its final response that the initial checks  on Ms Ms application werent  
successful. The decision to decline her application has been reviewed and is correct. It cant 
provide information  on the guidelines it used to decline the application. But in this case  its 
criteria werent  met.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
A bank  is generally entitled to decide for itself who it takes on as a customer. Thats a 
commercial decision. Barclays has said it reviews  applications on a case by case  
basis. 
Barclays doesnt have  to tell Ms M in detail what criteria she hadnt  met as theyre 
commercially confidential to Barclays. Here Ms M didnt meet  Barclays  criteria even 
though she held other accounts. Thats reasonable and we wouldnt get involved in 
this decision unless  we thought a customer had been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably. Thats  not the case here.
The declined application could  affect  Ms M in the future. Barclays  will reflect it on her 
credit file as it has an obligation to provide  an accurate picture of her financial 
standing to credit reference  agencies.
Ms M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  She still wants  to know why 
her application  was declined.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Barclays doesnt have  to disclose the criteria  it uses to assess an application for a bank 
account. Thats commercially sensitive and confidential information. It also doesnt  have to 
give Ms M a reason for its decision to decline her application.
Here Barclays has said its initial checks on Ms Ms application were unsuccessful  and its 
criteria werent  met. 
Ref: DRN26710312Although I understand Ms Ms frustration I cant reasonably require Barclays to disclose any 
more detailed information as shed like.
It will be up to Barclays to decide  what information, if any, it records  on Ms Ms credit  file 
about this declined application. But it has an obligation to provide accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies. And if the matter is recorded on Ms Ms credit  file it will likely be 
visible to others in the future including mortgage lenders. Even so it will be up to each 
individual lender to decide what weight and effect, if any, the information will have on any 
mortgage application she makes.
Overall I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong. And although I understand Ms Ms 
frustration, I cant fairly or reasonably require it to give her more  information or a detailed 
reason for her application  being  declined, as shed like.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2671031