K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the with-profits annuity  he took out with Phoenix Life Limited in 2000.  
He doesnt think  the bonus rates declared over the years have been fair, and dont  reflect the 
actual investment growth achieved by the fund. Hes also concerned  that the illustration he 
was given at the time that the annuity  was set up was misleading.
background
Mr C took out the annuity in 2000.  He subsequently  became  concerned about the falling 
income it was providing and he complained  to the provider in 2011. He referred his 
complaint to us. It was considered by an ombudsman who issued  a final decision not 
upholding the complaint.  
Mr C complained to the firm again in 2017. And again he referred the matter to us. He said 
he had additional  information to his earlier  complaint  which  he thought was significant. This 
included several  more years worth  of financial data. And a copy  of an illustration which  he 
was given when  the annuity was first arranged and which he said he based his decision to 
buy it on.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought the complaint was essentially the same as the earlier one, and no materially new 
information had become  available. 
He noted that the ombudsman had explained there  were numerous  factors  which impacted 
on the bonus rates that were declared  annually in the earlier  complaint.  And the same 
factors impacted  on the bonus rates declared since then. 
The offer Mr C said hed based his decision on was an illustration provided at the time. It 
was in a standardised format as prescribed by the industry regulator. And it formed  only part 
of the information that would have been provided  to show the workings of the annuity and 
how it might  perform. The illustration wasnt a guarantee  that increased  investment rates  
would result in increased annuity income; there were several other  factors  involved which  
might have contributed  to the income  not being  increased. He thought the annuity and 
underlying fund had continued to be managed and operated within the regulators 
guidelines. And there wasnt  any evidence the regulator had any concerns about how 
Phoenix managed  its with-profits  annuity.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He said, in summary, that the more recent bonus rates 
declared including 2017 and 2018 clearly didnt reflect the long term investment  return  on the 
fund, including  Estate uplifts.  He also said he didnt agree with the adjudicators  
assessment about  the Personal Offer. He said the offer set out exactly  how much pension  
would be payable depending on the investment fund growth. The application  of bonuses or 
method of calculation werent mentioned; the sole determining factor  was investment growth. 
He said this was the major factor. Although the fund had achieved  the investment growth the 
firm hadnt provided  the income promised.
my findings.
Ref: DRN21150792Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so Ive come to the same conclusions  as 
the adjudicator,  and largely for the same  reasons.
Mr C brought a complaint to us in 2011 and an ombudsman issued a final decision  on that 
complaint. I think that, at heart, his current complaint  is largely about the same issue.  But I 
think its reasonable to consider the matter because it is possible that there could come a 
point, after a reasonable period of time has elapsed, where there is clear evidence of a 
material disparity between  the bonus  rates declared  and the underlying investment 
performance of the fund.  So Ive given careful  consideration  to the evidence that Mr C has 
presented.
Its clear that Mr C has an understanding of the workings of the annuity which were 
examined in the previous complaint and this. So I wont revisit its mechanics in detail. But  
Mr C selected an Anticipated Bonus Rate (ABR) of 4% at outset.  So in order  for the income 
provided to increase, the yearly bonuses declared  needed to be in excess of this figure.  And 
that hasnt been the case.
I tend to agree with Mr C that the part of the illustration he has referred to could be 
misleading if its considered in isolation.  It doesnt  include the impact of the 4% ABR he 
selected or explain the basis of how bonus rates are calculated and declared. But as the 
adjudicator said,  this only formed part of the documentation  to explain how the annuity 
worked; other documents  provided further details  about it workings and the impact  of the 
ABR. The documentation  needed to be considered in the whole. The annuity was 
recommended and arranged through an Independent Financial  Adviser. It was the advisers 
responsibility to explain  all the workings  of the annuity to enable Mr C to make  an informed 
decision about it. So Im not persuaded there was a failure by Phoenix which caused Mr C to 
make a decision that he would otherwise not have made.
Mr C has performed some rough calculations based  on the illustrations  and the funds 
investment returns to show how his annuity  income  doesnt reflect  the growth achieved over 
the period of investment.  As Ive said above,  the illustration doesnt include the impact  of the 
ABR. And an adjustment would need to be allowed for in Mr Cs figures for other factors  
such as expenses, which would have an impact  on his figures.
However, ultimately, Mr C is alleging that Phoenix  isnt managing  and running  its with profits  
annuity fairly  that the bonuses declared dont fairly reflect the funds underlying investment 
growth. 
With-profits funds have  attracted  criticism  for their lack of transparency. I understand Mr Cs 
suspicions about the level of bonuses declared  and I accept it is very difficult for 
policyholders to satisfy  themselves that they are receiving what they are entitled to under the 
terms of their plan. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the business has got something 
wrong. 
As previously explained, Phoenix is accountable to the industry regulator (now  the Financial 
Conduct Authority   FCA) for the way in which it operates its with-profits  fund (in accordance  
with its Principles and Practices  of Financial Management document). And the regulator 
monitors the management of it. Businesses  are required to appoint  a with-profits actuary  and 
the FCA provides  rules  and guidance on their duties.  Phoenix also has an independent 
With-Profits Committee  whose remit is to protect  the interests of the with-profits 
policyholders and ensure that they are treated fairly.
Ref: DRN21150793I think the figures provided by Mr C can be explained through  the workings of the policy and 
fund, rather than being a clear  indication that something is wrong.  Ultimately,  its the FCA 
that monitors its management and I am not aware  that it has any concerns about  it. Where a 
commercial decision has been made  by a business, relating to all eligible  policyholders,  this 
goes much wider than the individual complaint and concerns the way the business operates. 
Matters of this nature  may be reported to the FCA.
I realise that Mr C will be disappointed with my findings. However after having  carefully  
considered the matter,  Im not persuaded that Phoenix is operating its with-profits annuity  
incorrectly.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2115079