K822xcomplaint
Mrs C, on behalf of the estate of Mrs J and the estate of Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank 
UK PLCs was responsible for delays in relation to the sale of shares which  has caused loss.
 
background 
Mrs C is the sole beneficiary in relation to the estate of both Mr J and Mrs J and has been  
also appointed  to deal with both estates under appropriate Grants  of Probate (GOPs). She is 
assisted in this complaint  by solicitors.
Mrs C has had cause to complain about  various matters relating  to what Barclays did and 
didnt do in relation to the estates. Barclays has upheld a number of the issues  raised by her 
and redress has been offered and accepted  by her in relation to those issues.  
The crux of this complaint is the delay  that prevented Mrs C dealing  with the shares  in Mr Js 
estate  in particular selling shares in Carillion which went  into liquidation  in January 2018. 
This was part of a complaint she had made which included the following further issues; 
Barclays doing nothing  on receipt  of the death certificate  for Mr J being  sent in June 2017; 
incorrectly being told she could only transfer stocks and shares to the SmartInvestor account 
she was told to open if she was the spouse; she has been unable  to open a SmartInvestor  
account.
In its response to the complaint Barclays said it hadnt picked up that the death certificate 
had been sent in June  2017 until December 2017. It apologised for providing the wrong 
information about Mrs C needing to be a spouse  to transfer stocks and shares to a Smart 
Investor account and the difficulties Mrs C had in opening an account. It didnt say anything  
about compensation for losing out on the stocks  and shares  in Mr Js account.  Barclays  
offered £500 for any trouble and upset caused. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said he had seen 
no request for a sale of the Carillion  shares before it went  into liquidation. He thought the 
£500 Barclays had offered  in response  to her overall complaint was reasonable.
The solicitors responded to the investigators opinion saying they,  and Mrs C, didnt feel the 
investigators opinion  correctly reflected the position and referred to the timeline it had 
provided. In summary  it made the following  points:
The original request to Barclays was made in June 2017 not December 2017.
Barclays said it didnt receive  a valid instruction to close the SmartInvestor account 
until April 2018  but this is because it hadnt  sent a form out originally  which caused 
delay.
When Barclays did receive  an instruction in April 2018  it still didnt transfer  the 
monies to Mrs C until August 2018.
This isnt a case of consequential loss but of inordinate delay throughout the process  
and if there hadnt been such delay Carillion going into liquidation wouldnt have been 
an issue.
Although there was no explicit instruction  to sell the Carillion shares  there were many  
requests to close the accounts whilst Carillion was still trading.
Ref: DRN26865782Barclays valued the 5,454 Carillion shares on 17 January 2018 at £10,976 at which  
time Barclays had closed the ordinary bank accounts but had not complied with the 
request to transfer or close the stockbroking accounts.
The investigator hasnt commented on what they said about Mrs C being told by the 
Barclays premier manager that the delay was entirely the fault of Barclays.
When Mrs C spoke to Barclays SmartInvestor team  she informed them  on several 
occasions that she had experience of a benchmarking system  and for this reason 
she was aware of the possibility of the Carillion share collapse.
Mrs C couldnt proceed with the sale of shares because Barclays  were unable  or 
unwilling to complete the necessary  procedures.
In a letter dated 31 July 2017  from them to Barclays stockbrokers it was requested 
that payments  from Mrs Js estate be sent to them.  The monies were only transferred 
on 26 April 2018.
They sent requests  for information to Barclays - with the intention that the information  
would lead to closure of the accounts  on 25 July 2017, 31 July 2017, 24 August 
2017, 6 December 2017 and 15 March 2018.
Barclays hadnt made clear it required Expression of Wishes forms to be completed  
in addition to the indemnity closure  forms that were sent to it on 6 December 2017.
Barclays continued to write to Mrs J after her death, having been informed of her 
death on many occasions. They also asked to send death certificates and GOPs  on 
many occasions. It is clear there was a breakdown in Barclays  systems and this 
inefficiency caused delay.
The situation with Barclays  has caused  undue distress and continues  to do so.
The investigator asked  for further  information from Barclays.  It said that Mrs Cs premier  
manager had confirmed that she had significant  problems opening a SmartInvestor  account  
in her name and it agreed there were significant IT issues on its side.  Barclays  said it doesnt 
have records of failed  attempts to open accounts  but it is likely that the first attempt to open 
such an account wouldve  been  around the time the GOP was sent by the solicitors on 6 
December 2017.
It said that the account shouldve been open and available the next day and the earliest an 
instruction couldve  been started on Mr Js accounts  was after receipt of the GOP on 6 
December 2017.  It pointed out that the letter  that was sent by the solicitors  with the GOP 
included authority for closing the bank  accounts,  as signed by Mrs C. 
Barclays said this letter didnt cover  the investment accounts and the second solicitors letter 
of 6 December  2017 asking for transfer  of all investments into Mrs Cs name, didnt state 
whether this was in-specie or cash and didnt  include any signed authority from her. It said 
the solicitors letter  asked for the forms necessary to do this for this but that the Expression  
of Wishes form had been sent in the probate packs sent on 4 May 2017,  26 June 2017 and 
15 August 2017.
The investigator sent Mrs C the additional  information Barclays  had provided  in response to 
his request and told her this didnt change his opinion.
Mrs C responded and said that if Barclays  had accepted the death certificate  sooner  the 
GOP wouldve come through sooner and the opening of a SmartInvestor account in her 
name wouldve been sooner. She said she would  then have had the chance to decide what 
to do about the Carillion  shares or other shares  Mr J held. She said the crux of the complaint 
is that she wasnt in control of the portfolio due to Barclays ineptness.
Ref: DRN26865783my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no issue about Barclays  providing  a poor service to Mrs C, both in her capacity  as 
the representative of both of her late parents estates and in her own capacity as a customer  
in relation to the opening of a SmartInvestor account. Her unhappiness  with Barclays  is 
completely understandable given she was having to deal with the death  of both her parents 
within a short period of time. Barclays quite rightly offered redress  for various  failings, which 
Mrs C has accepted. 
This complaint is about an issue which has not been  resolved, namely  whether Barclays 
caused a delay that meant that Mrs C was unable to take any action with regard to Mr Js 
shares  in particular  in relation to his Carillion shares. 
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely, than not, to have happened  based on the evidence the 
parties have provided.  So I am not saying  what definitely did or didnt happen  
Mr J died on 4 June  2017 with the GOP  being obtained on 2 November 2017. There is 
disagreement about whether Barclays is responsible  for the application for the GOP being 
delayed. The solicitors  have said there  was delay  in applying for the GOP  because they 
were waiting for information  to be provided by Barclays. 
But the only information the solicitors  needed from Barclays  to apply for the GOP was the 
probate valuation  and return  of the original  death  certificate, which the solicitors  sent to 
Barclays on 25 July 2017. The probate valuation was sent to the solicitors on 15 August 
2017 and the original  death certificate  returned to them on 14 August 2017. In the 
circumstances I am not satisfied that Barclays caused any significant delay in the GOP being 
obtained because  of the time taken to provide  the information the solicitors wanted.
I note Mrs C has referred to Barclays not accepting  the death  certificate  for six months.  This 
is a reference  to what Barclays said in its response of February 2018 to her complaint. I am 
not sure what Barclays meant  by this. But given it returned the original death certificate to 
the solicitors in August 2017 and had clearly accepted the death  certificate  at that time - as it 
provided a probate valuation  I dont  accept any delay in applying  for the GOP was caused  
by it not accepting the death certificate.
The solicitors wrote to Barclays on 6 December 2017 with the GOP and a Personal 
Indemnity Closure  (PIC) form, which was signed by Mrs C and authorised  the closure of all 
Barclays bank accounts including bond  accounts.  
The solicitors have  said they werent provided with any other form. But it is clear that the PIC 
form is used where the total value of the accounts  is up to £30,000. Given  the probate  
valuation of the shares Mr J held was in excess of £55,000 the solicitors were  aware  some  
other form was required.
Their awareness is also shown by the second  letter they sent on the 6 December 2017. In 
that second letter the solicitors requested that all investments of the late Mrs J be transferred 
to one account with Mr Js investments and thereafter transfer  of all funds to Mrs C as the 
Ref: DRN26865784sole beneficiary. They also asked  for Mr J and Mrs Js ISA accounts  to be dealt with in the 
same way if possible. 
The solicitors explained that what they were trying to do was transfer  all accounts  to Mrs C in 
her own name not as executor  of the estates.  They finished  the letter by asking for Barclays  
to send the necessary forms  so knew that what they were  asking for wasnt covered by the 
PIC form.
The form that Barclays needed was an Expression of Wishes form. Barclays has said this 
had previously been sent to the solicitors  with the probate pack that was issued when the 
probate valuation  was given, and also before this on 26 June 2017. I think it is more likely 
than not the probate  pack was sent as part of Barclays normal  process  when dealing  with 
bereavement claims.  And if the solicitors  had received nothing I think  it is more likely than 
not they wouldve chased for this.
The solicitors letter of 6 December 2017  was silent as to whether Mrs C wanted the sale of 
shares and transfer  of the cash value or transfer in-specie. The letter contained no authority 
from Mrs C to sell the shares and Barclays were not able to do anything until it had the 
appropriate authority.  
Barclays sent a further Expression of Wishes form to the solicitors  on 17 January 2018 with 
another probate valuation  showing  Carillion shares  valued at £10,976. Even if they had been  
a bit quicker in sending  this there  is no way of knowing  if the shares wouldve been sold 
before Carillion went into liquidation.  And there  is no clear  evidence Mrs C wouldve sold the 
shares between December 2017  and 15 January  2018 anyway.
I think it is also of note that the London  Stock Exchange shows that Carillion shares dropped 
significantly in value  in July 2017  before losing most of the rest of their value by the end of 
November 2017.  Their highest value  after this was in the second week of January 2018  
when they reached  23.87 pence.  So even if I had found that Barclays  was responsible  for 
the shares not being sold between 6 December 2017 and 15 January 2018  Mrs Cs loss 
wouldnt have been the £10,976  she has claimed,  but at most £1,301.
I note what Mrs C has said about  the involvement  of her premium bank manager and his 
internal correspondence with Barclays and the acceptance that it had caused  delay.  
Barclays has said that the manager  had indicated what was being  referred  to was the delay 
in Mrs C being able to open a SmartInvestor account in her own name.  This isnt in issue  
and whatever discussions the manager had this doesnt change my finding that Barclays 
arent responsible for nay loss relating to the Carillion shares.
Barclays offered £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs C for other elements of the 
complaint she made. I think it is worth  noting  I am not able to make awards to third party 
representatives such as executors.  But given  I havent upheld  her complaint about  the 
Carillion shares I wouldnt award anything for this anyway. It is for Mrs C to decide if she now 
wants to accept the £500 Barclays  offered.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Ref: DRN26865785Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C as the 
representative of the estate of Mr J and the estate  of Mrs J to accept  or reject my decision 
before 7 March  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2686578