K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc blocked  funds  in his account  causing him financial 
difficulties. He later complained that HSBC had unfairly put a fraud marker against him.
background
Mr M said he sells car parts as a hobby  and was introduced to a buyer who put £35,000 in 
his account to buy some parts. He said this was checked by HSBCs fraud department and 
blocked. Mr M said HSBC then released  the funds and he spent some of it, but then HSBC 
reapplied its block  when he tried to withdraw the funds  and he was interviewed  by the police. 
Mr M said HSBC  asked  where the money  came  from and told him he needed to provide an 
invoice. Mr M said he did this the next day, but HSBC  told him the funds had already been 
returned to the sending  account and he would need  to contact the person who sent him the 
money. Mr M said that person told him they don't have the money.  
HSBC blocked  Mr Ms account  whilst it carried out a review and it then wrote  and told him it 
was closing his bank account. HSBC  told Mr M it was entitled  to take this action under the 
terms of the account  but didnt have to give him detailed reasons for this. It said Mr M would 
need to repay his negative balance, and has subsequently confirmed that he has done so.
The investigator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, saying its not uncommon for a bank 
to review a transaction it considers unusual, especially for a large  amount. He said HSBC  
had to take action and follow its legal  and regulatory  obligations to return  fraudulent funds.  
The investigator said HSBC can chose who it does business with and isnt obliged  to tell Mr 
M why it made  the decision to return the funds  or close his account. He said HSBC  acted in 
line with the terms  in closing the account and the funds were  returned to the sender before 
the transactions that led to Mr Ms account  becoming overdrawn. 
Mr M disagreed, asking how HSBC can conduct  fraud checks and a review, putting  un-
cleared funds in his account, but then blocking this after hed sent goods to his buyer. He 
said HSBC deciding the funds were fraudulent is nothing to do with him as HSBC didnt to 
alert him. He said HSBC  had assisted in a fraud against him and complained that it had 
placed a fraud marker on him when hes the victim.  Mr M wanted to know why his buyer  had 
requested the reversal of the payment and what,  if anything a reasonable person could do to 
prevent this occurrence. Mr M requested an ombudsman  consider his complaint.
The investigator reconsidered the complaint and confirmed that HSBC acted fairly and in line 
with its obligations.  He said HSBC made checks, but after unblocking the funds, it received 
notification the funds were  fraudulent and so blocked access. He said in cases  like these, 
the amount of information banks can provide their customers is very limited. But HSBC told 
Mr M it was looking into the payment and that it had returned the funds back to the sender. 
The investigator said HSBC has a duty to record accurate information  to record fraudulent 
activity. He said HSBC  was provided with sufficient information to show  the funds sent to Mr 
Ms account  were fraudulent and so it was correct to record  this with the fraud database.
Mr M repeated his disagreement and said the investigator was biased towards HSBC. 
Ref: DRN25158572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at HSBCs decisions and handling of Mr Ms account to see if it has acted 
in accordance with the correct procedures and to see if it has treated him fairly.  Having  done  
so I am satisfied that HSBC has acted properly and fairly towards Mr M and I wont  tell it to 
return the funds  paid into his account, or pay him compensation. I will explain my reasons.
HSBC was not satisfied as to Mr Ms entitlement to the payment of £35,000  and in these  
circumstances its required to investigate. It carried out a review and blocked Mr Ms 
account, and returned the £35,000 payment to the sender of the payment. HSBC  then 
closed Mr Ms account. 
HSBCs actions in reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing Mr Ms account were all 
carried out in accordance  with the terms of the account and the regulatory  and legal 
obligations and procedures that apply  to banks in these circumstances. Banks as well as 
customers have the right to close accounts.  
Mr M said that HSBC hadnt  exercised due diligence  to protect him as a customer according 
to its responsibility. I disagree as from what Ive seen HSBC has shown due diligence in 
investigating a fraudulent  transactions and has sought to protect the sender of the funds by 
returning the payment to the sender  of the funds.  HSBC,  in common with all banks, is 
entitled to decide that it no longer wants to have Mr M as a customer. In summary I think 
HSBC made  reasonable decisions about  the suspect transaction  in the circumstances  and 
was entitled to end its relationship with Mr M. Banks are not required to give full explanations  
of their reasons  for taking  action to protect customers and prevent fraud and we cant  
compel HSBC to do this.
The investigator correctly  stated that businesses  are required  to report  accurate information  
about customers to the fraud databases.  He has also explained the reasons for HSBC 
initially giving Mr M access to the funds and the reason this was changed. From  what Ive 
seen HSBC treated  Mr M fairly in its handling of his account and has met its requirements in 
placing the fraud marker against him.
Im pleased that Mr M has been able to clear the negative balance on his former account  
with HSBC, though I acknowledge  his concerns  about the effect  on him of £35,000  being  
sent back from where it came. If he wishes to pursue the payment that was returned he will 
need to do so directly  with the person to whom  the funds were  returned.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 May 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25158573
Ref: DRN2515857