K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that his personal pension was mis-sold by Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited.
background
Mr S was a deferred member of an occupational pension  scheme  (OPS). His former 
employer ceased  trading,  and the OPS  was in the process of being wound up. Mr S says he 
was approached by Sun Lifes adviser, who he had known  previously, in 1995. And, 
following the advisers recommendation, Mr S transferred  his benefits to Sun Life.
Mr S complained to Sun Life in 2018.  He said, in summary, that he had been badly advised  
to transfer his final salary  pension  to a personal  pension.
Sun Life Assurance Company didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said, in particular:
The adviser had conducted a transfer analysis (TVAS), which  determined  that a 
growth rate of 9.8% a year was required to replace the benefits payable under the 
frozen deferred annuity on offer to Mr S from his OPS. As the growth rates  used at 
the time under the regulators guidelines  were 6%, 9% and 12% a year,  and this was 
only slightly above the mid-point, it was considered appropriate to transfer;
Mr Ss attitude to investment risk was recorded as adventurous  and 8 on a scale  
of 1 to 10, with 1 being very cautious  and 10 being very adventurous. Mr S also 
chose to invest 25% of the transfer  value  into the International  Fund and 75% into the 
Equity Fund, supporting the fact that he was not an inexperienced investor.
Mr Ss only other alternative  to transferring his benefits was to accept a deferred  
annuity which would provide a spouses  pension which  he did not need, and was 
guaranteed for five years. In the event of his death before  retirement his estate  would 
then only receive  a refund of the contributions  he had made  into the OPS, plus 
interest;
It was normal for a consultant to contact people  that he or she already knew.  It was 
also possible that Mr Ss former  employer  had invited the consultant  into their office 
to talk to employees,  as it would  have wanted  employees to consider their options 
carefully.
It was standard  practice throughout the industry for companies to pay advisers 
commission. Mr S was given  all the relevant documentation that explained  what  the 
deductions were  and how much commission was being paid for setting up the plans;
It couldnt comment on whether the adviser had also advised other members  of 
Mr Ss OPS;
The pension  transfer analysis was carried out based on the regulators guidelines at 
the time taking into account  the current annuity rates of 8.2%. The growth rates used 
were not considered excessive  at that time given the growth rates that the investment 
funds had been achieving. The document also warned that the final returns could  not 
be guaranteed and would be dependent on the investment performance of the 
selected funds.
Mr Ss plans  were unit-linked  based  investments. The value of the units  were linked 
to the performance  of the underlying assets of the funds which  could go up or down 
in value. The final value of the plan could not be guaranteed;
In the past 23 years  cumulative investment returns had been  lower  than previously 
expected and investment conditions continued to be volatile. The volatility in the 
Ref: DRN23651342markets had resulted  in lower investment returns, which  in turn had had an impact on 
Mr Ss plans values.
A number of projections  were provided as the amount  of the initial  investment was 
different each time. The transfer  analysis and illustrations contained warnings that 
the final benefits would be dependent on investment performance, along  with annuity 
rates. The figures were not exaggerated  and were produced  based on the growth  
rates required by the regulator.
Our adjudicator felt that the business had dealt  with Mr Ss complaint fairly. He said,  in 
summary, that the critical  yield of 9.8% indicated that the transfer value was reasonable for 
the benefits being given  up. And, although  Mr S said that the adviser had suggested the 
adventurous category,  Mr Ss circumstances at the time and since suggested he wasnt 
averse to investment risk. So he didnt think that the pension funds Mr S invested in were out 
of keeping with the level of risk he believed Mr S was happy to accept. And he didnt think it 
was unreasonable to think that those funds  had the potential to produce the returns 
expected.
The adjudicator also looked at the information  Mr S had been given. He was satisfied that 
Mr S was given correct information  before  he signed  the application form to go ahead. And, 
while Mr S had mentioned  receiving  illustrations which looked more  attractive  than those 
hed originally been given, he believed from the evidence hed seen that Mr S was referring  
to a Post Sale illustration. This was something  all insurance companies were required to 
send consumers once  a product was set up. They were produced on a standardised basis, 
and he was satisfied  it wasnt produced  as a means of trying to make  the potential  returns 
look more attractive.
Mr S doesnt  agree  with our adjudicators view, and has asked for his complaint to be passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.  He says in particular  that he had joined the OPS 
earlier than the adjudicator had indicated in his view letter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S also transferred a protected rights  plan to Sun Life at around the same time 
as he transferred the OPS benefits.  However, this did not form part of Mr Ss complaint to 
this service and, for the avoidance  of doubt, I have not considered  it further in this decision.
Having carefully considered all the evidence relating to the transfer  of Mr Ss OPS benefits, I 
agree with our adjudicator that the advice Mr S received was not unsuitable for his 
circumstances. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment to Mr S, so Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
As the adjudicator has explained, the adviser  was required  to carry out a TVAS  to determine 
the growth needed to match the benefits that would otherwise have been available  from the 
OPS. In Mr Ss case, the critical yield was calculated as 9.8%.  This was then compared to 
the rates of return  used in the illustration to project benefits at retirement.  The assumed rates 
of investment growth used in illustrations at the time were 6%, 9% and 12%.  As the critical 
yield was only a little above the mid-point, and as Mr Ss recorded attitude  to risk was 
adventurous, Sun Lifes adviser recommended the transfer.
Ref: DRN23651343I note that Mr S says that the adventurous  category was suggested by the adviser. But, 
having reviewed  the evidence,  I agree with our adjudicator that Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time and since shows that he was prepared to take some  investment risk. I also agree that 
the pension funds Mr S invested in werent out of keeping with the level of risk he was 
prepared to accept.  
The benefits  Mr S was transferring didnt represent his entire  pension  provision and, given 
the time to retirement, there was a reasonable expectation of achieving growth on the funds.
For the reasons  set out above, Im not persuaded that the advice to transfer was unsuitable.
Mr S has pointed  out that our adjudicator said that Mr S had accrued benefits in the OPS 
over 7 years, when  in fact he had been  a member  for 12 years.  And I see from the business  
file supplied to this service that, although  the TVAS notes that Mr S joined the OPS in 1984,  
another document clarifies  that his benefits  were backdated. This ties in with Mr Ss 
recollections. But, in any event, Im not persuaded that the length of Mr Ss service would 
have made  a difference to the critical yield calculated, as the OPS benefits were to be 
provided as a set starting income  from retirement  age. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels that he was unduly  influenced by the fact that he already knew 
the adviser, and that the adviser had knowledge of the OPS.  But, although Ive considered 
what Mr S has to say, I dont agree that this of itself makes the advice he received unsuitable 
for his circumstances. So it doesnt  change my decision.
Finally, Mr S has also said that Sun Life should have been aware that annuity  rates  were  
falling. But although I appreciate the impact of the fall in annuity rates on Mr Ss benefits, I 
dont believe  that current annuity rates could reasonably have been  foreseen  at the time of 
the advice to transfer. And I note that the illustrations  sent to Mr S did make it clear  that his 
final benefits would be dependent  on actual investment growth of the funds, actual plan 
charges and pension (or annuity) rates available at retirement. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2365134