K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in-branch.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £287.70  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The total 
monthly loan repayment was just over £87  £14 of which was for the PPI. 
Because of the passage of time, Lloyds has been able to provide  the actual policy terms and 
conditions that applied to Mr Ms PPI policy. But its referred  us to the earliest available  
policy - from 1996 - which I accept on the balance of probabilities  likely  reflects the policy  Mr 
M bought.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Ms monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim,12  months in the event of 
unemployment and it would clear the outstanding  balance if Mr M died. 
Mr M told us that at the time of the sale he was employed as a carpenter and that he was 
entitled to 12 months  sick pay, redundancy pay and death-in-service  benefit. He also said 
he had a medical condition in 2005.  But Mr M provided his circumstances for 2007 when he 
thought the sale took place  but this is more than 10 years after the actual event in 
question. 
In a conversation  Lloyds  had with Mr M during its investigation of his complaint, he said that 
while he was a carpenter as he told us, he was in fact self-employed at the time of the sale 
(Lloyds system records also show Mr M was self-employed.)  Because  of this, he didnt have 
any entitlement to sick pay. Mr M told Lloyds he might have had some savings at the time, 
but he couldnt recall  the details. Mr M told Lloyds he was in good health at the time. On 
balance, I think the information Mr M gave  Lloyds is a more  accurate reflection of his 
circumstances at the time of the sale. 
Mr M has said the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. But Lloyds  has sent us 
screenshots to show that the loan purpose was for a car. Its also provided screenshots  to 
show that the loan ran to term - the account  closed in 1997.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr M wouldnt 
Ref: DRN27019432have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr M about the poor value;  and
 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1997. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN27019433There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
ombudsman  might have been  expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN27019434-Whether Lloyds gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr Ms loan agreement from the time. And this 
isnt surprising - Mr M took out his loan many  years ago and the account  closed more than 
20 years  ago. Businesses dont have  to keep records indefinitely.
Lloyds has however provided  an example  credit  agreement, which it says is representative 
of what Mr M wouldve  seen  when he took out his loan and PPI. Looking at this I can see the 
PPI loan was set out separately from the main cash loan under  the heading Optional Loan  
Repayment Protection. There is also a separate section which asks the applicant to tick one 
of two equally prominent boxes  Yes  or No  whether  they wanted Optional  Loan 
Repayment Protection. The applicant is then required to sign the agreement.
Taking everything into account   and in the absence of persuasive evidence that Mr M saw 
something very different when he took out his loan and PPI - I think its more  likely that Mr M 
knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr M agree that advice was provided during this sale.
 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting  its also been  may years since  things happened as I 
said above. 
Ref: DRN27019435The adviser likely had some limited information  about Mr Ms financial circumstances  from 
a loan application for example - but there is no specific  evidence to show the adviser  took 
steps to establish whether Mr M would have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded based  on the available evidence  
that Lloyds did all it should have done  to determine  whether  the policy was suitable for Mr M 
given his circumstances. So Im not persuaded  Lloyds advised with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  he would  not have received any sick pay as a self-
employed person  if he was unable to work due to illness,  or redundancy benefits if he 
was made unemployed. It doesnt  appear  Mr M had much,  if anything, by way of 
savings he could  fall back on  I dont think hed have likely borrowed money to fund 
his car purchase if he had substantive  savings  available. So I think  the policy  would 
have helped Mr M manage the consequences if he was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  
for him to claim  the policy didnt  place more evidential requirements or more  
onerous conditions  on the self-employed than an employed  person making an 
unemployment claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect his ability  to claim.  There were  also no additional  restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not likely have been paid if Mr M cancelled the 
policy early,  the loan term was relatively  short at 24 months and there  is nothing  to 
suggest (at the time) that Mr M had plans to repay the loan early. The purpose of the 
loan was not debt consolidation or anything else which  might  suggest a need  to 
repay the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  
Ref: DRN27019436I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was. And I think Mr M knew  that the single 
premium being added to the loan was £287  and the monthly cost was £14 each month - this 
information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr M likely  saw and 
signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the interest on the PPI premium  or the total cost 
of the policy  over the term of the loan - or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr M 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr M. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr M all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloyds shortcomings  have on Mr M? To what extent did Mr M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN27019437So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost an extra £14 a month  I think this wouldve been 
clear to him from the way the credit agreement was set out - it doesnt appear Lloyds set out 
separately the interest he would be charged on the PPI premium  or the total cost of the 
policy over the loan term. Having said that, given the loan was relatively  small and interest 
would only accrue  over 24 months,  and the interest would not have made  the policy  cost 
significantly more than Mr M realised (it added around £50), I dont think its likely the 
missing cost information would have affected Mr Ms decision  to buy the policy in his 
circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr M would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ms expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Ref: DRN27019438Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
that Mr M knew  about or ought  to have known about at the start date of the policy,  or 
for which he received  treatment for during the 12 months before the start date and 
which occurs again  within 12 months of the start date. Any chronic  or continuing 
disease at the start date was also excluded;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not likely provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr M repaid the loan early and 
the policy was cancelled, so it wouldve been  more expensive  for Mr M to have done  
so; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, or any job he could do taking account of his knowledge and training. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr M was self-employed when the PPI was 
taken out, it wouldnt  have been any harder  for him to make a claim if he became 
unemployed than someone who was permanently employed. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions.  Mr M also 
didnt likely  need, and theres no evidence to suggest he intended, to repay the loan early.  
So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be able to 
do, it might  have played into his thinking  about  what he would have  done.  And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr M was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own job the 
chances that he would be able to take up a similar  job would also,  in all probability, be 
limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. 
Ref: DRN27019439The policy was suitable for him, was sufficiently close to what  its likely he thought he was 
getting and provided benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  were Mr M 
made unemployed, or unable  to work  through accident or disability. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr M would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr M would not have 
bought the PPI he bought  unless , in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. 
Ref: DRN270194310For the reasons  Ive already set out I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M 
in a better position  than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2701943