K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained that CIS General Insurance Limited refused his claim under his motor  
insurance policy.
background
When Mr As car broke down he made  a claim under his policy.  But CIS declined  the claim. 
They said that his cars problem  was due to an internal mechanical  failure  and his policy  
didnt cover that. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought  that CIS 
hadnt acted unfairly.  Mr A didnt agree and so his case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A told CIS that his car started but then broke  down. But CIS said that that wasnt  an event 
which was covered by the policy, such as a collision, theft,  vandalism,  accidental damage or 
another insured event. They thought that his cars  problem may have been a mechanical  
failure and his policy didnt cover  that. 
Ive looked at his policy which says it does  not cover:
 loss or damage caused by mechanical,  electrical, electronic computer or computer
software failures, breakdowns, faults  or breakages.
Mr A complained that his policy wasnt fully comprehensive because of that. But I think  that 
its normal for car insurance policies to include such a clause. Theyre  intended to provide 
insurance against certain events which are defined in Mr As policy.  There is a different type 
of policy, such as a motor warranty policy, which can specifically  cover  mechanical 
breakdown.
CIS agreed  to have  Mr As car inspected by an independent engineer.  The engineer  thought 
that the cars  problem was a mechanical  failure.  He found no evidence  of damage consistent  
with Mr As car having  been involved in an accident or impact  or by any insured other  event. 
Mr A said that the engineer hadnt  examined the car properly because he hadnt gone into 
the transmission/ gear box. But the engineers report says that ...evidence of an internal 
mechanical failure was found in transmission, upon draining the transmission oil, broken 
components belonging to the transmission drive chain were found in the oil. 
So the engineer has explained how he made  the diagnosis of mechanical  failure.  The 
engineer is independent, and his report is clear and reasoned. Mr A hasnt shown  any expert 
evidence to say that such  a diagnosis  is not possible without going into the 
transmission/gear box. And he hadnt suggested  that an insured event had caused his car 
problem. So I think that CIS were  entitled  to rely on and accept the view of the independent 
engineer that the cars problem was caused by mechanical failure. And because Mr As 
policy doesnt cover  that, I think that CIS werent unfair to refuse his claim.
Ref: DRN25636722Mr A also complained that CIS didnt  give him a courtesy car while  they investigated the 
problem with his car. But CIS said they wouldnt do that unless they accepted  the claim and 
agreed to pay for the repairs, in which case theyd provide a courtesy car if available,  while  a 
car is being repaired. I see that Mr As policy wording is clear on that. CIS didnt accept his 
claim, and Ive explained why I think that wasnt unfair. So it follows that CIS werent obliged 
to provide him with a courtesy car either. So I dont think theyve done anything wrong there.
The independent engineers report also indicated that Mr As car had previously been 
marked a Category D write off. This means  that an insurer had previously deemed the car 
uneconomical to repair.  However such a car can be repaired, sold on and insured again. Mr 
A said he hadnt known that his car was a Category D write  off, and he felt that CIS shouldnt 
have insured such a car. However, given that Mr A says he didnt know  about  it, I dont think 
its reasonable for him to assume that CIS should  have known about  it. 
We dont think its reasonable to expect insurers to check for something like that before they 
insure a car. So, as the investigator explained, Mr A may wish to take this up with the seller 
of his car, or speak to his local trading  standards department.  
I do see that its frustrating for Mr A that his car has broken  down. But taking all the above 
into account, I think that CIS havent  acted unfairly in declining  Mr As claim and havent  
done anything  else wrong and so I dont ask them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2563672