K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs R. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. Mrs 
R was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account  in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs R has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  I will 
explain why. 
Mrs R says that if the PPI had been mentioned, shed not have bought it. But the form, which  
Mrs R signed, does  set out the PPI as a choice, and Mrs R has also signed the form a 
second time at this point to confirm she wanted  the PPI. So it seems  likely she was made  
aware she was buying  it.
Mrs R has also said the PPI wasnt explained  properly. It doesnt  seem that FICL 
recommended the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mrs Rs individual needs. This 
means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs 
R to decide whether it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs R clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to 
Mrs R. So Ive thought  about whether better information is likely  to have made a difference. 
But given Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont  think its likely  to have made  a difference to her decision.  
I say this because  its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could  have  kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts.  So the PPI is likely still to have  seemed potentially  useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN20142352Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2014235