K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was added to his 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr F successfully applied  for a credit  card with Lloyds in June  1995.  
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Mr F but I do know it was sold at some point  between June 1995 (when the card was sold to 
him) and January 2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mr F was designed  to protect his monthly card repayments if he 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Fs complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. Mr F 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mr F nor Lloyds can give me much information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mr F has said about how the policy was sold  that he wasnt  given a 
choice to have  the policy. But it has been  very difficult for me to understand how this 
would have happened with so little information  available about this sale. And in the 
absence of relevant  documentation, a more detailed recollection  from either  party or 
further information to support what Mr F has said, I cannot  fairly conclude on this 
occasion that the policy  was sold as he suggests  it was. I would need to see more 
information to support  what Mr F has said to conclude otherwise.  
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mr F to have the policy but even if 
it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for him anyway. Any claim under the 
policy more likely  could be paid for up to 12 months.  Mr F would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of his 6 
months full and 6 months half sick pay that he received  from his employer and his 
other provisions such as savings). Mr F also wasnt adversely  affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions. The policy also seemed affordable  for Mr F.
I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Fs decision to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN23522712It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. In conclusion, I dont think Mr F was mis-sold  the 
PPI policy. 
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold so I dont uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2352271