K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is a about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to him by 
NRAM Limited in 2005.
The loan and PPI was sold by another business  which later became part of NRAM Limited.     
I will refer to NRAM throughout this decision.
background
In March 2005 Mr S took out a loan for £9,000  to purchase a car. At the same  time he was 
sold a PPI policy. The PPI was funded by a single premium of £2,976.75 which was added 
to the loan. So in total Mr S borrowed £11,976.75. The loan was to be repaid over 72 
months.
The monthly repayment was £200.46  which was made up of £150.64 for the main loan and 
£49.82 for that part of the loan relating to the PPI premium. So if Mr S had repaid the loan 
over 72 months the PPI would have cost him £49.82 per month or £3,587.04 in total.
Mr S made one direct debit payment of £200.46 in April 2005.  The direct debit payment in 
May 2005 was returned by the bank unpaid. Mr S continued make small payments to NRAM 
of less than £3.00 until 2009  when the debt was written off. At the time the outstanding loan, 
including interest  was £14,199.76. The debt was sold to a third party. Mr S continued to 
make small payments to the third party.
In 2019 Mr S complained to NRAM about  the sale of the PPI policy.  NRAM agreed to uphold  
the complaint.  In its letter to Mr S NRAM offered to pay him £379.58. This was made up of 
£199.28 which represented that part of Mr Ss payments that had been used to reduce the 
PPI loan. The remainder  was made up of £180.30  compensatory interest  paid net of tax.
NRAM also said it would make a payment to the third party of around £3,387.76 to remove 
that part of the debt relating to the PPI. This would reduce the outstanding balance with the 
third party from £13,624.42  to £10,236.66.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with NRAMs response and he asked us to step in. Mr S says NRAM 
should pay that part of the debt which relates  to the PPI directly to him rather than the third 
party.
Our adjudicator thought that NRAMs offer was fair. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I realise Mr S and his representative will be disappointed but Im not upholding this 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN26329632I think it would be helpful to first explain our approach when we find that a PPI policy  has 
been mis-sold. 
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
In this case NRAM has offered to pay back to Mr S everything he actually paid because of 
the PPI. And it has offered to add compensatory interest for the time hes been  out of pocket. 
NRAM has also offered to make a payment to the third party  that now owns the debt. This 
payment will reduce the outstanding debt to the level it would have been if Mr S had not 
been sold the PPI.
So Im satisfied NRAMs offer would  return Mr S to the position hed be in if the PPI wasnt  
added to the loan. This is what Id expect it to do. But Mr S, through  his representative,  has 
said that NRAM should do something  different and pay to him directly  the amount needed to 
remove PPI from the outstanding  debt.  Mr S has made a number of points which Ive thought 
carefully about.
Mr S has pointed  out that other businesses that mis-sold PPI to him have taken a different 
approach and paid all the compensation  directly to him. But in this decision I am only looking 
at whether NRAMs offer is fair. It may be that another business has chosen to pay all the 
redress directly  to Mr S but different businesses  are entitled to make  their own business  
decisions. Just because another business has chosen to go over and above what  Id 
consider to be fair it doesnt follow that NRAM must  do likewise.  It could also be that the 
other business chose  to take that approach  because  of circumstances that applied to that 
particular complaint. 
Mr Ss representative has told us of the hardship  Mr S is facing. In some  cases  when a 
consumer is facing hardship Id direct  the business  to pay PPI compensation directly to the 
consumer. But Id only tell the business  to pay that part of the compensation the consumer 
actually paid. In this case NRAM has already agreed to do this rather than use it to further 
reduce the outstanding debt, and I think that is fair. 
Mr Ss representative has made  the points that NRAM doesnt own the debt anymore.  And 
that if the additional funds  were paid to Mr S hed be able to use those to negotiate a lower 
settlement with the third party that now owns the debt. 
Ultimately I have to decide what is a fair outcome to this complaint. And if I were  to direct 
NRAM to pay the amount  outstanding for the PPI directly to him, hed be receiving 
compensation for PPI premiums that he never  actually paid. And in my view that would not 
be fair.
Mr Ss representative has also questioned  why NRAM has asked Mr S to sign in full and final 
settlement of the offer. Ive thought about this but I think its reasonable for NRAM to require 
a signature to confirm  Mr Ss acceptance of the offer.
   
I realise Mr S and his representative will be disappointed with my decision.  But Id like to 
reassure them Ive taken  into account  all the points  theyve made. I do sympathise with the 
situation Mr S finds himself in, but in my view NRAMs  offer is fair and puts Mr S in the 
position hed be in if the PPI had not been sold to him. 
Ref: DRN26329633my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think  NRAM Limiteds offer is fair and 
I make  no further award against it. If Mr S accepts  this decision NRAM Limited  should  
update its offer, make arrangements to remove the outstanding PPI from the debt and refund 
to Mr S that part of the PPI that he paid, plus interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632963