K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Bank of Scotland  Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Mrs A in July 2000. The policy  
was added to Mrs As credit card account after she sent in an application  in the post. The 
policy and card ended in 2007.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint and I will explain why.
 I am persuaded  Bank of Scotland made Mrs A aware that the PPI was optional and 
she chose to take it. I say this because I can see on the application form she 
completed, that she signed separately to have the insurance, in a separate  box where 
Bank of Scotland is offering PPI. She could have  not signed the box and not taken the 
insurance. So after seeing this, I think that Mrs A was given a choice to have PPI on 
the form and she agreed  to it by signing for it. 
 As this was a postal  sale,  Bank  of Scotland didnt provide advice to Mrs A so it didnt  
need to ensure  that the policy was suitable  for her. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave  Mrs A was clear,  fair and not misleading  so that she could make  an 
informed choice  about the insurance. 
 When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided  clear information to Mrs A, I dont think it would have made a 
difference as I think she would have taken the PPI policy  anyway. 
 I say this because,  when  looking  at Mrs As circumstances at the time,  I think  she 
would have found  the cover useful. She has told us that he was entitled to at least  
6 months full sick pay with her employer at the time of sale,  but the policy would have 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time and for longer. The policy  would have paid in 
addition to her sick pay, for up to an extended  period  of 12 months if she couldnt  work. 
So I think she would have  found at least some benefit  in having  the cover.
 I dont think on this occasion Mrs A was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
within the policy such as those given for pre-existing medical  conditions.  
Ref: DRN25850482 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Mrs A. But I think she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were  for the same reasons  that I have already given. 
The PPI policy  was competitively  priced and affordable.   
So I think it unlikely Mrs A would  have made  a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided. So I dont uphold her complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2585048