K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the delays by (the company now known as) Fairmead 
Insurance Limited in dealing with their home  insurance claim for water damage to their 
house and contents.
background
In March 2018 whilst Mr and Mrs D were  on holiday,  a neighbour discovered that their house 
was flooded by a leak. This was traced  to the water  feed to a cold water storage tank in the 
loft. They  made a claim to Fairmead - substantial  damage had been  caused to the first floor 
and ground floor of the property and the contents.  Mr and Mrs D werent able to live in the 
home and had to be moved to alternative  accommodation.
Drying out of the property started in early April. Mr and Mrs D had cause to complain that the 
claim was progressing slowly. This complaint was addressed by Fairmead  in a final 
response letter of 25 June 2018. 
Because further strip out works  were  needed  and the property had to be assessed for 
asbestos removal, drying out wasnt  completed until early August. Later in August the loss 
adjuster and contractor  reviewed a scope of works which had been drawn up in July 2018. It 
was found that the damage  was much more substantial than thought.  This was redrawn in 
October 2018 and the total sum for the claim revised. A further meeting was set up with the 
loss adjuster, contractor  and Mr and Mrs D in December  2018. Mr and Mrs D then indicated 
that they wanted to have some private work done,  Fairmead explained that this couldnt be 
done by its contractors so the work  would  have to be arranged  alongside it. Mr and Mrs D 
decided not to proceed with the private  work  but did ask for a wall to be moved which  was 
agreeable to Fairmead.
Mr and Mrs D complained  further  to Fairmead  in March 2019,  that the matter wasnt 
proceeding and they had no start date for the works. Fairmead apologised for the breakdown  
in communications  and arranged a further visit from the loss adjuster which took place in 
May 2019. The work was due to start in July 2019, completion being anticipated around  the 
end of August  2019. As far as Im aware, at least by March 2020  the work  still hasnt been 
completed.
On referral to this service  our investigator  found  that there were delays but these were 
understandable because  of the nature and complications of the claim. She pointed out that 
we could only review  matters that took place after the final response letters  of 25 June 2018 
and 18 September  2019 as the complaints  dealt  with in those letters  were  out of time for 
review by this service. She didnt think Fairmead needed to take any further  action.
Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with this  they felt there were long periods when nothing  
happened. They are still dissatisfied  with the progress of the work.  
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I agreed that I couldnt  address issues  dealt 
with in two earlier final response letters as those  complaints were  referred  to us more than 
six months after the dates  of those letters. But I thought that for the delays during the period 
from 25 June 2018 until July 2019 Fairmead  should pay compensation of £500.
Mr and Mrs D thought  that the amount  of compensation  paid was insufficient. They say that 
the building  works were  only started in April 2020  and are still ongoing. They  say they 
Ref: DRN24661272emphasised that they didnt want the private works to impact  the insured work so didnt think 
this should be taken into account.
Fairmead acknowledges that there were delays. However it said that for the bulk of the 
period from February  2019 Mr and Mrs D were disputing the schedule of works  and held the 
matter up. It felt a compensation payment of £250  was more appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
scope of this decision
Mr and Mrs D referred  their complaint  to this service while the claim was still ongoing. Our 
investigator set out her view on the matter in July 2019. Whilst I understand that they have 
other complaints about the way the matter has progressed since  then, Fairmead  hasnt had 
an opportunity to answer any such complaints.  So I will review matters up until July 2019.
Mr and Mrs D made  two earlier complaints  to Fairmead. Their initial complaints about delays 
in progressing the building work were dealt with in a letter of 25 June 2018. As they didnt 
refer the complaints set out in that letter to us within six months its out of time and I cant 
look at those complaints.  Similarly in a final response letter of 18 September 2018 Fairmead 
addressed a complaint about  how it dealt  with certain aspects of the contents claim. Again 
that complaint  is out of time for me to deal with.
So I will review the complaint about the progress of the claim from 25 June 2018 until July 
2019.
progress with the claim
It appears that a scope  of works was drawn up in July 2018. The drying out was said to be 
completed by 9 August. The further  issues with the property were I believe identified  in late 
August (if not they should have been). The scope of works had to be revised, but it appears 
this wasnt done  until late October and not approved by Fairmead until November.
There was a meeting  at the property in December 2018 when the repairs were discussed  
further. There was some  delay after that caused  by Mr and Mrs D wanting to carry out 
private work.  Fairmead  suggested  a cash  settlement but Mr and Mrs D didnt want  that, so in 
February 2019 they advised they no longer  wanted  to proceed with the private work.
It's difficult to see why there were further  delays after that. Mr and Mrs D had cause to 
complain that they didnt  have a start date for the repairs. Fairmeads letter  of 9 April 2019 
referred to a breakdown in communications and said that Mr and Mrs D had received a less 
than desired level of service but offered no compensation. 
There is an indication from the papers  that Fairmead  had problems  with the contractors  lack 
of communication.  And in early May Mr and Mrs Ds desire to have  a wall moved was 
discussed, although I cant see why this should have caused further delays. Although  the 
work was due to start in July 2019, Ive seen no indication that it did so.
Ref: DRN24661273Bearing in mind the scope of this decision,  I think that there were delays  of two months in 
reassessing the scope  of works after the drying  out, a further six weeks until the end of 
December and then,  after February 2019, for no apparent  reason,  a five month delay in 
agreeing a start date.
I appreciate that the repairs needed  were  very extensive but the long gaps  in communication 
and the failure  to agree on a start date seem to me to be at odds with what  I would  normally 
expect to happen in a claim  like this. I take into account delays caused by the possible 
private works but Ive noted  that for all this time Mr and Mrs D were living in temporary 
accommodation. Ive also noted Fairmead's agreement that theyd received a less than 
desired level of service.
In my view, for the time period  I am looking at in this decision, Fairmead should pay 
Mr and Mrs D £500 compensation.
I note Mr and Mrs Ds comments. However  Ive made it clear in my findings the period Im 
considering. If they have  further complaints about  the way that Fairmead dealt with their 
clam after July 2019,  and to date they should  put them to Fairmead to allow it to respond to 
them. Whilst they dont  feel I should take into account the delays caused by their wanting 
private works, I think  I should. The simple fact is that this caused delays in integrating  with 
insured works, and whilst  I note they later withdrew that request its something I think  fair to 
take into account.
With regard to Fairmeads comments,  I stand by my view about the delays caused up until 
February 2019. With regard to matters after then, the notes on Fairmeads file say:
18/02/2019  Insured confirmed no private  works are happening they advised they were 
expecting an email  from [..] with some  queries they had on the SOW* from {contractors], I 
will email  and call [..] on weds and ask she contacts them so we can get works booked in
Complaint logged on 8/02 & it was agreed  an action of how the claim was going to be dealt 
with going forward  but nothing changed or progressed
12/03/19 I called [contractors], I have (sic) if they have yet contacted the PH to discuss  the 
SOW She said that we were meant to
*scope of works
No revisit  was arranged  until 12 April. Mr and Mrs D were kept waiting two months. There  
was some drying out continued after that. But as for Fairmeads assertion that Mr and Mrs D 
were responsible for the delay  after that the evidence is sketchy, as the file notes dont 
reflect that. So I dont  know exactly why the works were put on further  hold. If it was because 
of Mr and Mrs D further querying of the schedule of works theres  no evidence that this was 
explained to them at the time.
My view remains that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable. This was a claim that had 
started more than a year earlier. It takes into account the hold ups caused by private works, 
Mr and Mrs Ds queries  about the schedule of work and the fact that I cant look at 
complaints about  earlier  delays in the claim.
Ref: DRN24661274my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay to Mr and Mrs D £500  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2466127