K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement paid by The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) after 
money was taken from his account  in 2008.
background
Mr W received  a cheque for £269.21 to settle a complaint. Hes unhappy as the amount is 
less that the money that was taken from his account. He thinks  it was around  £380. The theft 
took place over 10 years ago and caused him to go into debt. And RBS tried to use the 
money towards an outstanding debt. So he wants RBS to increase the compensation. And 
he wants to know how the money was taken from his account.
In December 2018 RBS contacted Mr W as part of a remediation  project. A number of 
customers hadnt received their money when trying  to make  cash  withdrawals from certain 
ATMs between  2006 and 2011. So Mr W was due a refund of £200  plus interest.
RBS said Mr W had an outstanding balance on his account. And itd previously advised him 
that any future payments into his account would be used to reduce that amount. Mr W spoke 
to RBS and raised  a complaint as the outstanding debt was from a long time in the past. 
Although RBS said it was entitled to apply the payment against Mr Ws debt, it agreed to 
refund a total of £269.21 to him as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with RBSs response. Hed been left in financial difficulty  in 2008  when  
the funds were taken  out. So he contacted  our service and our adjudicator looked into the 
matter. She felt RBS had been fair and reasonable when it refunded  the money to Mr W 
rather than use it to offset an outstanding debt. And she couldnt see anything to suggest  the 
cash withdrawal in 2008 was responsible for any financial difficulty.
Mr W didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision. Hed been unwell at 
the time the money  had been taken from his account. So hed trusted the bank was 
safeguarding his account. But the loss meant hed had to find other  money to cover his 
expenditure. And itd taken 11 years to return his money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws upset to discover  money  had been  taken  from his account without 
his knowledge.  He doesnt feel RBS has compensated him for the impact  on his life at the 
time. So Ive looked very carefully  at everything Mr W and RBS have said.
It seems  there was an issue with a number of cash withdrawals through  a particular banks  
ATMs between  2006 and 2011. As part of the investigation it was determined that £200 had 
been taken from Mr Ws account  on 10 September 2008 and Mr W hadnt received the 
money. 
As a result of the investigation Mr W was refunded the money  plus interest for the 11 year 
period in which he had been  without the funds.
Ref: DRN23608892Mr W is unhappy RBS initially used the refund to reduce an outstanding debt. He said his 
insolvency plan had ended in 2014. As a gesture of goodwill the bank agreed to send Mr W 
the refund  by cheque.  And I think thats  a fair and reasonable response in the 
circumstances. The withdrawal had taken place over 11 years ago and Mr W had been 
without the money  for all of that time.
Mr W said the discovery of the loss in 2008  felt like a light bulb moment.  It explains why his 
finances had spiralled out of control. So hed like further compensation for the impact the 
theft had on him. And he wants to know how someone was able to take cash from his 
account. 
From what  Ive seen I dont think thats  what happened. It appears a number of withdrawals  
were applied to customer  accounts for cash withdrawals - even though the customer didnt 
actually receive the money. It doesnt  seem  someone has been  able to access Mr Ws 
account without  his permission.
Im not underestimating the impact a £200  loss might have. And I can understand how Mr W 
wonders if that was the start of his financial difficulties. So Ive looked at Mr Ws statements 
from 2008 and 2009. And I can see Mr W made regular cash  withdrawals  often for sums 
up to £200 or more.  I realise Mr W says he was suffering from health problems at the time. 
So I can understand how he might not have been  aware an additional cash withdrawal had 
been debited from his account  without  realising he hadnt received the cash.
As Ive said I do appreciate that losing £200 would have an impact  on most peoples  
finances. But Mr Ws pattern of expenditure and cash withdrawals continued for quite some 
time around  this period.  And Ive really not seen any evidence  to suggest that this individual  
banking error was responsible for Mr Ws financial problems.
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties Mr W has experienced  with his health  and finances. And I 
do appreciate this mustve  been quite distressing for him. But I cant  really  say RBS has 
done anything  wrong. It contacted Mr W on behalf of the bank where the ATM error took 
place. And it sent him a refund for £269.21 to cover  the error  and interest for the 11 year 
period since the mistake  occurred.
But I cant say the mistake was solely responsible for Mr Ws financial difficulties. And I wont  
be asking RBS to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2360889