K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited unreasonably increased his 
premium for his motor  policy when  he bought  a new car midway through  his policy year.
background
Mr A bought his policy through a broker in September 2017  paying a premium  of £525.82, 
which he intended to pay by instalments through a finance agreement  set up by the broker.
When Mr A changed his car, the broker said that would cost him a further £479.43  to the end 
of the policy  year, which Mr A could also pay monthly.
Mr A was very unhappy  about this increase, as he bought exactly  the same type of car he 
had previously so he complained.  CIS didnt think it had done anything wrong with regards to 
the premium increase.  So Mr A brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator  also didnt think 
CIS had done  anything  wrong.
Mr A remained unhappy  so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I understand and appreciate my decision  will disappoint Mr A. However,  this service is not 
empowered to tell insurers  what price to charge its premiums at, as insurers (being 
commercial enterprises) are entitled to assess risks as they think  fit and are entitled to set 
the premium for those  risks. This includes the cost of mid-term adjustments such  as Mr As 
change of car.
My remit  and that of this service is simply to ensure Mr A wasnt singled out and treated 
unfairly in comparison  to any other customer of CIS in similar circumstances. And this is the 
case here.
The premium increases CIS asked Mr A would have  the same  increases CIS would have 
asked other  customers to pay in those  circumstances. I cant disclose the reasoning behind 
those increases or indeed any formulae to show how theyre calculated, as theyre 
commercially sensitive  and we publish our decisions. But as the adjudicator  explained this 
was due to the short  length of time Mr A obviously owned his new car for, despite it being  
the same  type of car meaning that the increase is solely calculated on the length  of time a 
policyholder has owned the car to be insured.
And it was also due to the fact his car was now to be kept in a garage overnight instead of 
on the street. Mr A said he had always said he kept his car in a garage,  but on the schedule 
for 2017/2018, it clearly says his car was to be kept overnight on the street and consequently 
this change mid-term (irrespective of whether it was street to garage or visa versa) also 
caused an increase  in premium. 
Ref: DRN28047132CIS has shown us that it would have applied the same premium increases to anyone else in 
similar circumstances, which  means Mr A hasnt been singled out and treated any differently 
to anyone else by CIS. That in turn means I cant say its done anything  wrong.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2804713