K820x#14complaint
Mr D (who is a director)  has complained  on behalf  of his company, which Ill refer to as G, 
about issues with the sale and renewal  of various motor  trade  insurance  policies  he took out 
through Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT).
background
Mr D first took out a motor  trade  insurance  policy in his own name in 2015.  He later changed 
the policyholder  to G and took out new policies through QMT in 2016 and 2017. And in 2018  
he renewed the policy through QMT. He originally complained about two things. The first 
was that QMT didnt provide him with any cover  documents  after he confirmed he wanted to 
renew the policy in 2018 until after the Easter Bank  Holiday. And that this led to him taking 
out a policy  with a new insurer instead.  Then,  when he cancelled the policy  through QMT, he 
was charged £137.68,  which he didnt think was fair, as hed only cancelled  due to QMTs  
failure to provide documentation. He eventually agreed a compromise on this with QMT, so 
didnt need us to consider this issue further.  
Mr D also complained that QMT didnt arrange  for his no claims discount  (NCD)  to be 
protected when  he took out the policy in 2015 and that this led to him losing two years of his 
NCD, as it was stepped back to three  years after a claim in the 2015/16 policy year.  He later 
added another  complaint point - that he thought G had paid much  higher premiums than 
necessary in 2016 and 2017. 
One of our investigators  investigated Mr Ds complaint points. She was satisfied QMT had 
treated G fairly and offered  appropriate policies in 2016 and 2017,  based on what  it had 
available from its panel of insurers. She explained it was up to Mr D to decide  on behalf of G 
whether he wanted  to go ahead at the premiums offered. She also explained the 
documentation sent to Mr D when he took out the policy in 2015 suggested his NCD wasnt  
protected. And she pointed out that he was unlikely to have shopped  around  if hed been  
told QMT could not arrange for his NCD to be protected. So, she decided not to uphold  Gs 
complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  He 
thinks QMT provided  substandard  and limited information and didnt provide G with 
competitive quotes.  
I reviewed the complaint  and asked Mr D to provide evidence to show he could have 
protected his NCD if hed been told by QMT it wasnt protected.  He provided details of a 
broker who he thought  could have arranged this. When we checked with the broker  
concerned, it said it wouldnt have been  possible because Mr D was bringing across an NCD 
from a private car insurance policy. Our further research suggested it wouldnt have been 
possible to protect an NCD being carried across from a private car insurance policy with any 
of the insurers  in the market providing  motor  trade  cover. I put this to Mr D and asked what  
hed have done if hed known this. Hes explained he probably would have kept his NCD and 
used it on a private car insurance policy instead.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22436222Dealing firstly with the role QMT played when arranging  the polices for G. QMT is an 
independent intermediary. And it recommended the policies it offered Mr D and G. So, it 
needed to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. And price  was one of 
the factors which it needed to consider when it recommended the policies. But this doesnt 
mean it had to offer the cheapest policy on the market, as it only had access  to a panel of 
insurers, not the whole market. Ive listened to the conversations Mr D had with QMT in 2015  
when he first agreed to go ahead  with the policy and the adviser he spoke to explained that 
QMT uses a panel of 16 insurers. The terms and conditions QMT sent to Mr D also 
explained it uses a panel of insurers, although  I accept this was in what many people  would 
describe as the small print. 
Its quite normal for a broker to make  a recommendation  based on what  it has available  from 
a panel of insurers. And provided the policy QMT  recommended was suitable  it fulfilled  its 
obligations under  the rules covering the sale of insurance. This was also the case  at renewal  
in 2016 and 2017, ie QMT  had to make a suitable recommendation from the policies it had 
available from its panel of insurers, as opposed  to offering the cheapest policy  available  in 
the market. Ive listened to recordings of the telephone conversations  Mr D had with QMT 
when his policies  came up for renewal in 2016  and 2017.
In 2016 Gs premium had gone up  partly because  Mr D had made a claim and Gs NCD 
had gone down to three  years. Mr D clearly  wasnt happy about  the fact the NCD  wasnt 
protected and complained about this. And, after this, he clearly wanted to pay less for the 
forthcoming year than what QMT was quoting. He said hed called a couple of other 
companies and theyd quoted him less. And in the end QMT offered him what  the adviser 
said was the best available and he agreed  to go ahead at this price.  And from what Ive seen 
and heard Im satisfied  QMT fulfilled  its obligations at this point, as it was right to say the 
premium had gone up because of a claim and it appears to have  offered  G the most suitable  
policy it had available  from its panel of insurers. The adviser  didnt mention specifically that 
QMT had a panel  of insurers and could only use these, but I think it was clear  from what she 
said that QMTs  options  were limited. And Mr D knew he could shop around,  as he told the 
adviser hed spoken to other companies. 
When Gs policy came up for renewal in 2017,  Mr D called and discussed the price with the 
adviser several times.  In the end, the adviser found  G a cheaper policy  at £3,000,  plus 
interest for paying  by instalments. And, I think it was clear from what the adviser  said that 
QMTs options were  again limited to the insurers it dealt with. And Mr D clearly knew  he 
could shop around, as he said hed been to two other brokers and he specifically mentioned 
one had quoted him £3,000 including the charge for paying by instalments. And he asked  
the adviser to match this. In the end the adviser agreed to provide the policy  at a premium of 
£2,900, plus £200.50 for paying  by instalments.  So, again, Im satisfied QMT fulfilled its 
obligations and Mr D knew he might  find cover at a lower  price if he went  to another  broker.  
In summary,  Im satisfied  that QMT fulfilled its obligations to Mr D and G when it set up the 
policy in 2015,  in 2016 and again when it arranged a new policy in 2017. I appreciate Mr D 
doesnt agree and he is adamant QMT  led him to believe it was giving him the best price in 
the market and that prices were high due to the fact hed had claims.  But  based on the call 
recordings Ive listened to - I dont  think this was the case. QMT made it clear it was offering  
G a suitable policy at the best price it had available and Mr D went ahead on this basis. So, I 
dont think it is appropriate for me to uphold this part of Gs complaint. 
When Mr D originally took out the policy,  QMTs  adviser also needed  to make sure he 
checked all Mr Ds demands  and needs  and provided Mr D with enough  information  for him 
Ref: DRN22436223to make an informed decision about  the policy. Ive listened to the sales call when Mr D took 
out the policy in 2015 and the adviser didnt check whether  Mr D wanted to protect  his NCD. 
And he didnt point out to him it wasnt protected.  Also, I think  the Statement of Fact QMT  
provided after Mr D agreed  to take out the policy was wrong. It suggested Mr D had been 
asked whether he wanted to protect his NCD and that hed answered no, when this wasnt 
the case. And I cant see the fact his NCD wasnt protected  was mentioned on any other  
document QMT sent to Mr D. So, I dont  think QMT  made it clear enough to Mr D that his 
NCD wasnt protected. 
Having said this, I dont  think G has lost out because  of this. Mr D has suggested he could 
have found a policy with another insurer under which he could  protect his NCD. But our 
research suggests  he wouldnt  have been able to find a motor trade policy on which he could 
protect the NCD, as he was bringing it across from a private  car policy.
Mr D has explained that if he couldnt  have used  it on a motor trade policy hed have  kept it 
for use on a private  car policy. This may be the case, but it means G hasnt lost out 
financially as a result  of QMTs failure to make it clear the NCD Mr D was bringing across 
couldnt be protected. Mr D has said hes lost out on a personal  level,  but the customer  
making the complaint about QMT is G and so I cant award compensation for Mr Ds 
personal losses. Therefore, as I dont think G has lost out as a result of QMTs  failing, its not 
appropriate for me to uphold this part of Gs complaint either. 
Overall, whilst I know having  spoken  to Mr D that he feels  very strongly that hes been  let 
down by QMT and it hasnt treated him and G fairly, I dont think  its appropriate for me to 
uphold either  part of his complaint based on QMTs obligations and his options if hed been 
told he couldnt protect his NCD if he used it on his motor trade policy  in 2015. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Gs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243622