K821x#15complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) with borrowing he took out at 
a well-known retail store  in 1996. Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) is 
responsible for answering Mr Ss complaint. 
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2019,  setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.  And  I asked both parties to provide any further  
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and FICL should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year from .
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN23327842my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  and require Financial Insurance  Company Limited to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23327843summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI)  with borrowing  he took out at a well-
known retail store  in 1996. Mr S was buying some electronic equipment at the time. The account  was 
branded with the name of a major retailer and the credit facility was provided by a high street  bank. 
But a company called Financial Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering  Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken out in the shop and added after Mr S signed a loan application form, most 
probably at the counter. Mr S says he doesnt recall agreeing to it or having  the PPI explained.  He 
says he didnt  want this type of cover.
Our adjudicator has assessed  this complaint and provided a view that it shouldnt  be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im considering upholding  Mr Ss complaint.
I was sent the agreement Mr S signed  when he took out the account and PPI. I can certainly see quite 
a few ways in which this form could  have been set out in a better  and clearer  way, not least because  
the PPI box was already  pre-selected with an X. However, its obviously possible that Mr S had 
agreed for the form to be printed out with the X on it as a result of a discussion that had taken place 
about what he wanted  to do. Weve  seen  a number of similar sales where this may have happened, 
so it could  have happened in this case too.  
FICL provided a non-advised sale and this means  it didnt need to make sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr Ss situation. But it still needed to provide  enough clear  information for Mr S to make an 
informed decision about the cover  and this is where I think FICL fell short  of its responsibilities.
The form didnt contain  very clear information about the PPI costs and I cant  see where the monthly 
or total premium  was set out for Mr S. And because it says those  choosing PPI will have the cost 
notified to them on their statement, it seems to me that consumers had to await their statement to 
find out how much they were  going to be charged for the cover.
Those being sold policies like this had a right to know how much they were  going  to have to pay for 
the cover.  I cant see anywhere that this was done  at the point of sale. However, if FICL wishes to 
point this out to me, or send in more  documents, Ill consider what  it has to say on the matter. 
Its for this reason that I think the policy may have been mis-sold.
what FICL should do to put things right
FICL should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI. The policy  should be 
cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and FICL should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN23327844Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
8% a year from .
If Mr S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am considering upholding Mr Ss complaint and directing Financial 
Insurance Company  Limited to pay compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept  or reject my 
decision before 1 March 2019
Ref: DRN2332784