K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained on behalf  of his business,  S, about not being  able to access  the 
business TSB Bank plc account.
background
In April 2018, TSB began  having problems with its IT systems. As a result  of these Mr A was 
unable to access the business account  online.  This meant  S couldnt make any transfers. 
Mr A has said he was also unable to withdraw  cash  from ATMs. S wasnt  able to pay its 
contractors on time and had to borrow funds to make these payments. Mr A made  multiple 
calls to TSB to try and resolve these problems.  
Our investigator thought Ss complaint  should  be upheld. She recommended  TSB pay £150  
compensation. Mr A didnt  think this was enough  and that TSB should  pay compensation in 
the region of £2,500.  Ss complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that, because S was able to explain the situation to its contractors the 
business didnt  actually lose any contracts, etc. So, fortunately,  the impact here is limited to 
the reputational damage caused by having to provide these explanations. Whilst this impact 
is no doubt something that TSB should compensate  S for, it would be difficult  to justify  the 
level of award requested.  
Mr A has also said that, whilst he had to call TSB many times to try and resolve things  for S, 
he did so whilst driving his lorry or on the way to work. So whilst I recognise that making  
these calls wouldve been inconvenient,  this inconvenience was minimised and doesnt 
seem to have significantly  impacted Ss ability to carry out its normal  functions. 
S did have  to borrow money to make payments. And I think it is reasonable for TSB to cover 
the cost of this. But this appears to be the only financial impact suffered  by S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, TSB Bank  plc 
should pay S £150 compensation and £45 for its financial loss. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before 14 March  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2579390