K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has handled a claim 
she made for an escape of water under her buildings insurance policy.
background
In January 2018 Mrs A returned from a holiday to find her home had been damaged by a 
water leak from a pipe in the kitchen. Lloyds accepted the claim and started works to dry out 
the property. In March  2018 Lloyds responded to a complaint made by Mrs A and she 
brought that complaint to our service. This has already been considered so this decision 
wont look at those  points  raised.
After March 2018, Mrs A made a further  complaint to Lloyds. Shed appointed a flooring 
specialist who said her parquet  flooring  needed  replacing, and felt Lloyds suggestion of only 
repairing the damage caused  by the leak wasnt sufficient. She also said some of Lloyds 
staff had acted arrogantly  when they attended a meeting at her home to discuss  the repair 
works needed.
Mrs A also asked to be reimbursed for some reports shed had carried  out, including  from a 
damp specialist. She wanted the cost of medical  reports to be covered as well as loss of 
earnings shed  suffered.  
Lloyds didnt agree  to cover a full replacement  of the parquet floor, and wanted the option to 
appoint its own expert,  once Mrs As report had been received. It agreed to pay £86 for 
reports Mrs A had carried out, including one for the flooring. But it didnt agree to cover the 
costs of the medical reports.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Lloyds to want to send  a flooring expert. She said 
Mrs As policy only covered her for damage  caused by the insured event; in this case the 
leak. So she said it was entitled  to check it wouldnt be offering to cover damage caused by 
a non-insured  event, such as wear and tear. She said Lloyds had contacted  others who 
worked for Lloyds who attended the meeting at Mrs As home but they couldnt  confirm 
Mrs As version of events.  So whilst she didnt disbelieve how Mrs A had felt, she didnt think  
Lloyds needed  to do anything to put this right. 
She didnt  think Lloyds needed to reimburse Mrs A for the medical  reports. But noted Lloyds 
had agreed to reimburse Mrs A £86 for reports which hadnt been  done, so Lloyds arranged  
for this payment to be made. 
Mrs A didnt agree with what  our investigator said. She said Lloyds told her it would cover 
the cost incurred for having the drying equipment in her property, but she hadnt  had this 
reimbursed. She also said she was owed £200 from Lloyds for storage of a stair lift. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been an ongoing claim, and the repairs to Mrs As property  are still 
ongoing when  this complaint was brought to our service. But I can only consider those 
issues which were addressed by Lloyds in June 2018. 
Ref: DRN24208312Ive reviewed Mrs As comments about the Lloyds staff who attended her property and their 
behaviour. Lloyds accept they were robust when necessary, but this was when  dealing  with  
Mrs As loss assessor, rather than Mrs A. So I dont think Lloyds actions have caused any 
unnecessary distress or inconvenience  to Mrs A directly that they need  to pay any 
compensation for.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds acted reasonably in not accepting the report  from      
Mrs As flooring specialist.  It said in its final response letter that it reserved the right to get a 
report from its own contractor before agreeing to cover all of the damage to the floor.
Based on the reports Ive seen Im satisfied this was reasonable. Under  Mrs As policy 
Lloyds will only cover damage caused by an insured event. It doesnt cover damage  that 
would have happened over a period of time due to wear and tear. And given the large  
amount of flooring that could potentially have been  affected, Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to want to carry out further assessments. 
Im aware that it recently came to light that Lloyds hadnt made a payment to Mrs A for costs 
it agreed to cover in June  2018. This includes £86 for two reports  she had carried out. It also 
agreed to cover the increased energy costs Mrs A had incurred when the driers were in her 
property. Mrs A provided this information  to Lloyds in 2018 but it seems  this was mis-placed 
and wasnt followed up. 
Our service has asked Mrs A if she can provide  her statements from the time, so that Lloyds 
can work out the amount  it needs  to pay. In the absence of Mrs As bills from the period, 
Lloyds has offered £250 for the additional  costs of operating the driers. It says this has been 
worked out based on how long the driers were in the property and its knowledge of similar 
costs for other claims. So this seems  a reasonable amount for Lloyds to pay. Mrs A has now 
provided some statements from around the period in question. So Lloyds should review  
these to work out the actual additional  cost to Mrs A. If Mrs A is owed more than £250 it 
should pay her the additional amount. If she isnt, Lloyds dont need  to do anything  more.
Ive already asked  Lloyds  to make a compensation payment  to Mrs A for the inconvenience  
its caused her in not reimbursing her the cost of the reports when it said it would. Lloyds has 
agreed to pay £50 compensation for this and I think this is reasonable given the amounts 
involved. 
Im aware Mrs A has said this claim has had a significant impact on her health and is still 
ongoing. In this decision Ive looked at the period from March  to June 2018. Im satisfied 
Lloyds doesnt  need to pay any compensation for any ill health  she suffered during that time 
because I dont think it treated Mrs A unfairly  during this period. 
I can only consider a complaint thats  brought to us after Lloyds has had the chance to 
investigate it first. So if Mrs A wants further issues from June 2018 to be looked  at they will 
need to be raised  separately with Lloyds in the first instance.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited need to pay Mrs A £50 
compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience it caused her.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
Ref: DRN24208313pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.1
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has already paid £250  for extra  electricity  costs 
incurred from running the drying equipment in her property. It has said it will review the 
statements provided by Mrs A. If Mrs A is owed more  than £250,  Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited will pay the additional amount to Mrs A. If she isnt, Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited wont need to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  Bank  General  Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must give Mrs A a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN2420831