K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains about AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschafts (AXA) settlement of her 
household removal  and storage insurance policy claim. My references  to AXA include its 
agents which includes the claim handlers.
background 
Miss Cs landlord needed her to move out of her home and the landlord arranged and paid 
for her items to go into storage. She complains  that when her items were returned from 
storage several  items had been damaged and other  items  were  missing/stolen.
Miss C claimed on the household removal and storage  insurance  policy  that she said her 
landlord took out on her behalf. The insurer is AXA. It offered Miss C £646  to settle the claim 
for her damaged items which she accepted.
Miss Cs complaint is that AXA offered  only £1,000 for her claim for the missing/stolen items 
which she says are worth in the region  of £43,000  including some valuable  pieces  of 
artwork. Miss C said AXA didnt believe her about the missing artwork and unfairly blamed 
her for not reporting the missing artwork quickly enough. She said the policy cover limit of 
£2,500 wasnt  enough for her items. Miss C is also very unhappy with how the removal  
business dealt  with her items and feels they called her a liar when she complained.
Our investigator explained why he was just looking at whether AXA had made  a fair offer to 
settle Miss Cs claim and not all the issues shed raised about the removal business and 
about the policy cover limit. 
Our investigator thought AXAs settlement had been fair but it had taken  too long to assess 
the claim.  He recommended AXA pay Miss C £200 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay and lack of updates in handling the claim.
AXA accepted our investigators  recommendation. Miss C didnt  and wants  an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Miss C has strong concerns about  how she was treated by the removal  business.  But our 
investigator correctly explained  that we only look into complaints against regulated firms 
carrying out a regulated  activity under the Financial Conduct Authority  rules.  That doesnt  
include removals and storage by removal businesses. Hes sent Miss C details  about  the 
Furniture Ombudsman which may be able to look at her complaint about the removal 
business.
Miss C has also said that before the items were stored she made  it clear  to the removal  
business that she had high value  items  and they assured her shed be covered. If Miss C 
was sold the policy she needs to complain  about  the sale to the business that sold the policy 
to her. From the evidence I have AXA wasnt responsible  for arranging the insurance or 
selling it to Miss C so thats not a matter  I can consider as part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28991652But I note Miss C has also said her landlord  bought the policy  to cover her items. If thats 
correct then she may want to make  a complaint to her landlord  that the cover it arranged  
wasnt enough for the value of her items. 
This decision is just about whether AXAs settlement of the claim and claims  handling were  
fair and reasonable. I think AXAs settlement was fair but it did delay in its claims handling. 
So I partly uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
the insured  cover  limit for household  removals and storage is £2,500  for any one 
customer and theres  a limit of £100 to any one item, pair or set
its a condition of the insurance that the sum insured represents the full total value of
Miss Cs property. If she fails to declare the full replacement  value  of her property, in 
the event of a claim shell only be entitled to recover from AXA the proportion  of the
loss as declared value bears to the total replacement value of your property. Thats 
the under insurance policy term
Miss C must give full details of any losses and/or  damages for removal  and storage 
in writing within 5 days after delivery  of the items.
About a month  after Miss Cs items were returned  to her she made a claim on the policy  
initially for damaged  items valued in the region of £1,000 and missing/stolen items valued  in 
the region of £3,000.  Miss C told AXA about her initial loss much  later than the five day limit 
detailed in the policy. But AXA didnt reject the initial claim on the basis  that it was too late 
and I think that was reasonable. Miss C had first contacted the removal  business who tried 
to repair  some items before she made a claim and she wouldnt have known the full details 
of loss until the repairs were carried out.
But it took Miss C about three months  before  she told AXA that artwork valued  at about 
£40,000 was also missing. Theres a dispute between  the parties as to whether Miss C 
proved she ever had artwork to that value.  But I dont  need to make  a decision about 
whether she did have the artwork as even if she did AXA fairly declined  the claim for those 
items for the following reasons.  
AXA says Miss C should have reasonably known that artwork, of such high value, was 
missing before three  months. Ive seen Miss Cs detailed responses  as to why she delayed  
in telling AXA about the missing artwork. But the key issue  is what  cover  the policy gives  and 
whether AXA applied those terms fairly.
Given the problems  Miss C has detailed about how the removal  business left her items I can 
understand why she may not have  reported the artwork missing within five days  of delivery, 
as the policy  requires. But I think AXA can reasonably to expect  a person who has made a 
claim for missing/stolen items to check through the remainder of their possessions  promptly 
to see if other items were also missing and that items of a high and/or sentimental  value 
would be a priority to look for. I think AXA fairly said Miss C was too late to report  the loss of 
the artwork.
Importantly, even if AXA hadnt said the claim for the missing artwork was too late the 
maximum the policy would pay out for any total claim is £2,500.  So if AXA had accepted the 
claim for missing artwork  it would only have  paid £2,500 in total, which  would have left 
Miss C with a substantial loss.
Ref: DRN28991653The under insurance  policy term says that all Miss Cs items  in storage shouldnt  be valued 
more than the £2,500  limit. When they are and a claim  is made AXA can pay a proportion of 
the loss incurred in line with the total value.  From what Miss C says the total value of her 
items in storage  was much greater  than the £2,500 limit. So I think  AXA fairly applied  the 
under insurance policy term. AXA had already paid £646  for the damaged items and the 
£1,000 additional offer for missing stolen items gave total settlement payment of £1,646.  
AXA believed this was a fair value  as it represented  about two thirds of the maximum cover  
of £2,500. I think that was a fair proportion in the circumstances.
AXA made a fair settlement of Miss C claim and doesnt need to make any further  payment 
for the missing/ stolen  items.
However AXA did delay  in handling the claim.  It looks as if there  was a three month  
unnecessary delay which could have been avoided. Miss C also chased AXA several  times  
for an update which AXA didnt provide. I think our investigators recommendation that AXA 
pay Miss L £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience caused by its delay and 
lack of updates is a reasonable  amount.  AXA has agreed to that payment.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part.
I require AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft  to pay Miss C £200 in compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience caused by its delays and lack of updates,  which its agreed to 
do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2899165