K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the sale in 1991 of a mortgage endowment policy  provided by 
the Prudential  Assurance Company Limited. They  say the policy  was mis-sold. They  make  a 
number of points.  The main one however is that they say they were not told about any 
possible shortfall and that they were also told they could expect a tax free surplus on 
maturity. As redress they would like compensation and a full refund  of the mis-sold financial 
product.
background
Mr and Mrs O complained  to the business through a representative. Their complaint was not 
upheld. In summary, the business said that there  was no reason to think  the policy was 
unsuitable at the time it was sold.
The business set out Mr and Mrs Os circumstances in 1991.  They  were both employed.  
Their earnings and borrowings were within normal ranges for the time. They had some 
savings and investments.  Broadly  the information collected by the business and produced 
here is what would be expected from the time. 
There was no record of any assessment of attitude  to risk (although  it was not a requirement 
to record any such assessment at the time). The business also considered the 
documentation provided and the fact that the policy would have been  thought  low risk at the 
time of the sale. Having  done that the business  thought the policy broadly suitable.
The representative said that at the time of the sale Mr and Mrs O had a repayment 
mortgage. They were  approached by the business  and persuaded to change to an 
endowment type mortgage. It says only the benefits  of doing so were  mentioned.  The 
business has reached unfair conclusions. It has assumed because Mr and Mrs O were  not 
first time buyers and that they have a modest amount of savings and investments that they 
understood what they were doing. Also the representative says, there is no evidence  that Mr 
and Mrs Os attitudes to risk were discussed.
Mr and Mrs O say they would never  take any risk with their mortgage as evidenced by the 
fact that they converted back to a repayment mortgage to guarantee it would be paid off.
Mr and Mrs O came  to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the file. She set out her view 
which was that she also thought that the policy was not obviously unsuitable. She said that 
for much the same reasons as those given by the business. As a result she was of the view 
the complaint  should not be upheld. Mr and Mrs O and their representative remain  unhappy 
and have asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  The file has been passed  to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I dont uphold the 
complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs O.
This all happened  now over 27 years ago. That will inevitably bring  its own problems. Any 
evidence (and it is perhaps  surprising there  is any) will be old, probably incomplete  and 
possibly contradictory.  Also the economic  environment has changed substantially since the 
Ref: DRN24266972sale. I must  test  this sale about what was known and expected at the time (in 1991) and 
not now. 
Policies like this were thought very safe at the time of the sale. They were performing very 
well indeed  and expected to continue to do so. It was an entirely reasonable expectation  that 
the policy would repay the mortgage and produce a surplus. The file produced by the 
business is what I would expect to see from the time. It is very difficult  for me to find that, 27 
years later, the advisor effectively misled Mr and Mrs O into taking out the policy  by failing to 
explain the risks involved.  
To put it another  way I am being asked to find that the advisor so overstressed the benefits 
and ignored the risks that the business  should  compensate Mr and Mrs O. Although I can 
see perfectly well what  Mr and Mrs O and their representative are saying, I have not seen 
enough to make me come to that conclusion and uphold this complaint.
I dont need to repeat Mr and Mrs Os circumstances here in any detail. However, having 
looked at those circumstances Mr and Mrs Os position is one which  at the time would  (I 
suspect)  have been thought ideally suited for this policy. They were both working, already 
had a mortgage and they had some limited  savings and investments.  Of course  none  of that 
means, of itself, that the policy was suitable or understood by Mr and Mrs O.
However it does in my view support the sale.  There are no obvious reasons why the sale 
would be unsuitable.  I understand Mrs O was on maternity leave at the time but other than 
that their circumstances do not suggest  to me the policy is unsuitable. I also understand that 
Mr and Mrs O say they are and always were risk averse-they wanted  a guaranteed 
mortgage. The difficulty is that is not reflected in the file. It is also more likely than not that 
there were warnings and opportunities for Mr and Mrs O to realise what  they were  taking out.
These are always very difficult  decisions  and it is clearly  possible the policy was mis-sold. 
However I do not find that, on balance, it was.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept  or reject  my decision  before 25 February 2019. 
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2426697