K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Tesco  Personal  Finance  PLC when 
his car insurance policy was due to renew.
background
In February 2018,  Tesco  sent Mr C a renewal notice giving details of the new policy  that was 
due to commence  in March 2018. Mr C wanted to discuss the policy  with Tesco  before 
deciding whether or not to go ahead  with it.
Mr C said that he tried contacting Tesco online but was constantly told that there  was a 
problem with their system.  He said he then tried to call but was kept waiting for half an hour 
before he hung  up. He then wrote  to Tesco on 7 March explaining the difficulties he had in 
contacting them.
Tesco wrote  to Mr C on 12 March asking  him to contact  them.  Mr C was unhappy that 
Tescos letter didnt  acknowledge  his letter of 7 March, nor did it address any of the issue  he 
raised. Mr C next wrote  to Tesco on 15 March  asking  them  to contact  him and he expressed 
his dissatisfaction  that Tesco didnt address his letter of 7 March.
On 20 March Tesco responded to Mr Cs complaint and accepted  their service could have 
been better.  They offered  Mr C £25 compensation in addition to their apology. But Mr C 
didnt think that went far enough so he brought his complaint  to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt that Tescos response to Mr Cs complaint 
was adequate, so he didnt recommend that Tesco should do anything  further. As Mr C 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr C, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Cs points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Tesco have dealt with Mr C in a fair and 
reasonable way.
There is no dispute that Tescos service  should have been better. And they have accepted 
that and upheld Mr Cs complaint. They  apologised  for sending  Mr C a generic letter  on 12 
March rather than addressing the issues in his letter of 7 March. But Tesco  said they did try 
phoning Mr C on 12 March before they wrote to him. And in relation to the time Mr C was 
kept on hold when he called, Tesco told us that due to the closure  of a number of their sites 
at the end of February 2018,  as a result of adverse  weather conditions, they suffered 
backlogs of two weeks. That had a direct  affect  on their services,  in particular it led to longer 
waiting times  for customers who called.
I think Tescos  apology  and offer of £25 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Their offer of compensation  is in line with the type of compensation our service awards for 
complaints of this seriousness. So Im not going  to ask Tesco to do anything further.
Ref: DRN23946912Finally, for the sake of completeness, I want to mention that in his view our adjudicator  
commented on the premium increase to Mr Cs policy. But Mr C has confirmed that he 
wasnt complaining  about that. It is for that reason I havent addressed the issue of the 
premium increase in my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2394691