K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that John Earnshaw  Independent  Financial Advisers Ltd (JE) provided  her 
with misleading  information resulting in her missing out on £1,000 cashback after she took 
out a mortgage through it.
background
Ms S took out a mortgage with a high street  bank  and this was arranged through JE, an 
independent financial  advisor and mortgage  broker. JE provided  Ms S with a number of 
quotes and she decided to proceed  with one of them. The product included  £1,000 cashback 
on completion of the mortgage.
Shortly after, JE advised Ms S that the lender had withdrawn the product. So JE offered 
Ms S two alternative products. She went ahead with one of these in the mistaken belief  it 
offered cashback.  JE didnt correct this confusion.  The mortgage  completed and it was only 
then that it became apparent the new product didnt offer cashback. So Ms S complained  to 
JE and said it should pay her the £1,000. Unhappy with JEs response, Ms S brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered Ms Ss complaint and said, in summary, she thought  the broker 
had provided Ms S with misleading  information about the availability of certain rates. But she 
said Ms S hadnt completed a full application  form in time to secure the rate and she didnt 
think that was JEs fault. 
Additionally she said JE had provided incorrect information about the availability of cashback 
on the rate Ms S took out. But even  in light of this, she said she wasnt able to ask JE to 
cover the £1,000 cashback. She calculated that, of the two alternative rates available, Ms S 
would have been a little better off taking  the other rate but wasnt  persuaded shed have 
taken this rate due to the upfront costs  involved.
She decided  the £199 broker fee JE had waived was suitable compensation for it to pay for 
the misleading information  and she didnt ask it to do anymore. 
Ms S wasnt happy with this and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the broadly the same reasons. Ill explain my 
reasoning.
did JE mislead Ms S?
When a business  gives misleading information to a consumer Im unlikely to ask the 
business to honour  an arrangement or deal that wouldnt have been available to the 
consumer. But I will consider the impact on the consumer  of the error in the light of what I 
think they would have done  had they been given the correct information.
In this case, Ms S was provided with illustrative mortgage figures by JE using information 
provided by a third party. This information  hadnt  been updated to reflect real time mortgage 
deals when it should have been. 
Ref: DRN22742862Ms S was attracted to a product  as it offered £1,000  cashback. She decided  to proceed with 
it but before she submitted a full application, the lender had withdrawn the deal. Its common 
for mortgage deals  to be changed or withdrawn without warning and theres  no obligation on 
lenders to give notice  to brokers  that they intend  to. So Im satisfied there was no way of JE 
predicting the withdrawal  of the first deal Ms S wanted. 
JE then offered  Ms S two alternative  deals. One had a significantly higher product fee of 
£999 that would have  wiped out the £1,000  cashback offer that came  with it. So Ms S 
discounted that one. She opted  instead  for the other deal, believing  it also included £1,000 
cashback. 
I note the mortgage  illustration and offer letter for this rate make no reference to any 
cashback deals  so Im satisfied it should  have been  clear that cashback wasnt available.  
However, confusion  arose when  Ms S emailed the broker to query what  money shed have 
left from the cashback  after shed paid the fees. Rather than reiterating to Ms S that 
cashback wasnt available on this rate, JE merely confirmed the details of her calculation.  
This reinforced her mistaken belief that this rate came with cashback. 
So, JE missed the opportunity to correct Ms S and in failing to do so, it misled  her.
what would  Ms S have  done, given the correct information?
Ive then gone on to consider what Ms S is likely to have done  if JE had corrected her 
assumption about the availability of cashback.
Having reviewed the email correspondence between Ms S and the brokers, its clear Ms S 
was very conscious of keeping costs down. I say this because she asked JE several  times to 
find her cheaper rates even after it had explained  alternatives werent available. She also 
checked multiple times about the rates she would have to pay to ensure there were no 
hidden or unexpected fees. 
Ultimately she rejected the rate that had the £999 product fee even though  JE told her it 
would be cheaper.  On the balance of probabilities  I therefore think  its more likely  than not 
Ms S would  have still opted for the rate she chose even if shed known it didnt  offer 
cashback as it kept the upfront costs to a minimum and that seemed a key part of her 
decision making criteria.
Ms Ss alternative scenarios
Ms S says if shed known  this product didnt include cashback she may have obtained a 
cheaper deal from another lender or she may have delayed the property  purchase  until a 
better deal became available.
I note that JE informed  Ms S a number of times during the application process that this 
lender was the only one which was willing to offer her a mortgage as she didnt meet  the 
criteria of any other mortgage provider. JE also confirmed there were  no better deals 
available to her at the time. On balance,  I think its more likely than not she wouldnt have 
obtained a cheaper deal at the time.
Ms S was buying  a new build property and confirmed to JE she had been waiting for it for 
approximately nine months and wanted to go ahead soon. Ms S said in one of her emails  
to JE that she doesnt believe that the vendors would  wait for her to get a better deal.
Ref: DRN22742863Given what Ive said above about  the limited alternative sources  of mortgage finance and 
Ms Ss comments to JE, I think its more likely than not that Ms S would still have gone 
ahead with the property purchase   and therefore taken this deal - and not waited for 
alternative deal for fear of losing the property.  
did Ms S suffer a financial loss?
Ive then gone on to consider if Ms S actually experienced a financial loss by considering the 
two different options  available to her at the time. Our investigator looked  at the different rates  
available and made a number of calculations comparing the two rates. She initially 
concluded that Ms Ss rate was cheaper  over the five year fixed  term. 
Having revisited these calculations she realised that shed used the wrong  interest rate on 
one of the products. This meant that the rate Ms S took was actually a little more expensive 
over the five year fixed period.
But as Ive explained above,  I think its more  likely  than not Ms S wouldnt have been willing 
to pay the £999 product fee on the alternative rate and so would have still completed the 
mortgage on the rate with lower fees.
Ms S has said that she planned to pay the mortgage off sooner and she says this is likely  to 
have affected  the position. My role here is to focus on what  actually happened rather  than 
what may happen in the future  so I wont be considering this in my decision. 
So, in summary,  I think JE did provide Ms S with incorrect information  about the cashback. 
But I think on the balance  of probabilities she would have still gone ahead  with this deal 
anyway for the reasons Ive explained above.  
I think JEs offer to waive the £199 broker fee is a fair and reasonable way for it to recognise 
the impact of the incorrect information it supplied. I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2274286