K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about how Bridgend Lifesavers Credit Union Limited (the Union)  was
approaching him for repayment of a loan he had with them. Mr B said he was unhappy with 
the Union  because:
He didnt think the Union should  have come to his home  when he already had a 
repayment plan in place.
No one told him that someone from the Union could come  to his home  without telling 
him.
The person  saying they were  from the Union  didnt provide him with any identification 
and discussed  his personal information in the street.
The representative from the Union was rude and intimidating, and they made a 
homophobic comment to him.
Mr B said all of this severely impacted his mental health.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  can be found at the bottom of 
this decision and form part of this final decision.  
In summary,  I thought  this complaint should be upheld. While I couldnt say for certain  what  
words were  exchanged when the Unions representative visited  Mr Bs home, I thought that, in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint, the Union  shouldnt have sent someone to Mr 
Bs house without  letting  him know this was going to happen. I thought that sending  someone 
unannounced to Mr Bs home had a significant  impact on his mental  health.  
Mr B didnt agree with parts  of my provisional decision. Ive summarised  his main points 
below:
He says he wasnt having problems paying his loan and that he had £800 in his other  
account with the Union. The monthly  loan repayments were being collected  from this 
other account. Mr B accepts he may have  missed  a couple of payments  but said he 
made arrangements to pay this via the online portal.
Mr B maintains that homophobic comments were made to him by the representative of 
the Union. The representative who visited Mr Bs home is no longer employed by the 
Union. However, the Union  has provided me with copies  of incident logs recording 
what the representative told his manager about  the incident after vising Mr Bs home 
on the day in question. Mr B says I should not have regard to this evidence  because 
the representative no longer works  for the Union and so it has not been possible for 
me to contact the representative directly about  the incident. Mr B is unhappy that I 
havent made a finding on the comments that were  made towards him.
Mr B believes that the Union have breached the credit agreement.  And he no longer 
wants contact with the Union. 
Ref: DRN23790022The Union spoke  to our investigator  on 25 March  2020 and said it didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. It said it would send more  information to support the reason for this within 
five days. On 6 April 2020 our investigator emailed  the Union to chase its response to the 
provisional decision and gave a new deadline until the end of that week.  Our investigator then 
emailed the Union again on 15 April 2020 chasing  a response and the Union responded to ask 
for an extension until 20 April 2020.  Despite extending the deadline for the Union to respond, I 
still havent received  the additional information it says it wanted me to consider. Because  of 
this, I have used  the telephone call it had with our investigator to understand the reasons it 
didnt agree. I have  summarised these below:
It believes Ive decided that it shouldnt go to its vulnerable  customers homes to 
discuss their loans.  
It believes my provisional decision implies that it can no longer operate  in the same 
way it does currently, and that Ive decided  that it cant  chase debt from vulnerable 
customers.
It believes it did the right thing by sending a representative to discuss  the loan. The 
other option would  have  been to chase the outstanding money through  the courts.  
It made every effort to contact Mr B by telephone to chase the debt. But he changed 
his number many times.  And so, it says it wasnt able to get in touch with him. 
The Union says it wasnt  aware until March 2019 (after  the February 2019 home visit) 
that Mr Bs mental health conditions made him prone to being  violent  and that he 
needed a support  worker. The Union says Mr B has been  to the office on numerous  
occasions without  a support worker. 
Ive taken the points from both parties  into account when coming to my final decision.
my findings
I have again reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen and been told, I 
am upholding this complaint for much  of the same reasons as outlined in my provisional 
decision. But Ive also addressed the further points  raised by both parties  below.
the outstanding debt
As it stands today, Mr B still has an outstanding debt with the Union for a loan of which  hes 
had the benefit. Both parties  will need  to come to an agreement as to how this is repaid. Mr B 
has said he believes the Union have breached its credit agreement and he doesnt want to 
communicate with the Union anymore.  
While I appreciate Mr B may not want to be in contact with the Union anymore, he could  ask a 
support worker, friend or family member to represent him in order to come to an agreement  
regarding the repayment of the loan. 
Mr B made his loan repayments through his share account with the Union. And the regular 
loan repayments  were £71. 
Mr B accepts he may have missed  some repayment instalments, but believes he had an 
arrangement with the Union to make up those  payments. He says he did so by using the the 
Unions online portal. Mr B says that at the point in which  the Union visited  his home, his 
repayments were up to date in line with the arrangement he had made.
Ref: DRN23790023Having looked  at the information provided by the Union, I can see that Mr B missed  several  
payments since July 2017. The Union  took some payments from Mr Bs share  account  as the 
terms and conditions allow it to. 
The last loan payment taken from the share account  was in November 2018. This payment 
put the share account into debt of £132.97. An agreement was then made on 4 December 
2018 (as evidenced by email correspondence  Ive seen  between the Union and Mr B) that Mr 
B would increase his monthly  payments  to £90 a month in order to clear the arrears on the 
loan account.  However,  no payment to the loan was made in December 2018. On 27 January 
2019, £90 was paid to the share account  and on 28 January  2019  a payment of £75 was 
made to the share account. These payments cleared the debt on the share account but didnt 
clear the arrears on the loan account and fell short of what Mr B had agreed to do. So, Mr B 
was still behind with his payments when the Union  representative visited  Mr Bs home in 
February 2019.
It is for the reasons Ive explained that I think the Union were entitled  to take steps  to recover 
the debt Mr B owed.  
what happened at Mr Bs property.
Mr B is unhappy that I havent made  a finding as to what happened at his property. My 
provisional decision was that I didnt feel I needed  to make a finding on this point, because I 
was upholding  the complaint for a different  reason. Mr B would like me to make  a finding on 
this point. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that as I wasnt at the incident its hard for me to be 
sure what  was said or to know what happened. For me to be able to make a finding that the 
Unions representative  did something  wrong, I need  to think it more  likely than not, based  on 
the evidence I have, that the Union representative was homophobic towards  Mr B and acted 
inappropriately. 
Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive considered  everything he has said about the incident and 
have used the information he has provided me about the incident as evidence. But I must also 
consider what the Union has said too. 
The Union has given  me an incident log which appears to be a contemporaneous statement 
by the representative to his manager. In summary,  the note states that the representative went  
to Mr Bs home  to discuss the loan arrears.  It says that Mr B became very abusive when the 
representative introduced himself.  Mr B then started shouting, swearing, using further  abusive  
language and threatened the representative  with violence. The representative says that Mr B 
was very threatening towards him and so he left the property. 
The representative involved  no longer works at the Union, and so it isnt possible for me to get 
a direct statement  from this person  but this doesnt mean I should disregard the notes the 
Union has sent to me, especially as they appear to be a contemporaneous note of what  the 
representative told his manager. While I agree it is unfortunate the representative no longer 
works for the Union, I dont draw  anything negative from this; simply because  the 
representative is no longer with the Union doesnt  in and of itself mean  that I cannot have 
regard to the incident notes. 
Ref: DRN23790024The Union has told us that the representative was highly trained and experienced as a 
customer service  representative. The representative had worked for the Union for more than a 
year and had made many  home visits during this time.  The Union has told us that feedback it 
received from its other customers, about the representative, had been positive. 
I have also considered everything Mr B has told me. Mr B has been consistent throughout that 
the representative made a homophobic comment towards him. And I think his actions  after the 
incident, calling the Union  to make a complaint, are consistent with Mr Bs version  of events.
Before coming to my provisional decision on this complaint, I asked Mr B for a more  detailed 
account of the incident. I asked for this to get a better understanding  of exactly  what  happened 
at the time. Mr B responded to my request  to say that he didnt want  to go over the details 
because he found  it upsetting. This is understandable. But it leaves me with less specific  
information about Mr Bs version of events. 
I dont doubt that Mr B feels strongly that a homophobic remark was made.  But Ive also borne 
in mind that Mr B could  have misheard or misunderstood what  the representative said to him  
especially in the midst  of what seems to have been a heated exchange. Mr B has also said 
that the remark was made towards  him when the representative was walking away  from the 
property.
This hasnt  been  an easy point  to make a finding  on. Theres no documentary  evidence to 
support what either party has said. Im satisfied that there was a heated  exchange  as both 
parties agree this took place  and also believe that Mr B thinks  the representative made a 
homophobic comment towards him. But, as noted  above, Mr B also says the comment was 
made as the representative was walking away, so its possible it was not heard as clearly  as it 
could have been. 
On balance, and based on what I have seen,  I am not able to find that the Union 
representative made a homophobic towards  Mr B. I havent seen  anything  to suggest  that this 
has happened before  and with such a serious allegation  I would  need  to see more information 
from Mr B about what happened. And in any event, as Ive explained, Mr B says the comment 
was made  while  the representative was walking away from the property and during  a heated 
exchange. So, I think it more likely  that Mr B may have misheard or misunderstood what  the 
representative said. 
Mr B has also said that the representative  didnt show their identification and discussed his 
personal information in the street. Again, Mr B hasnt given me very detailed  information about 
this. And he hasnt specified  what personal  information the representative disclosed in the 
street. The Unions incident  note states that Mr B became  abusive  and threatening as soon as 
the representative introduced himself. So I think it likely the representative didnt get the 
opportunity to show his identification badge.  For these reasons, I cant  say the Union has done  
anything wrong  here. 
should the Union have  sent someone to Mr Bs property to discuss  the loan?
The Union feel strongly about this point.  Most  of the points it has raised have  been  covered in 
my provisional decision. And it hasnt raised  anything new for me to consider. So, Im 
upholding this complaint for the same  reasons as I have in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN23790025Id like to make it clear to the Union, that this decision isnt about its internal processes or how 
it goes about collecting debt. In my provisional  decision, I made  it clear  that the Union are 
entitled to collect  outstanding debt from its customers, and I also said that I recognised  that for 
some vulnerable customers,  a home  visit might  be the best and most suitable option.  This 
decision is about what happened in Mr Bs individual case  and whether it was fair for The 
Union to go to Mr Bs home, without prior warning,  given what  it knew about his 
circumstances. For the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think 
this was the right thing  to do. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I must make it clear  that, as the ombudsman, I cannot make  a finding of discrimination or 
other unlawful act under  the Equality Act 2010.  Only the courts  can do this. My task is to 
decide if the Union has acted fairly and reasonably  in particular, whether, in all the 
circumstances, it acted  fairly by having  its representative visit Mr B at home  to discuss  the 
loan repayments  without giving him any prior notice  that it was proposing  to do so. 
Mr B was suffering from a recurring  condition that had lasted more  than 12 months. The 
condition was having a substantial adverse effect  on his day to day life. Ive seen information 
from a medical practitioner  that states Mr Bs long-standing conditions means that he can 
present dangerous/unpredictable challenging behaviours and is a risk when engaging with 
other/public. He especially needs  help when communicating with people face-to-face   and 
that he requires  support  from a specialist when doing so. Mr B has also told us that because  
of his condition  he can struggle to communicate over the phone and can become distressed. 
So, with the above in mind, Mr B appears  to fit the definition of disabled as defined by the 
Equality Act 2010. 
Based on what the Union knew  about  Mr Bs condition before February 2019, I think it ought  to 
have checked  that a home visit would be okay  prior to the visit taking place. At the point of 
the visit, the Union knew  about Mr Bs condition as hed told it about this on two separate loan 
application forms. 
Mr B also told the Union in the 2016 and 2017 applications that his condition was in 
remission and under  control. The Union says it wasnt  aware of how serious Mr Bs illness 
was until it received a letter from his GP after the home visit.
While Mr B had stated  that his illness was under  control on the loan applications,  the Union 
had been made aware of Mr Bs condition. The type of condition he has is ongoing. Because  
hed told the Union about his on his loan applications and next to where the loan application  
stated I am not in good health the Union should, acting fairly, have done more  to check  Mr B 
was comfortable  with a home visit.
There wasnt anywhere on the loan application that gave the option for Mr B to provide more  
information about his condition or how best to communicate with him in light of this condition. 
Had the Union asked more questions here, I think Mr B would have had the opportunity to let it 
know that a home visit wouldnt  be acceptable.  Mr B has told us that had he been aware that 
someone would be visiting his property he would have let the Union know that this wouldnt 
have been appropriate for his needs.
Ref: DRN23790026The Union has sent me the terms and conditions relating to Mr Bs account. As Ive explained 
in my provisional decision,  there  is nothing in these terms and conditions that suggests it 
would carry out home  visits  to discuss the debt if it wasnt being  repaid in line with the terms 
and conditions. 
The Union say that when a loan is in arrears it is its normal procedure to send a representative 
to a persons home to discuss repayment  options and to see if it can offer assistance in 
helping a person to repay the loan. While I dont doubt this, it still needs to consider whether a 
home visit, especially  an unannounced  one, is appropriate based on what it knows  about a 
customer. 
The Union says that it attempted to call Mr B on lots of occasions with no success.  Its also 
said Mr B changed his number multiple times  so getting in touch with him on the phone was 
difficult. I dont doubt this. But Mr B had been  communicating with the Union by email, and so 
it could have used  this method of communication to get in touch with him. And to let him know  
of its intentions to send someone to his home to discuss  the outstanding debt. I consider that, 
acting fairly,  this is what the Union should have done. 
The Union says Mr B has been to its office  on several occasions without a support worker.  
This might well be the case,  and again I dont  dispute this. But when Mr B attends the office,  
this is likely to be days when he feels well enough  and when he chooses  to. This point 
doesnt change  what Ive said about  Mr Bs condition  or undermine what I know  about Mr Bs 
condition. It simply  says that on the days he went into the office he felt okay  to do so. And this 
is very different to sending someone  to Mr Bs home unannounced without giving him the 
option to prepare for the visit.  
I appreciate the Unions  point that it felt the fairest way to collect  the debt Mr B owed was to go 
to his home to discuss things further. Its said the other option would be to chase the debt 
through court. And as Ive said before, I dont think theres anything  wrong  with the Union 
going to someones  home to discuss the debt, but in Mr Bs case, given his circumstances and 
what the Union knew about Mr B, I think it should  have let him know  its intentions  to do this 
before going to his home unannounced.
Im still of the opinion  that by sending a representative to Mr Bs home without letting him know 
it was going to beforehand caused  him much  upset and distress.  Mr B has told us that this 
visit exacerbated his medical condition and left him very distressed. And so, Im ordering the 
Union to pay Mr B £500 in compensation.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Bridgend Lifesavers Credit Union  Limited  should  put things right by paying Mr B £500 to 
reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused  him. If Mr B accepts  this decision, this 
payment should  be made within 28 days of him accepting. If Bridgend  Lifesavers Credit Union 
Limited doesnt make a payment to Mr B within the time frame  then it should also pay him 8% 
simple interest on the £500 from the 29th day after acceptance until the date the payment is 
made. And I would remind Mr B to engage with Bridgend  Lifesavers Credit Union Limited 
about the outstanding  balance on his loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Ref: DRN23790027Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23790028copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains about how Bridgend Lifesavers Credit Union Limited (the Union) was
approaching him for repayment of a loan he had with them. In particular, Mr B said he was unhappy  
with Union  because:
He didnt  think Union should have come to his home when he already  had a repayment plan in 
place.
No one told him that someone from Union  could come to his home  without  telling him.
The person saying they were from Union didnt  provide him with any identification  and 
discussed his personal information in the street.
The representative from Union was rude and intimidating, and they made a homophobic 
comment to him.
Mr B said all of this severely impacted his mental health.
background
In July 2017,  Mr B took out a loan with the Union for £2000.  The repayment amount was £71 per 
month. In 2018, Mr B fell into arrears on his loan account.  He says he set up a repayment plan with the 
Union.
Mr B didnt keep to the arrangement of the repayment plan and so the Union sent a representative  to Mr 
Bs home  to discuss the loan.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She thought  that, based on the information 
she had, she thought it more likely that the Unions  representative made a homophobic remark  towards 
Mr B. However, she thought the Union was reasonable to send someone to Mr Bs property to discuss 
the loan.
The Union didnt agree with our investigators assessment, and made the following points:
The loan account  was in arrears and payments  towards the loan had become erratic.
Mr B was verbally abusive towards its representative when he knocked on the door. The 
representative was threatened with physical violence. It says its representative  wasnt rude or 
abusive towards Mr B.
Mr B contacted the Union by phone after the incident. The Union says he was shouting and 
being abusive during  the call.
The Union says that it wouldnt have  sent anyone to Mr Bs address  if it had been aware  that Mr 
B shouldnt  be approached without a care worker.
Because the Union didnt agree with our investigator, the case  has been passed  to me t make a 
decision on the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint, but as 
Ive already said, this is for different reasons  to our investigator.
Mr Bs main  complaint is about what happened when the Union representative went to his home  to 
discuss the loan. He says the representative discussed his personal  information in the street, wouldnt 
show his ID badge,  was rude, intimidating and made a homophobic comment  towards him.
Ref: DRN23790029Ive seen a copy of the call note from when  the representative contacted  the Union after the meeting. 
This says that Mr B was verbally abusive and threatened the representative with physical violence.  
Because of this, the notes say, the representative left the property.  The Union have said its 
representative didnt make any inappropriate comments towards Mr B. 
Both parties feel very strongly about their version of events from this day  and this isnt surprising  
given the sensitive nature of the allegations. Its clear to me that whatever happened on this day, the 
exchange between Mr B and the Union representative  wasnt positive.
I wasnt there on the day, so I hope both parties can appreciate that its difficult for me to know exactly  
what happened. Theres very little information available  from either party that supports their respective  
version of events. And so, for this reason,  I dont  think  it would be fair for me to make a finding on what 
did or didnt  happen. Id like to make  it clear that Im not saying I believe or disbelieve  either  party, Im 
simply saying that there isnt enough information for me to conclude  on this point. And given the other 
information available  to me, I dont think I need to.
Theres no dispute over the fact that Mr B owed money on the loan and didnt keep up with the agreed 
repayment. Mr B says he had an arrangement with the Union, but based on the loan statements  Ive 
seen, it doesnt look to me as though Mr B kept up with the repayments  for this.
And when  an account  falls into arrears, the Union  is within its rights to attempt to recover the 
outstanding balance. I also cant ignore that Mr B has had the benefit  of this money. What I need to 
think about is whether the Union treated Mr B fairly in the way it was approaching him to recover the 
loan.
Before sending  a representative to Mr Bs property, the Union has told us it made  several  unsuccessful 
attempts to discuss the loan with Mr B over the phone. Ive seen two letters the Union sent to Mr B 
about the arrears, sent to him in November  2018 as well as email correspondence between the parties  
from December 2018. Theres nothing  in these communications that has given  me concern in terms of 
how the Union was approaching  Mr B about the loan.  And I would note at this point that the exchange  
of emails demonstrates Mr B was engaging with the Union about  his account. Neither  the letters or the 
emails mentioned that if Mr B didnt keep up with his repayments then it might send someone to his 
home to discuss the loan.
In February 2019, the Union sent one of its representatives  to Mr Bs home address.  But, based on 
what the Union ought to have known  about Mr Bs circumstances, I think  it should have let Mr B know 
that it intended  to send someone  to his address  before it did. And given  Mr Bs submissions to the 
Union up to this point, I think they couldve been more aware and sensitive to Mr Bs challenges and 
how an unannounced visit to his home could  impact on him.
At the time of sending the Union representative  to Mr Bs house  it doesnt appear that Mr B had been 
given any notice that this is something  which  could  happen if he didnt respond in particular ways with 
the Union. And Im also mindful that the Union would have  had the following information  about Mr B 
available to them and at their disposal which  could  have alerted them to the fact that Mr B was a 
vulnerable person who needed additional support when dealing with his account:
Loan  application from 2016 stating his condition.
Loan  application from 2017 stating his condition.
An email from 2018 stating that his mother had passed  away.
Both applications have a statement which says.  I am not in good health and my medical  condition is. 
On both applications, Mr B has said he suffers with a mental  health condition,  which  is also a recurring 
condition. Both applications  also suggest that the condition is being managed. But clearly Mr B thought  
his condition was serious enough to disclose this on the application, and he wrote this next to the 
statement confirming his health wasnt good. There wasnt  anywhere else on the form about different 
needs or preferences, and so there  wasnt  any other place  where Mr B could have provided more  detail 
to the Union  about what would help him when communicating. In my opinion, the Union ought to have  
been aware  at this point that Mr B could potentially  be a vulnerable person.
Ref: DRN237900210In addition to this, Mr B let the Union know that the reason  for the arrears on the loan was because his 
mother has passed away, and he was helping  to pay for the funeral  costs. Im sure it must have been a 
very upsetting  and difficult time for Mr B. And I imagine  this likely to have further impacted  on his mental  
health.
The Union has told me that it followed its normal  process when sending someone round  to Mr Bs home  
to discuss the loan.  Its also told me that it has other consumers that are in a similar  position to Mr B, 
and home  visits havent been a problem before. To be clear, my decision  is not to say whether  or not 
carrying out a home visit is inappropriate for vulnerable consumers, and I do recognise that in some 
cases that may be the right way for a business to communicate with a vulnerable  customer. However,  
whats important for me to consider here, is in Mr Bs circumstances did the Union  recognise and take 
reasonable steps  or make reasonable  adjustments as required under equality  laws to help and support 
Mr B with the situation  he had found  himself in, given I believe the Union was more likely than not 
aware Mr B was vulnerable.
Ive looked at everything  the Union has sent me. I havent seen anything  in its terms and conditions, 
loan applications, arrears letters,  call notes or emails that suggest  or give prior warning  to Mr B that 
someone might visit him to discuss the loan.  So while  Im not saying it was wrong of the Union to send 
someone to Mr B  after all it still needs to recover the outstanding debt,  I think  it should have  let him 
know its intentions beforehand, and in a way that would have been clear to him. This could have given 
Mr B the opportunity to do what he needed to do in order to prepare  for the visit. Which  could have 
potentially prevented the events that followed  at Mr Bs home.
The home  visit appears to have had a significant impact  had on Mr B. Hes told us the visit made him 
feel very anxious, vulnerable  and intimidated. Hes also said he was scared that the representative 
would come back to his property.  I think  this is supported by the phone call Mr B made to the Union 
after the representative had left his property. The Union say that Mr B was abusive and upset, but I 
think this is likely to be as a direct result of the unexpected visit.
I appreciate the Unions comments, in that it wasnt aware  of how vulnerable Mr B was until after the 
event. And I believe what it says when  it tells us that it wouldnt have sent someone to his home, if it 
had been aware that Mr B should be accompanied by a support worker. But based on what Ive seen,  I 
think the Union knew enough about Mr Bs mental health for it to have checked with him that a visit from 
a representative would be okay.  I can understand from Mr Bs point of view,  that an unexpected  visit to 
his home to discuss loan arrears might have felt quite intimidating.
Mr B has sent me a report from a medical practitioner to give me more information about his illness.  
The report comments  generally on Mr Bs well-being. Its clear from the report that Mr B is struggling  
with day-to-day tasks and becomes very anxious in a lot of everyday situations hes faced with. Based  
on what both Mr B and the Union has told us, Mr B displayed emotions of upset, anxiety and distress 
after the incident. This could have been prevented if the Union had checked that Mr B was comfortable 
in someone going to his home. Given  the upset  caused  to Mr B, Im currently minded to order the Union 
to pay £500 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress the visit has caused him.
Id like to make it clear to the Union, Im not suggesting that it changes its business  processes. This isnt 
for me to decide.  Im simply  looking into the individual circumstances of the complaint Mr B has brought 
to our service.
In relation to the debt itself,  Mr B will need to get in touch with the Union to come to an agreement about  
how the remaining balance on the loan is paid.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint.  And the Union
should pay Mr B £500 to compensate him.
Ref: DRN2379002