K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that waiver of premium benefit  was added to his personal pension plan with 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L & G). He says he didnt agree to it and his 
signature was forged  on the application  form. 
background
Mr M took out a pension  plan with L & G in 1990. He met with L & G again in May 2000  to 
review his financial circumstances.  Following the meeting,  Mr Ms monthly  contribution to his 
personal pension  was increased  and waiver of premium benefit was added to his policy. 
In October  2018, Mr M complained to L & G. He raised a couple of concerns, the main being  
that he hadnt agreed for waiver of premium benefit to be added to his pension.  And he 
requested a copy of the application  showing that hed signed to take the benefit out. 
L & G reviewed the complaint  but it didnt think it had done  anything  wrong. In summary it 
said that Mr M had signed to say that he agreed to take the waiver of premium benefit. It 
provided Mr M with a copy of the application, along with a copy  of the recommendation letter 
that was issued after the advice meeting.  It also provided a copy  of a letter  issued a few 
weeks after the meeting once the changes to his pension had been made. L & G also 
explained that Mr M had called  it in 2002  to discuss  the waiver of premium benefit and it 
provided a copy of a letter  that was issued after this call. 
Mr M disagreed with the outcome  of L & Gs investigation so he referred the matter  to this 
service for an independent  review. He said that waiver of premium  benefit was not a product  
that he would ever have  taken out. And he said that the signature on the application  form 
from 2000 wasnt his. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but she didnt  think L & G had done  
anything wrong. She explained that she wasnt a hand-writing expert so she wouldnt 
comment on whether the signatures were the same. But looking at the forms that were filled 
in and signed, she didnt believe that L&G acted  unfairly or that its adviser  did anything 
wrong. The investigator also felt that as Mr M hadnt taken any action  after he queried  the 
waiver of premium benefit in 2002, he was happy for it to be attached to the pension. 
The investigator also confirmed that the benefit wouldve covered Mr M even though he was 
self-employed. So she didnt think the plan had been  mis-sold.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator so the matter  has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, as there is here, I weigh up the evidence 
and make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, what I consider most 
likely to have happened. 
Ref: DRN25369202I accept that its possible  Mr M didnt agree to take the waiver of premium benefit. On the 
other hand, its possible that he chose to take it, and simply doesnt recall  that element of the 
conversation. Given that the sale took place  19 years  ago, and recollections  fade with time, it 
wouldnt be surprising if that were the case. 
Mr M says he didnt  sign the application  form agreeing to waiver  of premium and he believes 
his signature was forged. The application  form is actually signed  three  times, once to confirm 
agreement to the application,  once  for the direct debit instruction and again  to confirm the 
start date of the changes.  Im not a forensic  handwriting expert and cant say whether  the 
form was signed  by Mr M or someone else. But its clear that L & G believed  that Mr M had 
agreed to the instruction at the time. And Mr Ms bank also accepted the direct debit 
instruction, which  contained  the same signature. This suggests to me that his bank didnt 
have any concerns about the signature  provided on the form.  
Im also conscious that before the waiver of premium was added to the pension, the adviser 
wrote to Mr M to confirm  her recommendations. This letter explained that waiver  of premium 
had been recommended.  And L & G also wrote again to confirm  that it had been  added to 
the pension. If Mr M hadnt agreed to the benefit  being added,  I wouldve expected him to 
raise this at this time.  
Mr M has acknowledged that he called L & G to discuss the waiver of premium  in 2002. But 
again no action  was taken at this time to either  cancel or complain to L & G that it had been  
added without his consent or knowledge. 
Overall, having weighed everything  up, I appreciate that Mr M may not now recall  agreeing  
to the waiver of premium  benefit. But I think its most likely that he agreed to it at the time of 
the sale. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr M but I wont be asking L & G to take any action  with regards to 
his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2536920