K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Miss G has complained that Madison  CF UK Limited provided her with a loan 
that she wasnt able to afford. 
background
In July 2017 Madison provided  Miss G with a loan for £3,500 repayable  over two years.  It 
was a high interest  loan with an interest rate of 169.9% APR.  The total charge for the credit 
was £4,515.52, which meant the total amount  repayable by Miss G for the £3,500 she was 
borrowing, was £8,015.52. The monthly repayments were £333.98. 
Miss G applied  for the loan online.  The information she provided to Madison shows  that she 
was working full time and had an income  of £1,000 a month. She lived with her parents. Her 
outgoings were  recorded  as £150 a month for food and loan repayments She also paid £90 
a month  for insurance. After the online application  was made,  Madison  telephoned Miss G to 
confirm the details of the loan. It also asked her if she thought the loan was affordable.  She 
answered that it was.
In its response to Miss Gs complaint,  Madison said the loan was taken out to consolidate 
loans. It said it carried out industry  standard verification checks to validate the information 
provided on the loan application. It believed it had correctly approved  her loan application.
Miss Gs concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. He thought the results  of 
the checks Madison  carried out, showed that Miss Gs monthly credit commitments  were 
higher than she told it. This should  have been  factored into the decision to lend. He didnt  
think the loan was sustainable  as she would have to dedicate  more than a third of her 
monthly income to this loan alone.  He didnt think she would be able to meet her existing 
commitments without  having to borrow again.  So, it was unlikely  she would be able to 
sustainably meet her monthly repayments  for this loan. 
Madison didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment. It referred to calculators it had used 
and the review from Miss Gs credit  file. It said that showed Miss G used the funds to settle  
all active loans on her credit  file at that time.  It said the loans were  settled that same  day the 
funds were provided. And it went on to say that it didnt  accept the figures provided by 
Miss G regarding  her expenditure.
As Madison didnt  agree with the adjudicators assessment, the case was passed to me for 
review. I issued my provisional  decision on 12 February 2021. I explained that whilst I didnt 
think Madison had carried out reasonable  and proportionate checks in Miss Gs case, I did 
think the loan was affordable for her. 
In response, Miss G explained  why she didnt  agree  with my provisional  decision. In 
summary she said:
At the time the loan was provided  she was a student working on a summer break. Her 
income was reduced when she returned  to university.  
She wasnt asked for her payslips or bank statements and her credit  file wasnt  checked.
She did pay off the payday loans, but the loan became unaffordable as she had to 
reduce her hours and work part time.  
Ref: DRN22750952She was in a cycle of pay day loans and complaints she had filed about other 
businesses had ben upheld. If checks had been  carried out, it would have been  seen  
that the loan was unaffordable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered that approach when deciding Miss Gs complaint. Having done so, Ive 
decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Madison treated Miss G 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loan.
1)Did Madison  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable  way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time? 
3)Ultimately, did Madison  make  a fair lending decision?  
4)Did Madison  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
Did Madison complete  reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss G 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that Madison  had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Miss G could afford  to repay the loan she was wanting  to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.  
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that those 
checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances  of the application. I think what this meant  
in practice, was that the scope and extent of Madisons checks needed to reflect the nature of the 
loan, bearing in mind  things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the duration of the loan, 
the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of customer  vulnerability.   
The checks  Madison needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause  Miss G any difficulties or have  any adverse consequences 
for her. It would  also need to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think a reasonable and proportionate check  needed  to be 
more thorough if Miss G had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
Ref: DRN22750953It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Miss Gs ability  to repay, 
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether Madison completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G would be able to repay her loan in a 
sustainable way.
Madison has said it did carry  out some  checks before it agreed  to provide Miss G with the 
loan. And this appears to be based  on it carrying out a credit  check  and an affordability 
assessment based  on the information she gave it and assumptions it made about her 
outgoings. It has argued that a credit search  shows that Miss G paid off all her active  loans 
with the proceeds  of from the loan. And it has provided details from Miss Gs credit  file at the 
time of the application. 
But, from what Ive seen  I dont think Madisons checks were reasonable or proportionate in this 
case. I say this because  it doesnt appear  to have taken any steps to verify Miss Gs income. 
Her declared  monthly income was in my opinion, relatively low. I think this made  it particularly 
important that Madison  checked she had enough disposable income (after her regular 
outgoings), to make a repayment that individually accounted for one third of her income.
It also asked Miss G whether she thought the loan was affordable. And it appears to have 
accepted what  she told it. Lenders have a regulatory obligation to complete affordability 
checks based on sufficient information.  And at the time the loan was provided  to Miss G, 
CONC 5.3.4 stated that: 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer.
So, Madison  needed to carry out its own affordability  assessment to satisfy itself that the 
loan was affordable  for Miss G. And given the level of existing debt she had, I think  Madison 
should have carried  out reasonable and proportionate  checks  to verify  her income and 
expenditure given that the repayments  would form a very high proportion of her income.  
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time and did Madison 
make a fair lending decision?
Although Madison didnt verify  Miss Gs income,  I dont think this necessarily makes a 
difference in this case. I say because  looking at what Miss G has said,  it appears  that her 
circumstances have  changed since she took out the loan. At the time the loan was taken out 
she was working. When she made  her complaint, she said she was in full time education.  
Ref: DRN22750954Ive thought carefully about what Miss G said in response to my provisional decision. Shes 
said she was a student working on a summer break. But her application records that she 
was working full time And Ive not seen anything in support of what Miss G has said about 
her employment only being  a summer job. And shes  not provided  any evidence  that shows  
her income wasnt what she told Madison on her online application. 
Although Miss G had a relatively low her income,  the application form she completed 
indicates that she was living with her parents. Her outgoings were  recorded as £240 a month  
which included loan which  included credit  repayments of £100. So, her monthly outgoings  
appear to have been relatively low as well.  
Miss G has said that Madison didnt carry out a credit search. But it does appear to have 
carried out a credit search as part of its checks at the time the loan was provided. Ive 
reviewed the information  from the credit search  report. This records that at the time of the 
application Miss G was making  monthly  payments of £437 in respect of her outstanding 
loans. With the loans repaid she would have been £103 a month better off once  the new 
loan and monthly payments of £333.98  started. And taking into account her monthly 
expenditure including her payments to creditors, she had surplus income each  month. 
Miss G did settle her loans on 16 July 2017 which supports the rationale  for taking out this 
loan. In the particular circumstances of this case,  the lending does appear  to have had a 
positive impact on Miss Gs finances, by reducing  the monthly repayments she had been 
making in respect  of her credit repayments.
Ive also thought about what  Miss G has said about  the loan payment being unaffordable.  I 
think Miss Gs history  of payments would have formed  an important part of any affordability 
assessment. An analysis of the credit search  report indicates that whilst Miss G did have a 
number of outstanding debts, she also had a good payment record.  She had had no credit  
defaults in the previous 36 months.  This all suggests  to me that she had been able to manage  
her payments to creditors up until that point in a sustainable way. And as Ive explained above, 
the debt consolidation reduced the payments she made to creditors each month.
Miss G has also said that she had complaints about loans taken out with different providers 
which were upheld. But that doesnt necessarily  mean that this loan was unaffordable for 
her. Or that because other similar complaints to this were upheld  by different businesses, 
that this complaint should also be upheld. I need to consider Miss Gs financial 
circumstances in relation  to this particular loan.
Therefore, for the reasons Ive set out above, although I do have concerns about the lack of 
proportionate checks carried out by Madison on Miss G, Im satisfied  that the loan was affordable 
for her. And that it wasnt wrong for Madison in the particular circumstances of Miss Gs case to 
provide her with the loan, or that it acted  unfairly towards her in some  other  way.
Ref: DRN22750955my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2275095