K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly told him to visit a branch to resolve  
issues which had arisen when making  an online  application for a current  account. 
For his inconvenience, he wants  HSBC to pay him £100.
background
Mr M applied to switch a current  account on-line  with HSBC. He encountered 
technical problems  and telephoned HSBC to see if the matter  could be resolved.  
During the call, he was told a letter  had been sent to him. But HSBCs representative 
was unable to access the letter,  so couldnt tell Mr M what it said. He says HSBC told  
him to visit a branch to resolve the matter. Mr M visited an HSBC branch later that 
day, but the branch was unable to set up the account or access  the letter that had  
been sent to him. When a conversation between Mr M and  the branch manager 
became heated, Mr M was asked to leave  the branch.
Mr M told us hes unhappy with the amount  of time he had to spend on the phone  
and visiting the branch. And hes unhappy with the attitude of the branch manager. 
He says it was an effort for him to travel  to the branch, given his age and health, and 
the branch wasnt able to help him anyway.
HSBC says Mr M was verbally abusive to its representative on the telephone. And 
Mr M was abusive to the branch manager. It says it will not open  an account for Mr 
M due to his behaviour towards its staff.  Mr M hasnt denied doing this, but he 
remains unhappy he was told to visit a branch when a branch  couldnt help  him.
Our investigator told Mr M that hed listened to the relevant call recordings, and  Mr M 
wasnt told to go to a branch to resolve  the matter. And  he thought the branch 
couldnt have accessed the letter at that time of Mr Ms visit. 
As our investigator didnt think  HSBC had made a mistake,  he didnt think  it needed 
to compensate  Mr M for what  happened.  
Mr M remained unhappy and asked  for his complaint to be  reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree  with the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To reach my decision, Ive looked  at whether  HSBC caused  Mr M an unnecessary 
journey and whether the branch  should  have done more to help him.
HSBC has provided  a copy of a letter to Mr M dated the same day as his branch 
visit. This letter refers to his online application and says he will need to go to the 
branch to supply suitable ID. But I dont think Mr M acted  on that  instruction, because 
the letter was sent by post and wouldnt have  been received by Mr M before his visit 
Ref: DRN24693132to the branch. And I think that letter  is likely to be the one that  Mr M wanted to know 
the contents of during his calls to HSBC on the same day and during his visit  to the 
branch.
HSBCs records  show that, on the day Mr M visited the branch, hed already had  a 
telephone conversation with one of its representatives.  Ive listened  to the recording 
of that call. During the call, the representative explained that she  couldnt access the 
letter that had been sent that day. Mr M became angry.  Towards the end of the call, 
he said:
You should be closed  down and we should  be able to go  in a branch and sort 
this out.
HSBCs representative  responded:
You can visit a branch if you wish Mr M  thats your choice .
During this exchange, HSBCs representative remained calm and polite. Given  the 
context of the call and the specific  wording of the representatives response, I dont  
think she was instructing Mr M to visit the branch. Shortly after the above  exchange, 
the call had to be terminated, so next steps  were not discussed  or agreed.
Mr M went  to the branch to try to resolve  the matter. Ive looked-up his journey on-
line, so I can see that this was a significant inconvenience to him, given what he has  
told us about  his health. But I think this was his choice  I dont think HSBC 
instructed him to make  that journey, at that time.
Mr M says he was unhappy  with the branch  managers attitude.  The records from the 
branch indicate that it also had no access to the letter  HSBC had written that day. 
The records say:
No information available at branch,  no outstanding application so unable to 
help.
HSBC has explained that its branch wouldnt have been able to  see the contents of a 
letter that was written  that day. I can see how that may have appeared  unhelpful to       
Mr M, but I havent seen that the branch  manager should have done more to help.
HSBC says it will not open an account  for Mr M due to his behaviour towards its 
staff. Irrespective of the reason  Mr M initially had difficulty with his application,  I think  
its fair for HSBC to decline  Mr Ms application for the reason its  given. I dont think  
HSBC was the cause  of Mr Ms unnecessary journey and I havent seen anything 
suggesting an inappropriate attitude from its branch  manager. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Ref: DRN24693133Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2019. 
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2469313