K821x#15complaint
Miss T says that Provident Personal  Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  didnt treat her fairly 
when she  through a debt consolidation company  tried to repay  a loan. And shes  not 
happy with the way in which  it has put things right so far.
background
Miss T borrowed  £1,000  from Satsuma.  This was credited to her bank account  on 
24 September 2018. It was due to be repaid over 12 months at £166  per month.
On 2 October 2018 Miss T contacted Satsuma to ask about how much  it would cost to settle 
the loan. According to its contact notes she explained that she had gone  to a debt 
consolidation company. She explained  that she wasnt  able to agree to withdraw at that time 
so the withdrawal process wasnt formally  activated.   But Miss T took Satsumas bank details 
to allow  her debt consolidation company to pay off her loan. I understand that she was told 
the early settlement figure  was £1,200.
On 19 October 2018 the debt consolidation company  made a payment of £1,200 to 
Satsuma. Miss T says she understood that her loan with Satsuma was settled at that point.
On 1 November  2018  using the continuous  payment authority (CPA) which  Miss T had 
authorised at the time she took the loan, Satsuma  withdrew £166  from her current  account.
Miss T contacted Satsuma immediately. She was told that the payment of £1,200  had been 
applied to her loan account  but that the loan had not been repaid as payment wasnt 
received within  the 14 day period allowed for withdrawal.  It seems that she was also 
informed that there was still a balance owing on the loan of over £600. Miss T lodged  her 
complaint with Satsuma.
On 29 November Satsuma issued its final response  letter to Miss T. It agreed to uphold  her 
complaint. To put things right it explained that it was honouring the original withdrawal 
balance, had written  off the outstanding  balance of £626 and issued a cheque for 
Novembers payment with some  additional  interest  a total of £166.93. Finally it agreed to 
amend Miss Ts credit file to show that the loan had been settled on the date the payment 
from the debt consolidation company had been received. 
Miss T doesnt think that Satsuma did enough  to put things right. She says that the 
withdrawal via the CPA led her finances  to deteriorate again  and she ended up in the same 
position as before. She also says shes been caused a lot of stress  by what happened.
Our adjudicator looked into the matter  but he didnt think  that he could  fairly  say that this 
single transaction  was responsible for putting Miss T back  in debt or back  to the situation 
shed previously been in. He concluded  that there wasnt  enough  evidence  to show  that 
Satsuma was exclusively  responsible for making  Miss Ts situation  worse.
Miss T didnt agree. As the matter wasnt resolved it came to me - an ombudsman - for a 
decision. A few weeks ago I issued a provisional  decision in which I explained  why I was 
minded to require  Satsuma to pay Miss T some additional compensation for her trouble and 
upset. I invited the parties to let me have anything further they wanted me to think  about 
before I reconsidered the matter.
Ref: DRN21869492If Miss T accepts this final decision,  it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Miss T says she accepts my 
provisional decision. I havent heard anything more  from Satsuma. In these circumstances I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  conclusions. This is what  I said in my 
provisional decision:
Satsuma accepts that something went wrong  saying The payment  that was deducted  from 
your bank account should  not have been taken as the payment made by [the debt 
consolidation company] should have closed the agreement for you. I apologise for the stress  
and inconvenience caused  and as a result, I am upholding your complaint. So Im not looking  
into whether  or not something did go wrong; I'm considering whether  Satsuma has done 
enough to put things right for Miss T.  
Our adjudicator carefully considered what Miss T had told us about the affect Satsumas error 
had on her. But - as Ive explained above - he didnt  think that the withdrawal from her 
account could fairly be said to have been exclusively  responsible for making  Miss Ts financial  
situation any worse than it already was. He concluded that Satsuma had done broadly what 
wed likely expect of a business  in these circumstances.     
I think  its important to remember that Satsuma accepts  that it did something wrong. And 
errors such as this are not only capable of having a detrimental financial impact on a 
consumer, but could also cause them broader stress and anxiety.
I acknowledge that Satsuma has done much of what wed usually expect it to have done in 
these circumstances  - clearing the balance, amending the credit report  and refunding the 
amount that was withdrawn  (plus a little interest). And overall I think that things have been put 
right so far as Miss Ts financial situation  is concerned.  Like our adjudicator,  I'm not currently 
persuaded that her financial  circumstances were so adversely impacted  by this one 
withdrawal that further compensation  is warranted  for that aspect of her complaint   for 
reasons Ill explain below. 
But because Miss Ts financial  situation  was so precarious, she says that the withdrawal and 
then the delay  in putting things  right had an impact upon her mental health.  So Ive thought  
about whether further compensation  is appropriate for her trouble and upset   something 
which hasnt been addressed yet. 
Miss Ts financial circumstances were very precarious.  Our adjudicator noted this and felt that 
it wasnt possible to determine that the one transaction had made  her situation worse  - given 
everything that was happening on her account. And I agree with him. Miss T has provided, 
and I've looked at, banks statements for two accounts. In September and October  direct 
debits for priority debts (including council  tax, utilities, insurance and phone contracts) had 
been returned  unpaid  on a number of occasions. I can see that Miss T was borrowing  from 
and repaying several other payday and high cost lenders. Indeed I note that on the day she 
received £1,000 from Satsuma (the loan in question) she repaid another  high-cost  short-term 
credit provider £718 - so she used  this loan to repay other credit. 
I can also see in Miss Ts statements that she took loans from the debt consolidation  
company - which she was using to try to consolidate  her indebtedness. So it seems that by 
late October/early  November she was trying to get her finances in some sort of order by 
consolidating all her credit through one company she would only have one loan repayment. 
However from what I can she still didnt  have  enough  money  to meet her bills and all the other 
transactions on her account  - so it wasnt long before things started  to deteriorate again. 
Ref: DRN21869493I've mentioned that I've seen  statements  for two accounts. The sum of £166 was taken by 
Satsuma from Account  #1. I accept that Miss T tended to transfer money  between  accounts  
but the withdrawal by Satsuma  didnt lead to her being overdrawn  in this account. 
Account #2 was the one Miss T tended to use to pay bills. From  what  I've seen this was often 
several hundred pounds  overdrawn. But it looks  as though  she tried to manage it closely to 
avoid going over her overdraft limit of - what I think - was £300. She did this by transferring 
money between the two accounts very regularly.  So I expect  that as Account# 1 had £166 
less in it than shed expected, she couldnt transfer as much as shed  planned to Account #2 
to cover her bills. But on looking closely  at her accounts  I dont think  that this sum is likely to 
have kept Miss T from having direct debits returned on Account #2. 
In the month of November after the CPA withdrawal of £166 by Satsuma  Miss T a number of 
direct debits returned unpaid on Account  #2: from my calculations  this was around £330.  She 
did take another payday  loan later in the month for £60  which in itself didnt add enough to 
her account  balance such that no direct  debits  would  be returned. So whilst I accept  that the 
withdrawal by Satsuma  may have reduced her balance and arguably fewer direct debits 
wouldve been  returned, the overall  picture  is that there still wasnt enough money in her 
account to meet her usual outgoings and her direct debits. 
So, like our adjudicator, I cant safely say that any specific problems on Miss Ts accounts 
were solely  the result of Satsumas withdrawal  of £166. I agree with our adjudicator  when he 
says that the withdrawal wasnt ideal  but overall, what Satsuma had done was in line with 
what we would  recommend  so far as the financial side is concerned.
But, what of the trouble and upset caused  to Miss T? I think Satsuma  knew that Miss T was 
struggling financially  and so shouldnt  have delayed  in sorting  out her problem. For example it 
seems Satsuma had some degree of knowledge that Miss T had significantly more credit 
commitments than shed declared at the point she took the loan in the first place. She had 
declared that she didnt have any credit  commitments. But on assessing  her credit situation it 
adjusted that for the purposes  of its assessment by over £470. 
Furthermore on the 2 October,  when  shed enquired about the settlement figure, she 
explained that she was using a debt consolidation  company  another indication that she was 
most likely in financial difficulties.
But when Miss T telephoned  Satsuma  on 1 November it seems her concerns (and her 
situation) werent acknowledged as they shouldve  been  given that Satsuma has since  
acknowledged that her complaint was a valid one. According  to the contact notes, once 
Miss T had explained what had happened the Satsuma representative told her that the loan 
hadnt been cleared because the payment  hadnt been made  within the 14 day withdrawal 
period. And it offered her a repayment plan for the balance.  Her  email later that day suggests 
that shed was told that the balance  still owing was over £600. She questioned how that could 
be and mentioned that Satsuma  had put her in the most stressful positon shed ever been in. 
Miss T then pursued her complaint. 
Satsuma responded to Miss T around four weeks later which, I acknowledge, is within  the 
allowed timescales.  But this was in the circumstances  I've outlined above  and the volume of 
contact alone in this period  from Miss T would tend to demonstrate some desperation on her 
part.
Ref: DRN21869494As I've mentioned, in the final response letter of 29 November 2018, Satsuma accepted that 
the amount of £166 should  not have been taken from Miss Ts bank account at the start of 
November because the payment made by the debt consolidation company  shouldve closed 
the account for her. On two occasions in the letter it apologised  firstly for the distress and 
inconvenience, and later,  for any trouble  and upset we may have caused you. But I note that 
it didnt offer Miss T any additional compensation for her trouble and upset.
Miss Ts finances were  on a knife-edge. So the unexpected  withdrawal of £166 (which  she 
says meant she needed to manage her accounts differently from the way shed expected) and 
the news  that she still had over £600 to pay on the loan is likely to have caused her to worry.  I 
think thats something Satsuma shouldve recognised  and acknowledged. And I think  an 
award of £250 is appropriate  in this case.
I expect both Miss T and Satsuma  will be disappointed by my proposed decision. 
Miss T has told us that she wants at least £400 to recognise what  shes been thorough. I can 
tell that she feels very upset  and frustrated at what has happened. And I'm sorry  that she 
feels her mental health  has also been  adversely affected. I do accept that she was caused 
stress - but how much  of it is down to Satsumas error or down to her general poor financial  
state its hard to say. I agree that the withdrawal of £166 meant Miss T had to juggle  her 
money in a way which was likely  to have been different to what shed  planned. On top of that 
she was told she still had over £600 to pay on the loan: this is likely to have come as a real 
blow to her. It wasnt until four weeks later that she was informed that this was no longer the 
case. With all this in mind  I think £250 would fairly  and reasonably compensate her for her 
trouble and upset.
Satsuma will be disappointed because - to some degree - it has tried to put things right. But 
I'm not persuaded it has gone far enough. 
My role is to reach an outcome which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So in 
addition to the things  Satsuma agreed to do in November 2018 I'm persuaded  that a further 
award of £250 to Miss T would be fair. And that is how I propose Satsuma should  put things 
right. So on top of what  its already done, Satsuma should pay Miss T £250 for the additional 
trouble and upset caused to her when things went wrong in October and November 2018.  
As I've mentioned  above I havent been provided  with anything further which  persuades me 
to depart from my provisional conclusions. So I uphold Miss Ts complaint  and require 
Satsuma to pay her an additional  £250  to reflect her trouble and upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ts complaint 
and require Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  to put things right by paying her an additional 
£250 for her trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2186949