K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mr G are unhappy with the settlement they received from Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) after they made a claim under their property owners insurance policy 
for malicious  damage.  Theyre also unhappy with the way RSA has handled  their claim.
background
Mr M and Mr G let out a property which was vandalised. They made  a claim to RSA. It 
accepted the claim and offered them about £6,000 to settle it. Mr M and Mr G complained  
to RSA about the settlement. They said the damage cost about £30,000 to repair.
On 31 May 2018 RSA issued a final response  letter  in respect  of their complaint. It said it 
wasnt prepared to increase its settlement offer.
On 7 September 2018 Mr G emailed RSA with further information  regarding the claim. RSA 
didnt respond  initially.  On 26 September 2018 after Mr G complained about the delay in 
replying, RSA apologised for the delay  and said its claims department  would consider the 
information.
Mr M and Mr G brought their two complaints to this service on 1 February 2019. We said 
we couldnt look at the first complaint because it hadnt been brought to us in time. With 
regard to the second complaint our investigator didnt think  RSA needed  to do any more.
As Mr M and Mr G didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this final decision Im only looking at how RSA handled the claim after Mr G sent it further 
information in September  2018.
I can see that in May 2018 RSAs complaints handler explained that her role was only to 
consider complaints and any additional  information  relating to the claim should be sent to the 
claims department. So Mr G should have addressed his email of 7 September 2018  to the 
claims department rather than the complaints  handler. Nonetheless the complaints handler 
should have forwarded the email to the correct department sooner rather than waiting until 
25 September to deal with it. I appreciate that delay would have been frustrating for Mr M 
and Mr G. But I cant see that theyve  been prejudiced as a result  of that delay especially 
since it had taken them about four months  to provide this further information to RSA. All in 
all, I think RSAs apology  was a reasonable response in the circumstances. I dont  think  it 
needs to do any more.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2020.
Ref: DRN28762992Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2876299