K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) persuaded him to apply  for a loan 
by giving misleading information online. 
Background
Mr C has a bank account with Halifax. Mr C says that when he logged in he was advised  
Halifax thought  he could afford  to take out a personal loan. As a result, Mr C made several 
unsuccessful applications for a loan,  decreasing  the amount he wanted to borrow each time. 
None of Mr Cs loan applications were successful. He discussed the applications with an 
underwriter at Halifax who said there were concerns over affordability and how hed 
managed his account.
Mr C complained and said Halifax had given him misleading information  which  made him 
think hed be approved for a loan. Halifax responded on 19 February 2019 but didnt agree it 
had made  any mistakes.  Halifax said the figures provided online were  only an indication of 
what Mr C might be able to borrow  and didnt guarantee approval. Mr C referred his 
complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. The investigator agreed with 
Halifax and didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Mr C asked to appeal  so his complaint  has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided screen prints of the information he was given by Halifax  that persuaded 
him to apply  for a loan. The web page provides  lots of information about  the proposed loan. 
At the top, it says Our quotes are based on what we know about you today. These  will be 
subject to personal affordability  checks which  could affect the amount you could borrow.  The 
webpage later says Based on what we know about  you we think we could  lend you XXXX 
over XX months. This may change once we take into account the additional  information  you 
give us on the next page.  
Mr C says he feels misled  and that the information provided by Halifax  unreasonably made 
him think he would be accepted for the loan. But the information  is quite specific in saying 
that the loan amount quoted may change when more information is reviewed and 
affordability checks completed. And thats  whats happened in Mr Cs case. 
Halifax looked at the information Mr C provided, his credit file and its own records. Based on 
all the available  information, Halifax declined the loan applications. Mr C was able to discuss 
his applications  with an underwriter who explained  why they werent successful. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I havent  found that the information  Halifax supplied  was 
misleading. I think it was clear in explaining  that the figures noted were subject to further  
assessments and checks. Ultimately, Halifax took the decision not to proceed, even after 
Mr C reduced  the amount  he wanted  to borrow. Whilst I understand my decision may feel 
harsh to Mr C, thats a decision Halifax is entitled  to make. 
Ref: DRN24123222In response to the investigator, Mr C said he thinks Halifax should stop advertising the loans 
to customers that have been declined.  I take Mr Cs point but I think its reasonable to note 
that future  applications  may be approved. I havent seen anything to show that future  
applications wont be fairly considered based on Halifaxs lending criteria  at that time. 
Mr C has told us he applied for a loan seven times and is concerned about the impact on his 
credit file. But Mr C did make  seven separate applications which  means Halifax can reflect 
that on his credit file. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I havent  been persuaded that Halifax  misled him into 
applying for a loan.  Im satisfied the information  it gave him was clear in explaining that the 
figures quoted  were  subject to further  checks and werent guaranteed. As Im satisfied 
Halifax dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further  action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2412322