K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Sunny provided  to Mrs J between January 
2017 and August 2018. Mrs Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 15/01/2017 20/01/2017 6 200 £57.26
2 03/04/2017 22/09/2017 6 150 £46.91
3 05/09/2017 23/02/2018 6 150 £92.95
4 06/01/2018 24/05/2018 6 100 £76.50
5 26/03/2018 26/03/2018 6 100 £63.45
6 02/04/2018 02/04/2018 6 100 £94.94
7 03/04/2018 22/06/2018 6 100  *
8 22/06/2018 24/08/2018 6 200  *
9 24/08/2018 Outstanding 6 200  *
(Loans highlighted have been offered to be refunded by Sunny.)
 
Sunny offered to uphold Mrs Js complaint from loan 4 onwards. But the offer wasnt  in-line 
with our general approach. 
In the most recent view,  our adjudicator  upheld  Mrs Js complaint and thought that all the 
loans shouldnt have  been given because the information Sunny had gathered  about  Mrs J 
showed she was having problems managing her money due to her total outgoings when she 
was given loan 1. 
As Sunny didnt  respond to this view, the complaint  was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN27956762But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Sunny has already agreed to uphold  Mrs Js complaint  about  loan 4 onwards so I wont 
make any further findings on these  loans. But what it has offered to do with regards to 
redress isnt in-line  with our general  approach. I will address what  Sunny needs to do with 
regards to these  loans later in this decision.  
This leaves  me to consider loans 1 to 3. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint. Having done  so, Im upholding the complaint 
about loans 1 to 3. Ill explain  why. 
From the information provided, I can see Sunny did several checks on Mrs J before it lent 
her loan 1. But from the information those checks showed, Sunny ought to have also 
realised that Mrs J wouldnt  have  been  able to make her repayments  for loan 1 sustainably 
without taking out more lending. I say this because the checks  show that Mrs J had a 
declared income of £1,256 and her declared  total outgoings  before her instalment for loan 
1  was £1,163. Once she had repaid her commitment to Sunny, this would have left her 
with around £35 which wouldnt have been enough to cover  for any emergencies  or 
unforeseen eventualities.  
Ref: DRN27956763Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that this point was reached by loan 6. I think that Mrs J lost out 
because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from this loan onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing  her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs J borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream  credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do 
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back  if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mrs J towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mrs J which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs J originally made  
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mrs J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mrs J having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mrs J. However,  if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs J. Sunny shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mrs Js credit file in relation to 
loans 1 to 5. The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing  for loans  6 to 9 means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove  these loans entirely from Mrs Js 
credit file. Sunny does  not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mrs Js credit  file until 
these have been repaid, but Sunny should still remove any adverse information  recorded 
about these loans.
Ref: DRN27956764 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited must give Mrs J a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Js complaint.  Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2795676