K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs A hold with NRAM Limited.  Theyre unhappy 
that NRAM charged a series of £1 fees for payments they made to the mortgage using a 
paying-in book  at a bank  counter. They say NRAM didnt  tell them about this fee.
background
Mr A asked for a paying-in book during a phone  conversation on 7 February  2018.  NRAM 
sent the book  out, and it allowed payments to be made over the counter of NRAMs bank. 
Mr and Mrs A used  the book to make several payments, but when they received their next 
statement, they noticed that NRAM had charged them  £1 for each transaction.  They 
complained saying that the paying-in book itself says theres no charge.
NRAM rejected the complaint, and when  it came to us, our investigator didnt think NRAM 
had done anything wrong. He said he was satisfied NRAM had told Mr and Mrs A about the 
charge. Mr and Mrs A have asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs A; I dont think NRAM has done anything  wrong  either.
This case is simpler  than its been made to look. Where it says on the paying-in book that 
therell be no charge  for using it, that means  no charge will be made by the bank where the 
payment is made. It doesnt mean NRAM wont make  a charge. It charges £1 per transaction  
and this is detailed  in the tariff of charges that forms part of the mortgage contract. A copy of 
the tariff is included with annual statements.
Ive listened to a recording  of the phone conversation Mr A had with NRAM on 
7 February 2018,  during which he asked for the paying-in book. During that conversation,  
the call-handler expressly mentions the £1 charge  for payments  made  over the bank counter 
using the paying-in book.  
Im satisfied Mr A heard and understood the information, because  he asked the call-handler  
if there were  other ways of paying  manually that didnt attract the £1 fee, and was told there  
arent. 
Ref: DRN27256222my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2725622