K820x#14complaint
Mr V, a director  of a limited company (the company), has complained that Lloyds Bank  
PLCs decision to appoint  a Law of Property Act Receiver (LPAR) in July 2017 was too 
hasty. As a result, Mr V says the company  sustained  losses,  as well as having to pay the 
LPARs costs. He is asking Lloyds to reduce the outstanding debt to the bank by £35,000.  
This is the amount Mr V says the LPARs actions cost the company. 
Mr V and the company are represented  in the complaint by solicitors.
background
In August  2011  the company took out a consolidation  loan for £540,000,  rolling  up historic 
debt. The loan was repayable after four years. The company intended  to sell property 
piecemeal to repay the loan within that period.  But In August 2015  the loan was refinanced  
onto a new 12-month facility for £414,000.
By August 2016 the loan had expired and Lloyds declined to offer a further  facility.  Instead it 
granted an overdraft  of £354,000 to clear the loan balance and to give the company more 
time to complete  sales  and clear its borrowing. This was extended until 7 February  2017.
On 8 February 2017 formal demand  was made  for repayment, and the companys  accounts 
were transferred to the banks Recoveries Commercial Banking (RCB). A month later RCB  
wrote to the company and made formal demand  on the two directors,  who had given 
personal guarantees and a legal charge over a hotel they own as security for the debt.
In April 2017 RCB agreed a further  extension  to 14 June 2017  to allow the company to 
complete property sales and repay the debt.  On 22 June 2017,  with the debt unpaid, RCB 
wrote to the company confirming the banks intention to appoint a LPAR.  No response was 
received. 
On 1 August  2017 RCB attempted  to speak to Mr V, but he said he was busy and would call 
back. RCB  was unable  to speak to him, so it went ahead and appointed the LPAR.  The 
LPAR sold five properties, and on 30 March 2018 paid £300,240 to Lloyds. 
This left a shortfall of £70,000 owed  to Lloyds. On 4 April 2018 RCB contacted the directors  
asking for repayment  proposals pursuant to their personal guarantees. On 15 May 2018, the 
directors, through their solicitors, offered £35,000  in settlement, which  Lloyds has declined.
Mr V complained to Lloyds about the appointment of the LPAR.  He says that insufficient time 
was given for the company to repay  the debt by voluntary  sales of its properties.  
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought  to us. An adjudicator looked at the 
complaint but didnt  think Lloyds had done  anything  wrong.
The companys solicitors asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  They say that, 
following the appointment of the LPAR,  tenants were advised to stop paying rent and empty 
units were not offered  for rental. As a result, the lost revenue and opportunity  to the 
company is estimated at £35,000.  
The solicitors also say that a sale of one property was aborted when the LPAR  was 
appointed, because he failed to pursue the transaction.  The solicitors say that Mr V hasnt 
Ref: DRN27998432been treated fairly and there is no point in Lloyds blaming the LPAR, as it was the banks  
choice to make the appointment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have 
disappointing news for Mr V  Im not upholding the complaint.  
Its not disputed  that Lloyds  was entitled  to appoint  the LPAR; the crux of the complaint is 
whether Lloyds was justified  in doing so. Having  considered the matter carefully, Im satisfied 
it was.
The company had agreed to repay  the loan in 2015. Lloyds showed sufficient forbearance by 
extending this for a year, and then granting further extensions for repayment of the overdraft 
(onto which the loan had been refinanced) until 14 June 2017.  
Im satisfied Lloyds sought the companys proposals for repayment before it considered 
appointing the LPAR. And in June 2017 the bank put the company on notice  of its intention 
to appoint the LPAR.  On 1 August 2017,  after Mr V said he was too busy to speak to the 
bank, the LPAR  appointment was made.
I think this was reasonable in all the circumstances. The facility had expired, it appeared 
there were no proposals for repayment (or, if there  were, Lloyds requests for information  
about these went  unanswered  by the companys  agents). Lloyds wasnt  obliged  to allow the 
facility to continue, unpaid,  where  the company  was failing  to engage about how it would 
repay the debt.  
Given this, I think the decision to appoint the LPAR was appropriate  in all the circumstances.  
It follows that I am also satisfied that the company is liable for the costs  of the LPAR,  which 
have been added to the overall debt.
I acknowledge Mr V considers the LPAR has caused him a loss of £35,000. Consequently 
he considers it only fair that Lloyds reduces the outstanding debt by that amount. But, as the 
adjudicator explained, any action taken  by the LPAR doesnt  fall within  our remit. Mr V will 
need to take up his grievances direct with the LPAR if he believes its actions have caused 
him to lose £35,000.  But Im unable to order Lloyds to reduce the outstanding debt by 
£35,000. Thats because  Im satisfied it is a debt which is legitimately owed to the bank.
I understand Mr V will be disappointed by my decision, but in all the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Lloyds appointment of the LPAR was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V, on behalf  of 
the company,  to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27998433
Ref: DRN2799843