K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
Background
Mr N took out 28 loans with Sunny between September 2015 and September 2016.  Mr N 
says he was in financial difficulties. Mr N thinks that with Sunny shouldve realised that he 
was borrowing from other short term lenders  at the same time. 
Mr N wants Sunny to refund the interest and charges that he paid and remove  any negative  
information that it has recorded about the loans  on his credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ns complaint be upheld in part. She thought  that 
Sunny shouldnt have agreed  loans six to 28. 
The adjudicator asked Sunny to remove loans six onwards entirely from Mr Ns credit  file. 
The adjudicator also recommended  that Sunny refund the interest and charges  that Mr N 
had paid on the affected loans.
Sunny offered to do what the adjudicator had recommended in relation to loans ten to 25. 
Sunny offered to apply the refund against  the outstanding capital balance  on loans 26 to 28 
and write  off the remaining  balance.
Mr N wasnt willing to accept Sunnys offer so the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr N could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN28524832the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr N could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right for loans ten to 25 so Ive included  a direction in 
my decision  about what  steps  it should  take if Mr N accepts my decision.
As Mr N hasnt  objected to the adjudicators  recommendation not to uphold his complaint 
about loans one to five, I wont  say anything further about these and instead will concentrate  
on loans six to 28.
Loan six onwards
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr N, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr N any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ns case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Ns borrowing suggested  that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr N had taken out in just over four months. Mr N borrowed 
loan six on the same day that he repaid  loan five. And in the previous month, Mr N took out 
two loans from Sunny in the same month.  
I think this pattern of lending was an indication that Mr N might  be having difficulties 
managing his money and was using short term loans for everyday  living  costs rather  than 
one-off expenses.
Ref: DRN28524833Mr N went on to have overlapping loans and he continued to borrow  either immediately  upon  
or shortly after settling an earlier loan. So Sunny should have realised that it was more likely 
than not Mr N was reliant on short term lending and needed to borrow  further to fill the hole 
repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances. 
Although the amounts that Mr N borrowed sometime fluctuated, he often had two or even 
three loans  open  at the same time. For example, although loan six was for £100  Mr N went 
on to borrow a further £950 within the space of just over two weeks.   So Mr N wasnt making  
any real inroads into what he owed Sunny and his indebtedness was being  prolonged. This 
meant that Mr N had been paying  large amounts  of interest to, in effect; service a debt to 
Sunny over a long period.
I think that Mr N lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ns indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ns ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Ns complaint about  loans six to 28. 
As Mr N has had the benefit of the money lent to him, I agree that its fair to allow Sunny to 
apply the refund to any outstanding principal balance. 
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr N paid on loans six to 28;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loans  26 to 28;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loans 26 to 28 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr N**; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 28 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 28 should be removed from Mr Ns 
credit file.
I understand that Sunny has sold loans  26 to 28 to a third party debt purchaser. Sunny has 
offered to buy the debts back in order to deal with the latest loans. But if this isnt possible,  
Sunny should  (in addition to the above  if necessary);
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr N has already paid to the third party,  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and 
Ref: DRN28524834direct  the third party to remove any information  about loans 26 to 28 from Mr Ns 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding principal balance,  I remind  
Sunny of its obligation  to treat Mr N sympathetically and reasonably  in any repayment  
discussions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part and direct Active Securities Limited 
(trading as Sunny)  to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2852483