K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about overdraft fees hes paid to Barclay Bank UK PLC.  
background
Mr L has a Barclays current account with an overdraft facility. Mr L is charged  for using his 
overdraft at 75p a day up to the first £1,000. Theres an emergency borrowing facility  for 
another £500 that Mr L is charged  £5 per day to use (with a maximum of seven fees applied  
each month).  
Over the years Mr L has paid both types  of overdraft fee. In October  2017  Mr L talked  to 
Barclays about financial difficulties and completed an income and expenditure assessment. 
At the end of the assessment the figures  said Mr L had around £83 disposable income  a 
month. Mr L wanted to check his figures but didnt subsequently go back  to Barclays to 
discuss his situation  further. 
In 2018 and 2019 Mr L asked Barclays to refund charges. Barclays said Mr L would have to 
do another income and expenditure assessment before it would look at the charges hes 
paid. 
Mr L complained in November 2018 and Barclays offered to refund the previous months 
charges of £75.50 and waive £88.00 which was due the following month.  Mr L referred his 
complaint to this service  and an investigator looked at what  had happened.  They thought 
Barclays had dealt  with Mr Ls complaint  fairly and its offer to refund and waive  some  
overdraft charges was reasonable.  Mr L didnt  agree  and asked for his complaint to be 
appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and building societies are allowed  to charge customers for using an overdraft facility. 
In this case, Mr L has an arranged overdraft limit of £1,000 with emergency borrowing of 
£500. Ive set the costs for each  part of Mr Ls overdraft out above. Whilst I can see Mr L has 
been overdrawn for a long time, I havent found  any evidence the charges have been 
applied incorrectly. Mr Ls been charged  in line with his account terms. 
As the charges have been correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls 
account theres very limit grounds to tell Barclays to refund them.  
Ive looked at how Barclays treated Mr L and whether its done enough to help him whilst 
hes experienced financial difficulties. Barclays has provided evidence of letters and 
messages its sent Mr L over the years  concerning  his overdraft. And Mr L contacted  
Barclays to discuss his options in October 2017.  Ive listened to the call where Mr L 
discussed his circumstances  with Barclays. 
Businesses should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. 
That means they should look at their circumstance and consider what sort of help they can 
offer. An important part of that process  means the business has to get an accurate picture of 
the customers circumstances. During the call Ive listened to Mr L gave details of his income 
Ref: DRN27926382and outgoings  which showed he had roughly £83 each month  left. Mr L said he wanted to 
check that information and agreed  to contact Barclays again  but didnt. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L but I havent found any evidence that Barclays  has treated him 
unfairly. As the income and expenditure assessment  it completed showed  his overdraft was 
affordable based  on the information  Mr L provided  I wouldnt  expect it to automatically offer 
to refund charges. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays wouldnt have 
considered options for Mr L if hed called back with different information after his call in 
October 2017. 
In Mr Ls response to the investigator hes said that the fees were wrongly applied  due to his 
situation at the time. But as Ive explained  above, Barclays asked Mr L to discuss his 
situation so it could decide what help it could offer. As Barclays  hasnt been able to do that 
since October 2017, when  it found  his overdraft was affordable, I havent found its treated 
Mr L unfairly. 
Mr L has also raised concerns that Barclays offers different overdrafts with lower rates to 
other customers. As the investigators said, we can only look at the individual  circumstances  
of a complaint.  I dont  doubt that Barclays offers different products to its customers  but that 
doesnt mean its made a mistake by applying overdraft fees to Mr Ls current  account. 
Barclays has applied the fees in line with the account terms and condition  and I havent  
found that its made an error. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr L and Barclays  have  said and provided. For the 
reasons Ive given  above, I havent found that Barclays  made any errors when applying 
charges to Mr Ls account.  I take on board Mr Ls points about his circumstances  but I think  
Barclays request that he discusses his income and outgoings  is reasonable. As Im satisfied 
Barclays hasnt made  an error  and has dealt with Mr Ls complaint  fairly Im not telling it to 
take any further action.  Barclays  offered to refund and waive  a total of £163.50 of overdraft 
charges. I leave it to Mr L to decide whether to accept. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792638