K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy with a used car he acquired  from Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) on a 
hire purchase agreement.  He says it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 March  2019 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more comments or evidence  before I reconsidered the 
complaint and issued a final decision. I also provided Mr L with two possible options on how 
Black Horse  could put things right, and asked Mr L to select the option he preferred.
Black Horse  replied saying it accepted my provisional decision and had no further points to 
add.
Mr L replied saying that he accepted my provisional  decision, and selected option 2 whereby 
he could return the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach  
a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision.  So I uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. To put things right,  Blackhorse 
should take back the car as this is the option Mr L has indicated he prefers.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Black Horse  Limited  
should:
collect the car and end the agreement with nothing further to pay
refund  the deposit of £4,130 and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement*
pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (if it hasnt 
already made this payment  to Mr L)
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Black  Horse Limited to take off tax from this interest.
Black Horse  Limited must  give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Lisa Lowe
Ref: DRN21986142Ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mr L is unhappy with a used  car he acquired from Black Horse Limited (Black  Horse) on a hire 
purchase agreement. He says it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Background
Mr L acquired a used  car in March 2017 on a hire purchase agreement. The car was first registered in 
2013 and the cash price  of the car was £14,610 (excluding  any finance charges, interest or fees).
Mr L says that he noticed  a burning  smell  shortly after taking possession of the car and took it to a 
local car dealer in May 2017. He says the dealer couldnt  initially find anything  wrong  but told him to 
come back if the problem  persisted. Mr L says he continued  to notice a burning smell and took the car 
Ref: DRN21986143back to the same dealer  later in May 2017. At this point the dealer replaced  the timing  chain 
tensioner, saying it was leaking oil and causing the burning smell. This work  was completed under  
warranty at no cost to Mr L.
Mr L says the problem reoccurred in 2018, with a noticeable burning smell,  the engine  overheating 
and with the engine  management light (EML) illuminating.  At this point Mr L raised a complaint with 
Black Horse, saying  that he wanted  to reject the car as he didnt believe it was of satisfactory  quality 
and that the current problems were linked to the previous  problem. Mr L also raised a concern about 
the mileage of the car, which was recorded on the hire purchase agreement as nearly  64,000 miles  
whereas the odometer on the car showed  approximately 40,000 miles at the point of supply.
Black Horse responded to Mr L in April 2018 saying that the recent issues with the EML and burning  
smell were  related to each other,  but not to the original problem from 2017. They said that the most 
recent issue was a problem with the charge pressure hose, which needed replacing. They also said 
that they provided the previous repair information to an independent  engineer who told them  that the 
previous problems  with the timing chain  tensioner seal, and the more  recent issue with the charge  
pressure hose,  wouldnt have been present at the point of sale.
But Black  Horse acknowledged that there did appear to be a discrepancy  between  the mileage on the 
hire purchase agreement and what the odometer on the car was showing. But Black Horse  didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint  or allow him to reject the car.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response  from Black Horse, so he brought  his complaint to our service.
Since weve had the complaint Black Horse has agreed to allow Mr L to reject the car, saying theyll 
refund the deposit he paid of £4,130 and pay 8% simple  interest on it, as well as making a payment of 
£350 for the distress  and inconvenience Mr L was caused.
Mr L rejected the offer saying that he wanted to purchase the car from Black Horse in resolution of his 
complaint, explaining this was because of the time and money hes invested in the car. But, he 
wanted to buy the car for a discounted price because of the incorrect mileage.
An investigator looked  into Mr Ls complaint and felt that Black Horses offer was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.  Mr L disagreed  with the investigators  recommendation, saying he wanted the 
option to purchase the car and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Legislation  in this case is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies a term into the supply 
contract that the car must be of satisfactory quality and that it must  meet any description  given. As the 
supplier and finance provider,  Black Horse is responsible for the quality and description of the car it 
provided under the agreement. In addition,  section 56 of the Consumer  Rights Act 1974 provides that 
Black Horse can also be held liable for what the dealership said about the goods and credit 
agreement, if what was said turns out to be incorrect.
was the car mis-sold/mis-described
Mr L has told us that when he went to view the car, he noticed a discrepancy  between the mileage  
shown on the car odometer  and what was stated on the advertisement  for the car that hed seen 
online. But Mr L says he was told that it was a mistake on the website  advert and that the mileage  
recorded on the odometer  was correct.  So he went ahead with purchasing the car. I find his 
explanation as to what happened plausible.
Ref: DRN21986144However, it has since been  identified  that there is probably an issue with the accuracy  of the 
odometer  and that its possible the odometer has been tampered with. It appears questions  about  
the accuracy of the odometer began in May 2018 (almost a year later)   while the car was in for 
assessment with a third party garage. Mr L has provided us with a job sheet  from the third party  
garage and the invoice notes mileage discrepancy  is implausible.
From what Ive seen Black Horse agree that there appears to be a problem  with the odometer and its 
accuracy  noting that it conflicts  with the MOT  history.
Mr L paid over £14,000 for a car he thought had travelled approximately 40,000 miles. In fact it is 
more likely  that the car had travelled over 60,000 miles  when he got it. All in all, I think it likely  that the 
car had travelled a far greater distance  than what was recorded on the odometer at the point it was 
supplied. And I think that this issue with the mileage is significant enough to mean that this car was 
probably mis-sold/mis-described in that the odometer reading was most likely  to have been incorrect.
I know that Mr L has also raised concerns about  problems hes had with the car, around the burning 
smell and the EML illuminating.  But I dont need to make a finding on this, in light of my findings 
above, and in any event,  it seems these problems have  been repaired to Mr Ls satisfaction.
what is the appropriate  remedy here
I note that Black Horse  has already offered Mr L the option to give back the car, which is what  he 
originally requested as resolution to his complaint.
Mr L now wants to buy the car at a reduced price,  rather than to give it back. I dont think this is an 
unreasonable request, taking relevant  legislation  into account and especially  as Mr Ls explained that 
hes put a lot of time and money into the car while hes had it.
So Ive gone on to think about what would  be a fair reduction. The cash  price  attached to the car 
when Mr L got it was around  £14,610 and I think it likely this would have been set with the incorrect 
lower mileage in mind.  It isnt clear what  the actual  mileage of the car was at that time,  but it seems  
likely it was significantly  higher and I think this would  mean that the car was worth less than Mr L paid 
for it.
There is no perfect formula in deciding what a fair reduction should be. Having considered everything 
including the original  purchase price  of the car, age, make and so on, as well as considering 
valuations of the car based  on differing  mileage, I think a reduction of £1,000 to be deducted from an 
early settlement figure is reasonable  in the circumstances.
In August 2018 Black Horse quoted a settlement  figure of approximately £8,200, but that was only 
valid until 29 September 2018. So theyll need to generate an up-to-date settlement figure  for Mr L 
and then reduce it by £1,000.
Black Horse have  raised a concern about their future liability if Mr L accepts the price reduction and 
the car develops further faults or there are other  issues.  Their liability, save  for any issues relating to 
the incorrect  odometer, isnt necessarily extinguished  by Mr L settling  the agreement in line with my 
proposed decision. It is difficult to predict, what, if any future issues might arise,  but this service could 
potentially consider  a future complaint about issues that flow from Black Horses liability as the finance 
provider and that havent already been addressed  by this decision. Consideration of any future  
complaint would of course need  to take account of what has happened so far.
I appreciate that Mr L may not be happy with the reduction  Ive decided is fair. So I think its 
reasonable for him to have the option of choosing the original offer from Black Horse as an 
alternative.
Black Horse had already  offered to pay Mr L £350 for the trouble and inconvenience caused. And 
regardless of which option Mr L chooses to take,  I think its reasonable for this award to still be paid.
Ref: DRN21986145So my provisional decision  is to allow Mr L to return the car on the terms that Black Horse  has already 
offered. Or to purchase the car based on the recommendation Ive made below.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to ask Black  Horse Limited to:
1.Provide Mr L with a £1,000 price  reduction to be deducted from an up-to-date settlement 
figure and to be made available to Mr L for 28 days from the date that this decision is 
accepted. Black Horse  should  also pay Mr L £350 in compensation (if it hasnt already made 
this payment to Mr L)
2. OR if Mr L chooses:
collect the car and end the agreement with nothing further to pay
refund the deposit  of £4,130 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement*
pay £350  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused (if it hasnt already made 
this payment to Mr L)
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Black Horse Limited  to take off tax from this interest.
Black Horse Limited must give Mr L a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for 
one.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2198614