K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that St Andrews  Insurance Plc sold her a home  insurance  policy  
without telling her about  important limits  on the cover. Shes also unhappy about the 
increase in her premiums.
background
In 2018 Mrs B brought a complaint to this service. She was unhappy that a claim for storm 
damage to her roof had been declined by St Andrews. St Andrews said the damage Mrs B 
had claimed for hadnt been  caused  by a storm. It thought rain had been getting  in through  
the roof for some time. Our adjudicator  didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied with the 
investigation carried out by St Andrews and felt its decision was correct.
Mrs B made another complaint to St Andrews. She said she wasnt  told that her policy only 
covered quite severe storm  damage which would be relatively rare in the UK or the exclusion 
for wear and tear. She was also unhappy  that her premium had increased on renewal even 
though her claim wasnt accepted.
St Andrews  said the terms  and conditions of her policy provided information on what  was 
and wasnt covered. With regard to the premium it said it couldnt  provide a precise 
explanation for the increase in her premium  because  the way it calculates prices is 
confidential. It said Mrs B didnt have to accept the offer to renew  if she was unhappy with it.
Mrs B brought a further complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. He looked 
at whether St Andrews has acted reasonably and in line with its terms and conditions. He 
was satisfied that St Andrews had. He thought St Andrews had also satisfactorily explained 
the premium increases  since  2012.
As Mrs B didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should make  it clear  that this service  is not a regulator. It cant require 
St Andrews  to change  the wording in its documentation. Our role is to try to resolve  
individual complaints against financial businesses.
With regards to the peril,  storm,  its defined  in the policy  as a period of violent  weather  with 
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or hail or 
snow of such intensity  or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.  
Some other insurers refer to this wind speed  in their definition of storm while  others have a 
lower wind speed  or dont  define the term at all. I dont think  this term is particularly unusual. 
But even if I did think it was something St Andrews should have brought  to the attention  of 
Mrs B before she bought the policy and that the policy had been mis-sold, I wouldnt  
necessarily uphold the complaint.
I dont uphold complaints just because a policy has been mis-sold  the mis-sale must also 
have prejudiced the consumer. In this case I dont  think it did prejudice  Mrs B. Thats 
Ref: DRN28112962because for the four weeks  prior to the date of the loss there werent  any weather conditions 
in Mrs Bs local area that Id consider to be a storm.
With regard to the exclusion for wear and tear, general maintenance issues are excluded 
from the cover provided by Mrs Bs policy  this is normal for home insurance policies. I think 
St Andrews  did enough  to draw this to her attention.  It said in the introduction to the policy:
Important  information
Remember, no policy covers everything. 
We do not cover certain things such as wear and tear, maintenance or loss or damage that 
happens gradually over a period of time.
I cant tell St Andrews what price it should have charged Mrs B for her home insurance. That 
was for it to decide,  based in part on the risk it thought there was of her needing to make a 
claim and its wider  commercial requirements. What  I can do though, when a consumer 
complains about  the price  theyve been  charged, is look at whether the insurer  has treated 
them fairly and whether  it can explain  why its charged the price it has.
We asked St Andrews to show us how it calculated Mrs Bs premiums from 2012.  I cant 
share the information its provided to us with Mrs B because its commercially  sensitive and 
confidential. But Id like to reassure her that Ive checked it very carefully.
I can see that St Andrews  took into account  that Mrs B lost her no claims discount after 
making a claim for theft in 2012.  It also said before 2015 Mrs B benefited from a lower rate 
than she would otherwise have done  because it had mistakenly recorded her property as a 
house rather than a bungalow and it regards bungalows as higher risk. Im satisfied 
St Andrews  has been able to explain to us why Mrs Bs premiums increased.  I think  its 
treated her fairly and in line with the way it would have treated all its other customers  in 
similar circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811296