K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Countrywide  Assured Plc didnt cancel their policies when they 
said they asked  it to.
background
In 2001, and then again in 2006,  Mr and Mrs P took out decreasing term assurance plans. 
Both of these policies  were due to run until May 2019. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs P paid off their mortgage. They say they contacted Countrywide at the 
time in order  to cancel  the policies as they no longer needed  the protection.  But in February  
2019 Mr and Mrs P received a letter from Countrywide telling them  the policies would be 
shortly coming to an end. 
Mr P called Countrywide to find out why the policies hadnt been cancelled  when  he 
contacted them in 2017 and asked it to refund the premiums that had been paid since that 
time. But Countrywide said it had no record of any previous  contact and therefore didnt 
agree to refund any premium. 
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with Countrywides response so they referred their complaint  to 
this service. Mr and Mrs P supplied a copy of their mortgage redemption  letter  to show  that 
the mortgage finished in 2017 and said they would have made contact  with Countrywide to 
cancel the policies at some  point shortly after this. They said they didnt notice the premiums 
were still being taken out of their account as the company  had changed and so they didnt 
realise the direct debit  related to these policies. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and found that Countrywide hadnt done anything  
wrong. He said there was no record of Mr and Mrs P contacting Countrywide in 2017 and so, 
without evidence that it had done something  wrong, he couldnt ask it to refund the 
premiums. And he said that, as Mr and Mrs P cancelled the direct debit when they found  out 
they were still paying for the policy, they hadnt incurred any further costs for the policy 
cover. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigator  and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs P feel strongly about this matter  and I appreciate  that this 
will be disappointing  for them - Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this outcome.
The policies that relate to this complaint provide  lump sum benefits  in the event of death or a 
critical illness. Cover  such as this can be valuable protection so I wouldnt expect 
Countrywide to cancel the policies without a clear  instruction to do so. And Countrywide says 
it requires written confirmation from both policyholders on a joint policy to make  sure all 
parties are happy to cancel the cover   I think this is a reasonable requirement. 
Mr P has been unable to give exact  details about when he contacted Countrywide in 2017  - 
he has said it was at some point after their mortgage  was redeemed. But Countrywide has 
Ref: DRN25155952told us it has no record of any contact  from Mr and Mrs P in 2017 on this account. So I need 
to consider whether I think its more likely Mr and Mrs P did instruct Countrywide to cancel  
the policy in 2017.
Countrywide has supplied  copies of its internal records which show  the first notes recorded  
on Mr and Mrs Ps account was in March  2019,  when Mr P contacted it after receiving its 
letter informing them the cover was soon to end. I appreciate that just because  there  isnt a 
record of any conversation in 2017,  it doesnt mean a phone call wasnt  made. But I have to 
consider what I think is more likely to have happened and as Countrywide  has recorded the 
notes in 2019 I have no reason to doubt  it would also have made a record if it was contacted  
in 2017.
Ive also listened  to recordings of the phone calls Mr P had with Countrywide  in March this 
year. And in both of these  calls Countrywide said it would  need a letter signed by both 
Mr and Mrs P  as they were joint policy holders   in order  to cancel the cover.  So if contact  
was made  in 2017, its likely Mr and Mrs P would also have  been  asked to provide such  a 
letter in order to cancel  the cover. Countrywide has said it hasnt received any 
correspondence.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Ive been told and the documentation given by 
both parties. And while I dont doubt it is Mr and Mrs Ps honest  recollections that they 
contacted Countrywide  to cancel the policies two years ago, I dont have the evidence to 
show that contact  was made prior to Mr Ps phone call in early  2019. 
Mr and Mrs P also said they werent notified when the insurance provider changed to 
Countrywide and they feel they should  have received  regular correspondence.  Countrywide 
said it sent a letter  to Mr and Mrs P when  it took over the policies  in 2014 but Mr and Mrs P 
say they didnt receive it - I understand Countrywide  has now sent a copy  of the letter to 
them. But Ive noted that in one of the telephone conversations with Countrywide Mr P did 
confirm he had received  a letter  from the original provider telling them that the policies were 
being transferred.  And it appears  that, even if Mr and Mrs P didnt receive the letter  from 
Countrywide, the original  provider  was able to give them  the details when they contacted  it.
So I think its more likely  than not Mr and Mrs P were made aware  of the change  in provider, 
even if they dont recall  this now. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ps concerns about the lack of contact since  Countrywide 
took over the account. However, there wouldnt be an expectation  on providers of these 
types of products to send regular updates - the fact Countrywide hasnt made any further 
contact isnt unusual  or surprising.  So this doesnt alter my decision.
So on balance, after taking everything into consideration,  I dont  think  that Countrywide has 
done anything  wrong. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Ref: DRN25155953Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515595