K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr E payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI, which covered  Mrs and Mr Es mortgage. The 
first mortgage started in 1992. Lloyds knows that it sold mortgage PPI to Mrs and Mr E, and 
it has some  information about  the premiums paid. But it says it cannot be sure from its 
records when the PPI was actually sold. It says its records say the PPI actually started in 
January 2001.   
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr E disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mrs and Mr Es comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold their 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mrs and Mr E have  said the PPI was added without their knowledge. However  it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that they present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair 
to require someone to prove they didnt  do something, especially when it was such a long 
time ago. Mrs and Mr E have a strong  belief  that they didnt agree to PPI but, not surprisingly 
so many years later, have not been  able to produce evidence of this. 
Whereas, although Lloyds sold the PPI, the insurer was actually a different organisation; and 
its likely  the insurer would  have  written to Mrs and Mr E to confirm it had set up the policy, 
what the terms of cover  were, and what the premiums would be. So, although I cant be 
certain, its more likely than not Mr and Mrs E were told about the PPI policy at the time, 
even if they dont now remember it.
I realise this must be frustrating for Mrs and Mr E, as they are convinced they didnt agree to 
PPI. But, without stronger  evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Es consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Lloyds have assessed the complaint on the assumption it recommended the PPI to 
Mrs and Mr E. I think thats a fair approach as it this means Lloyds had a higher standard  
to reach  during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Es particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of 
Ref: DRN25370192Mrs and Mr Es situation at the time.  Its likely Mrs and Mr E were  eligible for the policy.  
And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr E received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need  to fall 
back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the mortgage. This all 
would have put Mrs and Mr E in a more secure  position, if theyd eventually lost income  
due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been  told anything  to suggest 
they couldnt afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I think  the PPI would have been 
potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mrs and Mr E took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr E would have been  affected  by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2537019