K800x#10complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a Payment 
Protection 
Insurance (PPI) policy in 1994 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 27 December 2018, which is attached and 
forms 
part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs Ms representative and Nationwide 
Building Society have confirmed that they have received my provisional decision. Neither 
Mr and Mrs M nor the Business have submitted any further comments or evidence for me to 
consider. 
my findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I assume that Mr and Mrs M do not accept my decision. But neither the Business nor Mr and 
Mrs 
M has presented anything new for me to consider, and I dont see any reason to go 
behind my findings in my provisional decision. So, Im not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
my final decision
For 
the reasons stated above and in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms 
policy 
was sold by Nationwide Building Society. And I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
against it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
DRN28454472Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a Payment  Protection 
Insurance (PPI) policy in 1994 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M complained to this Service that Nationwide missold  them PPI. Mr and Mrs M say it was 
necessary to take out the PPI in order to get the insurance. Nationwide  explained that its records 
showed Mr and Mrs M bought the mortgage and the PPI through an intermediary.
The adjudicator investigated  the matter and found that Nationwide was not responsible for the PPI 
sale; they said the broker  was probably  responsible  for the sale of the PPI.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Although Nationwide  has said that it accepts responsibility for the PPI complaint, it has also said that it 
didnt sell the PPI policy and that it was sold by an intermediary.  And, I need to decide  if Nationwide is 
responsible for the sale of the policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as 
it shouldve done. But, if I dont think Nationwide  was responsible for the sale of the policy  to Mr and 
Mrs M, then Im not able to say that Nationwide  did anything wrong  or that it needs to put anything 
right.
Having considered  all the evidence  in this case, I dont  think Nationwide is responsible for looking  at 
this PPI complaint. I know  this will be a disappointing result for Mr and Mrs M so I will explain  why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided and at what Mr and Mrs M say about  how the policy was sold 
to them in 1994. They recall  they were  sold the policy  in their own home  and told they had to have the 
PPI because it was a condition of their mortgage. They say the Intermediary held himself out as an 
employee of Nationwide and at no point during  the sale did he confirm an independent  status to them. 
Nationwide say that the intermediary was independent of them. It has provided a copy  of an 
Intermediary Checklist completed at the time the mortgage  was applied for. I can see that the 
Intermediary is named  on this form as a Senior Financial  Advisor on the Intermediary Checklist.  Mr 
and Mrs M say that this indicates he is one of many and not an independent  financial adviser in his 
own right. I take this to mean that they say he was employed  by or on behalf of Nationwide.
I have thought  about  what Mr and Mrs M have said very carefully. And I agree with Mr and Mrs M that 
the Intermediarys  FCA registration  number, agent code and/or intermediary code appear not to be 
listed on the check list. I also accept that his company name appears not listed on the checklist.  But 
that is not to say that the Intermediary was working  for (or on behalf of) Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs M also say that Nationwide should have at least one other piece  of information that 
confirms a commission  was paid to the Intermediary Given the passage  of time not all evidence  is 
available from the time of sale so I do not find it surprising or unusual  that neither Mr and Mrs M nor 
Nationwide have been able to provide all the evidence from the time of sale.  I base my decision on 
the available evidence to me.3I have  seen a copy of the Mortgage Application Form signed by Mr and Mrs M. Its on Nationwide 
headed paper, but that does not automatically mean that Nationwide arranged the mortgage or the 
PPI  it simply confirms that it was the finance provider.
Nationwide has  told us that it was not its business practise, at the time the mortgage and PPI were 
taken out, to attend peoples homes. It also says that its branches at the time had agreements with 
intermediaries (independent brokers) to process applications. And at this stage, the evidence I have 
seen from the time of sale (which tends to carry more weight) persuades me that the Intermediary 
filled the Mortgage Application Form with Mr and Mrs M following some discussion about PPI and the 
mortgage. I accept what Mr and Mrs M say that this took place at their home. And this is when I think 
Mr and Mrs M decided to buy the mortgage with the PPI. 
So Im  currently persuaded the mortgage and PPI were sold by the Intermediary whos details are 
entered on the Intermediary form. I have been provided a copy of the Intermediary Form and having 
carefully considered the Intermediary Form I think the form was for independent brokers rather than 
employees of Nationwide. And I have seen no evidence to make me think the Intermediary was 
working for or on behalf of Nationwide. On balance, I think that the Intermediary was independent. 
Ive considered  the possibility that the Intermediary simply introduced Mr and Mrs M to Nationwide and that 
Nationwide then sold the PPI. But, I havent seen any of the kind of evidence that could typically suggest that 
Nationwide sold this policy  for example, something to show it contacted Mr and Mrs M to discuss their 
circumstances and potential requirements for protection, or directly sent them a PPI application form. 
Taking everything  into account, I dont think its likely at this stage that Nationwide sold this policy. It 
follows it also wasnt responsible for carrying out the sale properly. So Im intending not to uphold this 
PPI mis-sale complaint against Nationwide. 
But although I  do not currently think Nationwide are responsible for the sale, it was the lender. And it 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because : 
Nationwide  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) -
so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that
was unfair.
To  put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought  about everything Mr and Mrs M has said. But these points dont change my decision. 
what the  business needs to do
Nationwide has  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any extra interest 
they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should also pay 
Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they
dont pay tax.
my provisional decision
For the  reasons given above, my provisional decision is that Nationwide Building Society is not 
responsible for this PPI sale and I do not intend to uphold this complaint against it. 4So Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But because it is the lender Nationwide Building  Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I now invite  Mr and Mrs M and Nationwide Building Society to send  me any more information  or 
comments to look at by 27 January 2019. After that, Ill issue  my final decision.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman