K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
Background 
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Halifax has given me a copy of the PPI application form that Mr G 
completed and signed.  This was separate to the mortgage application, so I think  it was 
clear they were separate products. The application  form had a brief description of the 
cover and set out what the monthly  cost and benefit would be. Mr G requested the policy 
to be in his name only and signed to agree to take it out. And I think its more  likely he 
did so knowing he didnt  have to take it out if he didnt want  to. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example Mr G was 
eligible for the cover and although he had some  sick pay and savings, the policy  would 
Ref: DRN22786222have paid out for longer  if he was unable to work. And it also meant he could have used 
his employee benefits and savings  for other essential expenditure. 
There was nothing about Mr Gs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr G says he had an injury around three years  before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong  for Halifax  to have recommended  the 
policy to him. I say this because while Mr G did take some time off work  as a result  of the 
injury, he hasnt mentioned any ongoing  or recurring  issues  in relation  to it. So I think  its 
unlikely he was expecting  to rely on the policy as a result of the injury in the future.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs G as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs G would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons  to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Gs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN22786223my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2278622