K820x#14Complaint
Mr V says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep 
things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision,  rather than any other  business.
Background
Mr V bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a store card.  It covered him in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Vs store  card application had a section for PPI, which gave an overview of what it was 
for and what it cost. There was a place he could sign if he wanted to buy the policy, which  
could be left blank  if he didnt want it. It reiterated that he should only sign there if he wanted 
PPI. Mr V signed specifically for PPI, separately to signing  the agreement  as a whole. I think 
the agreement  made  it clear what hed be signing for if he chose PPI, and it was ultimately 
Mr Vs responsibility to read what he was signing. Overall, I think  that Mr V was made  aware 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time,  though  I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing  so after so many years.
FICL didnt  give Mr V tailored personal  advice about buying PPI, so they didnt  have to check  
it was right for him or ask him about his savings or work benefits. They did have to give Mr V 
enough information to decide  for himself  if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mr V about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, Mr V chose  to take out the policy, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it looks like he was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions  or limitations.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Vs work benefits and savings, and it offered him 
more comprehensive  cover,  such as for when  his sick pay reduced to just a fraction of his 
normal pay. It also meant he could effectively protect his savings and use them for other 
things. So the policy could have been useful for Mr V if something went  wrong. And even if 
Mr V kept his balance  low, the cost was proportionate to the balance,  so that wouldve kept 
the cost low too. Then the policy would still be there in case there was then a larger balance 
to cover.  Lastly,  the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis, so Mr V could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. So overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put him off taking it out.
Ref: DRN20114942My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2011494