K820x#14complaint
Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3, as executors of their late fathers  estate, complain about a home  
equity release mortgage taken out with Scottish Widows Limited. The mortgage  was taken 
out in 2004 by their parents Mr and Mrs W. Mrs W died in April 2018 and Mr W died in 
December 2018.
Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 say theres no way of knowing what  their parents thought, but 
dont think Mr and Mrs W would have agreed to the mortgage if theyd  understood all the 
details. Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 are particularly concerned about the fact the mortgage 
agreement said it was for a 15-year term.
background
In November 2004 Mr and Mrs W took out an equity  release mortgage  for £75,900  on an 
interest roll-up basis, so they didnt need to make any monthly payments. 
Mr W2 complained to Scottish  Widows in August 2018. In that he suggested the following 
interpretation of events:
Mr and Mrs W didnt understand they were  taking out a loan of £75,900 that could cost 
them just under  £215,000 on a house worth  £250,000 at the time.
They didnt  understand they would have to pay back  the loan in 2019 at the ages of 92 
and 90, thus making themselves homeless.
If the mortgage contract has been varied,  it had been done without Mr and Mrs Ws 
agreement.
The legal  advice was misleading and likely to have given Mr and Mrs W a false 
assurance about the repayment of the loan.
Scottish Widows  didnt  uphold the complaint so it was referred  to us. Our investigator  didnt  
think the complaint  should be upheld. He said that he was satisfied that the paperwork was 
clear and that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt  have  been made homeless in 2019. 
Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 didnt accept  our investigators view,  saying hed misread the 
agreement and While I understood that there might be reasons  why our complaint might  not 
be upheld, I did not think that the reason would be that your officer  cannot  understand plain 
English. As an agreement couldnt  be reached its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 wont  
take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  this complaint in the way that I have. Ours  is an 
informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated  on what I consider to be the crux 
of the complaint. Although  Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep my comments  to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome.
Ref: DRN26019762Scottish Widows  didnt  give Mr and Mrs W advice about the suitability of the equity release 
mortgage. Having  reviewed the documents,  Im satisfied Scottish Widows did enough to 
make Mr and Mrs W aware of the likely costs (including roll-up  interest) if they went ahead. It 
also ensured that they sought legal advice about  the contract they were entering into.
The amount  borrowed, interest  rate and total anticipated debt in 15 years  time were all set 
out clearly in the mortgage agreement. Scottish Widows didnt give Mr and Mrs W any 
advice about whether  this was best for them; it simply set out what  theyd applied for in the 
mortgage agreement.
Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 have focussed on the fact the mortgage  agreement says it has a 
15-year term. They say this means their parents  would have been homeless at the ages  of 
90 and 92. Theyve  been quite clear that they think our investigator was wrong when he told 
them that wouldnt have  happened. But our investigator was right, and Mr W1, Mr W2 and 
Ms W3 have  misdirected themselves.
Whilst the agreement  says it has a 15-year term, it also says The Bank  agrees that it will not 
enforce any of its rights under the Mortgage  other than on the occurrence of (i) a Repayment 
Event or (ii) a breach of this Agreement in terms of Condition (E).
I can only assume that Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 havent understood what Scottish Widows 
meant by not enforcing any of its rights. That means  that Scottish Widows would take no 
action to take possession of the property (including  at the end of the 15 years)  unless Mr and 
Mrs W had breached condition E or a repayment event occurred.
A repayment event  is the death  of the last borrower  or when the last borrower  moves  into 
sheltered accommodation or residential  care. So if either Mr W or Mrs W survived past the 
end of the 15-year term and were  still living in the property then Scottish  Widows would not 
enforce its security; that is, it wouldnt seek possession of the property. Section E includes 
default provisions  such  as a borrower becoming  bankrupt or the property being compulsorily 
purchased.
We see many agreements like this and I can reassure Mr W1, Mr W2 and Ms W3 that 
despite what they think, their parents would not have been evicted from their property after 
15 years.  Whilst the agreement at the time said the borrowers would have to ask for the 
mortgage to be extended, thats  not what would have happened in reality.  If Mr W and/or 
Mrs W had been still living in the property as the 15-year period was coming to an end 
(which would have  been in November  2019),  Scottish  Widows  would have contacted them to 
check they wanted the mortgage to continue on the same basis until they died or went  into 
residential care. It would have been that straightforward, and there would  have been  no risk 
of eviction at that time.
Having carefully considered this matter I cant reasonably find that Scottish Widows acted 
incorrectly when it set up this mortgage that Mr and Mrs W applied  for. Not can I safely  find 
that the mortgage has been run in a manner other than as was set out in the contract they 
entered into. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN26019763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1, Mr W2 and 
Ms W3 (on behalf of the estate of Mr W) to accept or reject  my decision before 12 January 
2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2601976