K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  her home  insurer Society of Lloyds (SOL) in regard to a claim 
she made to it after finding  a major water  leak at her home.
background
Ms S came  home one evening in March 2018  to find water  running down the walls  and from 
light fittings. Subsequent investigations  showed  two leaks  on pipes below the bath.  Ms S 
arranged to stay elsewhere and SOL began  stripping and drying the property.
SOL believed Ms S was checking the electrics.  Ms S was concerned when she found the 
heating had been switched on to dry the property as she wasnt  aware  that SOL had checked  
the electrics were safe. She switched  the heating off.
When the property  was dry SOL began reinstating it. Ms S wasnt happy  with the work SOLs  
contractors were doing. One day, when the contractor was installing the bathroom floor,
Ms S told the contractor to finish that job and then leave, and not come back. Two days later 
Ms S found more work had been completed.
SOL said it would settle in cash for outstanding work. It said a fair settlement would be
£1,750. Ms S noted that didnt include replacing her kitchen. SOL said the units could be 
reinstated but Ms S didnt agree. And she thought SOL had previously agreed to replace the 
units as well. Ms S got her own report to show what work was needed at the property. But 
she didnt get the work  priced that SOL had agreed needed doing (and was accounted for in 
the settlement  offer made).
The report  was provided in July 2018  but, by this point there had been a further leak at the 
property. The second leak had also affected the kitchen. SOL began dealing  with that leak, 
Ms S raised further concerns and a further  complaint was logged. That is now being  
considered by our investigator under a separate complaint reference.
Regarding the first claim and complaint, Ms S also said SOL hadnt accounted for replacing 
the lounge carpet that it had lifted. She also said the stair carpet hadnt been lifted  but was 
water damaged, particularly the underlay. She said SOL hadnt offered to replace that. Ms S 
said shed paid £800 from her own pocket to move into the alternative accommodation, 
which SOL hadnt  reimbursed. This cost included replacing small appliances,  such  as the 
kettle, which had been damaged by the water leak. But she noted that all her appliances had 
been soaked and SOL had never had them tested and she hadnt  used  them since for fear 
they were unsafe.
SOL said it had replaced the small appliances  that Ms S had needed to move  into the 
alternative accommodation. It said the remainder of her contents claim hadnt progressed  
because she hadnt cooperated with the loss adjuster. Ms S said the loss adjuster had flatly 
refused to do anything  more, hadnt responded to her emails and had closed her file.
Our investigator felt Ms S needed to get a price for the work SOL had accepted it was liable 
for. She said SOL should review the work it had done in the lounge and on the stairs and 
landing and test the electrics.  She said SOL should pay £200  compensation.
Ms S said she couldnt get a price  for the works  SOL had accepted were necessary. She felt 
the investigator hadnt paid enough heed to her surveyors  report which  commented  on 
Ref: DRN22468662various aspects of damage and necessary repair. SOL didnt respond to the view.
On 12 February 2020 I issued a provisional  decision. Both parties acknowledged receipt of 
my findings  and said theyd respond. Ms S asked  for extra  time to reply but said she 
disagreed with my findings which, she said, contained inconsistencies. Following these 
contacts our investigator contacted both parties  again on several occasions, reminding them 
responses were outstanding and that the original deadline, as well as the extended deadline 
for replies  had passed. A final deadline  for responses to be given by of 22 April 2020 was 
communicated to both parties. Neither party provided anything further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
what I can consider
This complaint is complicated somewhat by the further damage  and complaints which  follow 
and which  Im unable  to consider as part of this complaint. It may well be that more  damage 
and work  is now necessary at Ms Ss home as a result of the further leaks  but my focus will 
be on the first leak and damage and whether SOLs response in that respect has been  fair 
and reasonable.
The period  under which we can usually consider a complaint ends  at the point  the insurer 
issues its final response on the complaint. Here the loss adjuster, on behalf of SOLs 
managing agent,  responded to Ms Ss complaint  on 4 May 2018.  The adjuster said Ms S 
could complain to SOL if she remained unhappy. It isnt clear  if Ms S did complain to SOL but 
she did come to us and, when our investigator  asked SOL about issuing a final response, it 
said, on 13 August 2018, that it would forego that and just let us consider the complaint. SOL 
later clarified that it wasnt prepared  to allow us to look at anything  that happened  later and/or 
in respect of further  leaks as part of this complaint. So both parties are clear I will be 
assessing what happened,  in respect  of the first leak only, and only up until 13 August 2018.  
For activity regarding this first claim and complaint which  occurred later, SOL will have to 
deal with that as part of other complaints that Ms S has since  raised with both it and us.
contents
Neither party has been particularly clear about  this, Ms S is adamant  she hasnt raised  a 
contents claim but she is unhappy  that SOL hasnt paid for certain contents items.  On that 
note Ms S should  be aware that Id expect an insurer,  where both building and contents  
cover are provided, to act in respect  of both buildings and contents damage  that is notified  to 
it. I think SOL has done that here. Although  Im also satisfied that it hasnt handled  the 
contents element  very well.
From what  Ive seen I dont think Ms S is currently out of pocket  as far as contents  items 
which she needed to take into alternative  accommodation are concerned.  From what Ive 
seen, I believe she purchased sufficient contents and SOL reimbursed  her outlay. If Ms S 
doesnt agree then Ill consider any clear  and specific evidence and information she has 
about what she believes to be outstanding.
Ref: DRN22468663Regarding other contents items  in the kitchen,  Ms S says all appliances need replacing.  As 
far as any of these items dont fall for consideration as part of the second claim, then SOL 
should consider  them  now.
Ms S says her sofa was damaged during the first incident. If that is the case,  and it wasnt  
affected by the later leak, then SOL should consider it now.
The lounge and hall carpet were lifted to aid drying.  As far as Im aware these havent been 
settled by SOL. It says Ms S hasnt allowed it access to assess  what is needed. But seeing  
as SOL took the carpets  up in the first place it could and should have thought then about 
what would  be needed later for their reinstatement. And Im not persuaded that Ms S would 
have knowingly refused to cooperate with it. It needs  to replace or pay for replacing these 
carpets.
Similarly the stair carpet  hasnt been assessed for replacement.  Whilst it wasnt  felt 
necessary to lift this to aid drying,  I think it likely needs replacing  following the leak and work 
that was done at the property. Unless SOL can convince me otherwise, I think it needs to 
replace, or pay for replacing the stair carpet.
building repairs
SOL offered  £1,750 for Ms S to do the work. This didnt include any allowance for replacing  
the kitchen units.  Ms S said she was initially told the lower units  would be replaced. Ms S has 
been unable  to show what it will cost her to complete work SOL has said it will cover  so 
I cant reasonably conclude that SOLs  estimate  falls short  of the necessary cost for repair 
work. I can, however, make some  findings about the key issues  that the parties have reached 
a stalemate over and require SOL to review its settlement cost accordingly.
I have no way to know  what the contractors may have said to Ms S on site. Whilst I hear 
what she says she was told about the kitchen,  that is clearly  not what  was agreed  between 
the contractor and the insurer. And whilst the initial scope for work says all the units  need to 
be removed it doesnt allow  for their replacement. And Ms Ss report doesnt  suggest the 
units need replacing due to water  damage. So Im not persuaded it is fair to say SOL should 
be replacing the whole kitchen.
However, Ms Ss report does identify a number of issues with the installation  carried out by 
SOLs contractors, either when the units were  removed  and/or when  the kitchen was 
reinstated. None  of the problems identified seem  like they might have been impacted  or 
caused by any further water  leak. Assuming that is the case and none  of the items Ive listed 
here will be superseded by any further  leak repair, I think SOL needs to arrange  to carry out 
work to rectify the issues identified in 10.2.1  10.2.17 (although I note 10.2.16 relates to 
replacing the kitchen  ceiling  which I understand SOL has agreed  it will do/pay  for), or pay 
Ms S so they can be rectified.
The report  notes various issues in the bathroom.  To me these all seem likely relate to work  
SOL undertook and which it completed poorly.  The report  also records that the toilet  pan is 
extremely stained. Ms S says this is because of use by the contractors during repair.  I think 
the contractors did likely  need to use the facilities of the property during their work. I havent  
seen that they cleaned  the property when they left or that the staining likely pre-dates  their 
work. Im satisfied that SOL should  resolve all the issues in the bathroom as recorded  in 
points 10.3.1  10.3.5 of the report,  or pay for them to be resolved.
Ref: DRN22468664Ms Ss report says the decoration carried out in the living room  has been done  to a poor 
standard. Staining is still present and some paint transfer has occurred to the gas fire. I think  
SOL needs  to resolve the decoration in the living room in line with point  10.4.1  and 10.4.2 of 
the report, or pay Ms S for this work  to be done.
The report  also notes some work that wasnt completed by SOL,  such  as re-hanging 
radiators. I think these  items are related to work  SOL did and it is, therefore,  liable for their 
completion. Im minded, therefore,  to require SOL to complete the building  work set out in the 
five bullet points  listed within  point 10.5.1  of the report, or pay for this work  to be done.  The 
fifth bullet point  includes reference to the lounge carpet. This is a contents item and Ive 
commented on this previously in my findings.
As I understand it Ms S hasnt had the £1,750  SOL previously offered in settlement. 
Therefore, this amount doesnt need to be taken into account  in respect of the further  
action/payment I intend to require SOL to undertake/make. If Ms S has had this money then 
she can either return it or SOL can deduct  it from any payment found  owing,  or reduce what  
work it will do to account for that cost.
Ms S says that one ring of the hob isnt working  and hasnt been since the leak.  Ms Ss report  
doesnt detail  this and the first mention I see of this issue by Ms S is March  2019, quite a 
long time after the leak (March 2018). Im not persuaded  I can reasonably conclude the hob 
is faulty or, if it is, that this is likely linked to the leak and/or SOLs  repair work. Im not going 
to make SOL repair or replace the hob, or pay for its repair/replacement.
I havent seen  that Ms S incurred  a cost for obtaining the report. If she can show she was 
charged for this and the date she paid it, SOL should reimburse that sum, plus interest*.
electrical system check
It appears that Ms S thought SOL would do this, but SOL thought Ms S would. Usually  the 
insurer would get this check done.  It seems  the system hasnt  been  checked but also that the 
property was otherwise  reinstated and Ms S has been living there, with full power and no 
issues, since June 2018. I think the risk to Ms S then is quite minor but SOL should have the 
system checked now, or pay for this to be done.  Of course if SOL has had the system 
checked since August  2018, perhaps  in relation  to the other claims, then it wont need to do 
that again (subject to adequate proof  being provided  to show the check has been done).
claim handling
I know Ms S is unhappy with the work that was completed at her home,  and her report  does 
show some  re-work  is required. I know Ms S also feels not enough care was taken by 
contractors to look after her home  and that they used  the facilities  at her home  with a 
complete lack of care and respect.  I cant say that is most  likely  the case. The contractors 
havent admitted  to doing things like using the toilet whilst it wasnt plumbed in and I have no 
independent evidence to consider which might let me decide which version  of events (Ms Ss 
or the contractors) is most  likely what happened.
It was far from ideal that work continued even after Ms S told the contractor on site to stop. 
But that contractor  wasnt employed by Ms S. So I can understand to some extent why he 
continued working. But he was working  for the insurer whose customer was Ms S. And an 
insurer always needs to take its customers needs and desires into account.  So the 
contractor should  have stopped work  as directed  by Ms S and sought direction from SOL,  
Ref: DRN22468665with it speaking to Ms S, before doing  anything further.
The repair period wasnt that long, and I dont see there were  any avoidable delays caused 
by SOL.  It is unfortunate  work hasnt been done  to standard and I accept that is upsetting  for 
Ms S.
I note that £50 compensation has already been  paid or offered by the loss adjuster on behalf 
of SOL.  Having considered everything, I think a total of £250 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due to Ms S. If £50 has already  been  paid to and received by Ms S, then only a 
further £200 will now need to be paid by SOL.
It isnt clear if SOL agrees  or disagrees  with my provisional findings. I understand that Ms S 
disagrees with them  but I note she hasnt  chosen  to given me any detail as to why. In any 
event, Ive reviewed what I said and, in the absence of specific  comments or challenges from 
either party, I remain satisfied with my assessment of the complaint. My provisional findings 
are now the findings  of this, my final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Society  of Lloyds  to:
Consider the kitchen appliances  and sofa in line with my comments above.
Replace  or pay to replace the lounge,  hall and stair carpet.
Carry out work at the property, or pay for work  to be done,  to resolve the issues as set out 
in Ms Ss report, as Ive detailed  above.
If proof  of cost and payment for the report is shown, reimburse the cost, plus interest*.
Arrange for the electrical system  at the property to be tested, or pay for this to be done (if it 
hasnt been already).
Pay Ms S a total of £250  compensation, if £50 has already been paid then only a further 
£200 will now need to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. If Society of 
Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Ms S, it 
should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a certificate showing this if she asks  for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2246866