K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 to 
cover a mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say Santander  UK Plc (who were trading  at the time as 
Abbey) miss-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence  for 
me to consider, I need  to make my decision based  on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said,  and make  a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Mr and Mrs S have  made comments about  a claim they hadnt made and general poor 
service by Santander. I have noted  those submissions but the case I have to consider is 
whether PPI policy that was sold to Mr and Mrs S in 2006 was miss-sold. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt miss-sold. I explain  why below.
I think Abbey  made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this. Ill explain why I say 
this. Mr and Mrs S told us that they recalled taking the policy  but they only did so as it was 
intimated that their borrowing  was more likely to be accepted if they did. 
Ive noted the letter  dated 16 November 2005 to Mr and Mrs S titled,  Your  Paymentcare  
Needs and Our Recommendations, it says,
Your Needs
We identified that you wouldnt  be able to afford your monthly mortgage and related 
outgoings if you were  unable to work through accident or sickness.
You told me you wanted £1,096 per month  to cover your monthly mortgage and related 
outgoings, if you couldnt work  through accident  or sickness.    
My Recommendations
I recommend you take out an Abbey Paymentcare policy to cover your monthly  mortgage  
and related outgoings, if you were unable to work through Accident or Sickness to meet your 
needs as identified above.
Ref: DRN28736512I note that this letter contains the language of something that was being  recommended and 
offered rather than something  that had to be taken. And Mr and Mrs S exercised some 
involvement in the process as it was recommended that they take out the policy with for 
accident and sickness cover only rather than with cover for unemployment as well. 
Ive also noted  the mortgage offer dated 23 November 2005.  Section 9 is the insurance 
section. It says, 
Insurance you must take out through Abbey.
Youre not required  to take out any insurance  through Abbey. 
There is nothing in any of the documentation  I have seen that suggests that getting the 
mortgage was dependant on Mr and Mrs S having  to take the PPI. So, having considered all 
the submissions made to me in this case,  it seems  most likely to me that Mr and Mrs S 
chose to take the cover and did so knowing they had a choice.
 
Abbey recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they were  eligible  for the policy and werent affected  by any of the exclusions  
from or limits to the PPI cover. And they seem to have had a need  for the cover. I say this as 
Mr and Mrs S told us that neither of them had sick pay that would give them their full pay for 
a full year if they couldnt work  through  ill health. And they told us they had no other means 
they could rely on. This policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs S for their half of the benefit 
amount, which  was a significant sum,  for up to 12 months and it wouldve paid in addition  to, 
and potentially for longer than, any other pay they may have received. So, thinking about all 
of that, and the potentially  serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your 
home, I think  Mr and Mrs S couldve found this cover  useful.
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
S.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs S, Abbey  also had to give them  clear  
enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Abbey gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I dont think better  information wouldve stopped them  from buying  
it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Santander 
UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Ref: DRN28736513Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2873651