K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford.
background
Mrs D took out ten loans  with Cashfloat  between December 2016 and October 2017.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid
Scheduled number of 
repayments
1 14/12/2016 £400 27/02/2017 2
2 27/02/2017 £500 28/04/2017 2
3 12/05/2017 £400 19/05/2017 2
4 19/05/2017 £400 30/05/2017 2
5 06/06/2017 £700 07/07/2017 4
6 09/07/2017 £400 18/07/2017 2
7 26/07/2017 £600 04/09/2017 3
8 04/09/2017 £600 07/09/2017 2
9 18/09/2017 £750 28/09/2017 4
10 02/10/2017 £750 04/12/2017 4
Mrs D says that she was stuck in a payday lending cycle. Mrs D wants  Cashfloat to remove  
the loans from her credit file. She wants Cashfloat to refund  interest  and charges and pay 
her compensation. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ds complaint be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that Cashfloats  checks before agreeing  loans one to three were proportionate. And 
that based on the information Cashfloat had, loans one to three appeared affordable.
The adjudicator thought  that Cashfloat shouldve  carried  out more  checks  before agreeing 
loans four and five. But as Mrs D wasnt  able to give us bank statements from around the 
time, the adjudicator couldnt say what Cashfloat wouldve seen with better checks.
The adjudicator thought  that for loan six onwards, the pattern of repeated  lending  was 
unsustainable. She recommended that Cashfloat  refund all interest and charges that Mrs D 
paid on loans six to ten with interest  on the refund.  The adjudicator asked Cashfloat to 
remove all mention of loans six to ten from Mrs Ds credit file.
Cashfloat hasnt  replied to the adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint has come  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D 
Ref: DRN27274192could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint.
loans one to three
Before agreeing each of these loans, Cashfloat asked Mrs D for details of her income, living  
costs and regular  credit commitments. I think that Cashfloats checks were proportionate.  
Based on what Mrs D said about  her circumstances,  it appeared that she could afford to 
repay the loans.
Ref: DRN27274193loans four and five
Mrs D took loan four out immediately on repaying loan three. By this time,  Mrs D had been 
borrowing regularly from Cashfloat. I think that this pattern of lending  shouldve reasonably 
prompted Cashfloat to ask Mrs D about her other short term loans before agreeing  loan four.
When it came to loan five, I think it wouldve been  reasonable  to expect  Cashfloat  to 
independently verify the financial information that Mrs D was giving to make sure that she 
wasnt reliant on short term lending  and could sustainably afford to repay the loan.
Although Mrs D has been able to give us some bank statements, these are dated after she 
took out loan five. This means  its difficult for me to say what  Cashfloat wouldve discovered 
with better  checks before  agreeing loans  four and five.
It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about  loans four and five.
Loans six to ten
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mrs D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ds case, I think  this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because:
loan six was Mrs Ds sixth loan from Cashfloat  in about seven months with little break in 
between loans. Mrs D had previously  asked to borrow  twice  from Cashfloat in the same  
month. Mrs D had been taking on new debt shortly after repaying a previous loan. Mrs D 
went on to take out two loans a month in July and September  2017.  
I think that the pattern of lending shouldve  alerted Cashfloat  to the likelihood  that Mrs D 
was having problems managing her money. I think it shouldve been evident  to Cashfloat 
that Mrs D wasnt using  the loans as intended   that is to help with one-off expenses. So 
I think Cashfloat should have been concerned  that Mrs D wouldnt be able to repay the 
loans sustainably.
I think that Mrs D lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ds indebtedness by allowing  her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mrs D had been  borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability to access 
mainstream credit. This kept Mrs D in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So Im upholding  Mrs Ds complaint about  loans  six to ten.
Ref: DRN27274194putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs D paid on loans six to ten;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  that any information about them 
is negative. So all entries about  loans  six to ten should be removed from Mrs Ds credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part and direct Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN2727419