K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA Insurance  UK Plc didnt provide clear enough information about 
the legal  expenses insurance  cover  she took out as part of her home insurance policy. 
Mrs C has brought her complaint to our service through her husband  who is acting as her 
representative. For simplicity Ill only refer to Mrs C in this decision,  even where  the 
arguments have  been put forward  by her husband.
background
 
Mrs C took out an AXA HomeSmart  policy in December 2017  via a price  comparison 
website. She also took out legal expenses insurance cover as an optional  extra.  
Mrs C says that she relied on the information  provided on the policy  summary  to decide 
whether the legal expenses cover was suitable for her needs. But sometime after taking out 
the insurance she read the full policy document and realised the policy  didnt provide cover  
for things  like wills and probate or conveyancing  costs. She says she wouldnt have taken  
out the policy if this had been made clear to her at the point of sale.
Mrs C has also complained about  errors in the policy  wording document.  She says the 
information about additional  legal  services is ambiguous. She says the phone number for 
making a complaint to AXA is incorrect and the document  isnt clear about  which  number to 
contact in the event  of a complaint about the cover itself.
AXA says Mrs C took out the policy  online,  so it was for her to ensure the cover was suitable 
for her needs. It says the policy summary  explains that it doesnt  provide full details of cover  
and refers customers to the full policy  document.  It also says it doesnt believe there is a 
home insurance policy on the market which provides cover for wills, probate  and 
conveyancing costs.
Our investigator assessed Mrs Cs complaint and said the information AXA provided  during 
the sale was clear enough for Mrs C to make  an informed choice. She thought the policy  
document gave  a clear number to contact  the company who handle the legal expenses 
cover and quoted  the page number of the booklet where this number could be found.  She 
also agreed that one of the phone numbers in the policy  document was incorrect  and 
suggested that AXA should  have  it corrected.
Mrs C didnt agree that she shouldve been  expected to read the policy  wording in 
conjunction with the policy summary.  She said the policy summary didnt meet the regulatory  
requirements set out in ICOBS 6. She also wanted evidence that the incorrect phone  
number issue had been rectified  and some compensation  for the disruption  it caused her. 
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25158612The issues  for me to decide are whether I think Mrs C was provided with sufficient  
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  buying the policy, whether the 
policy wording is clear  enough about the additional  legal services  it provides and what,  if 
anything, needs to be done about  the incorrect phone number issue. Ill address each in 
turn.
information provided during sale
Mrs Cs policy was sold online on a non-advised basis.  This means  AXAs responsibility 
during the sale was to provide Mrs C with enough information about the policy to allow her to 
make an informed decision about whether to take it. 
When Mrs C was asked whether shed like legal expenses insurance, she was provided with 
an explanation  about what this was. In particular the price  comparison website  explained 
that this Protects  you against the costs  of being  sued or having  to make a claim against 
someone else under a range of circumstances.  Costs associated with wills, probate and 
conveyancing costs wouldnt fall within this explanation because they arent costs associated  
with being sued or having to make  a claim against  someone else.  So I think  the type of cover 
she was buying  was reasonably clear in the circumstances.  
 
Mrs C says she relied solely on the policy summary  to make her decision. But the 
information contained within that document also makes the type of cover  she was buying 
clear. In particular it states:
Legal expenses - optional extra
Legal expenses  you may incur  to bring actions  against someone who has injured you, 
damaged your house or infringed  your contractual or employment rights.  You are covered  for 
legal costs and expenses and have access to a 24 hour legal helpline.
Mrs Cs Legal Expenses  Policy covers only certain types of claims.  It doesnt cover every 
legal cost that may arise. This isnt unusual and most legal  expenses  policies only provide 
cover for funding disputes in certain  situations  rather than covering the costs of undisputed  
legal work,  like making a will or conveyancing  costs. Its up to an insurer  to decide what  level 
of cover they wish to provide and we wouldnt interfere with that unless we think  theyve 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the individual circumstances  of the complaint.  In this case I 
havent seen anything that makes  me think they have. 
information about additional  legal  services
AXAs policy  document explains that it can offer a discounted  rate for additional legal 
services not covered by the legal  expenses insurances. It gives  examples of some of these 
services which  do include wills and probate and some home  purchase  related costs. 
Mrs C complains that the information about  these additional legal services is ambiguous 
because the document doesnt specifically list everything that is and isnt included. 
Its true that the policy doesnt do this but I dont think this means that AXA needed to do 
anything more. The purpose of the information Mrs C has referred to is to explain  that AXA 
can offer discounted legal services, for issues  not covered by its policy.  But this service  
doesnt form part of the policy. And I dont think its reasonable to expect AXA to list every 
legal issue that it might be able to help with. 
Ref: DRN25158613The policy document gives a phone number  which  customers  can call for a free consultation  
if theyre interested in any additional legal  services. I dont think  AXA needed to do anything 
more than offer this in the circumstances.
incorrect phone number  in policy wording
Mrs C has asked for evidence that the incorrect phone number in the policy document has 
been corrected.  AXA has explained that this error  was corrected in May 2018, and the policy 
document Mrs C was sent for her policy renewal  which she declined   included  the correct  
number. Ive attached a copy of this for Mrs C.
Mrs C has asked that we direct AXA to have its policy wording independently  audited  and 
shes suggested some  organisations that could  help with this. Whilst I appreciate  Mrs Cs 
strength of feeling,  our service is here to identify whether  something  has gone wrong for a 
particular customer,  and if so, how things should  be put right.  In this instance AXA has put 
this issue right so I wont be recommending it does anything  further.  
Mrs C also feels  she should be compensated for the disruption caused by the wrong number 
being included  in her policy wording. I accept that this issue will have caused some  
inconvenience to Mrs C when she attempted to call the incorrect number, but I think  this was 
relatively minor. So overall, I dont  think  any compensation is appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515861