K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2002 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 The credit  card application was marked to indicate Mrs W wanted PPI. This wouldve 
followed a conversation in branch  and I think thats reinforced by the fact she 
declined the other type insurance she was offered. So I think Bank of Scotland  made 
Mrs W aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it. I appreciate she doesnt  remember agreeing to PPI, but I think  thats understandable 
given how long ago it was. 
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs W. She only had sick pay and savings 
worth three or four months of her salary. Whereas the PPI wouldve paid out for up to a 
year and also covered her for unemployment. So it seems to have been right for her.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mrs W doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her 
circumstances it looks like the policy was affordable and couldve been useful to her. 
So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
 Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt  
tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, including what shes  said about how she 
wouldve declined PPI due to an earlier experience relating to a loan.  But the evidence from 
Ref: DRN23350212the time suggests  she was aware of this PPI  having  agreed  to it while declining another 
type of insurance  that was offered at the same time. So these points  dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2335021