K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Close Brothers Limited unfairly  recorded  a default on his credit  file. To 
put things right, hed like them to remove it.
background
In May 2017  Mr W took out a loan for £572 from Close Brothers.  He agreed to repay £52.43 
a month  for a 12 month period.
In May 2018  Close Brothers recorded  the loan agreement as defaulted.  Mr W felt this was 
unfair and raised  a complaint. But Close Brothers  said that theyd reported the default 
correctly, although  they did refund him a £25 fee that was applied when his agreement  was 
passed to their debt recovery  agent.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  He said hes aware  there was a time when there 
werent enough funds in his bank account  to meet the loan repayments  although his bank 
didnt notify him about this. But this happened  when he was unwell and in and out of 
hospital, which meant he couldnt  work and wasnt getting paid. He called Close Brothers to 
tell them  about  this at the time and update  some  of his details. But he doesnt  feel they tried 
to help him.
Mr W is now back at work  and has paid off the balance  on his loan.  Hes pointed out that the 
debt was relatively small, and that he has repaid Close  Brothers considerably more than the 
original loan agreement  was for.
Our investigator looked into what happened, but didnt think  that Close Brothers  had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in applying the default. Mr W disagrees. So the case has been 
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr W will be disappointed, but Im 
not going to ask Close Brothers to remove the default from his credit  file. Ill explain why. 
Mr W has told us that he was unwell and spent time in hospital  in March  2018. He wasnt  
able to work during this period, and a number of his direct debits, including his loan 
repayments to Close  Brothers, were  returned  unpaid. I appreciate  this must have been a 
difficult time for him. And I understand he might not have been aware these payments hadnt 
been made straight away. But I also can see that hed missed a number  of repayments 
before this point.  
Close Brothers first issued a default  notice in August 2017 after his account had been in 
arrears for 3 months. Mr W made a payment in September 2017 that cleared those arrears, 
and maintained his regular  monthly  repayments for the next few months.  But his direct  debits 
were then returned unpaid in December  2017,  January 2018 and February  2018.
Ref: DRN28695102Generally a lender may report an agreement  as defaulted once its at least  3 months in 
arrears, and normally by the time its 6 months in arrears. Close  Brothers sent Mr W a 
number of notices  telling  him that his account  was in arrears,  before issuing a second default  
notice requiring payment by 18 February  2018. As Mr W didnt make  the payment this notice 
demanded, Close Brothers could have fairly recorded a default at this point as his account  
was 3 months in arrears.
Mr W contacted  Close  Brothers on 21 March 2018 to discuss  his loan agreement, and made 
them aware of his situation  and the reason it was in arrears. He told them  he wouldnt be 
able to clear the entire arrears, but it was agreed  that he would make payments to chip 
away at them, whilst  his regular payments would be collected  by direct debit as normal.  On 
the basis of this agreement Close Brothers  said they would review his account  in May 2018,  
and at this point either Mr W would look to settle his balance in full, or they would set up a 3 
month repayment plan.
However, I can see that although Mr W made his regular repayment  in March 2018,  he didnt 
do so in April or May 2018. Nor did he make  any contribution towards  the arrears. And on 31 
May 2018 Close Brothers defaulted his agreement  and passed it to a debt collection agent.
I appreciate that if Mr W had been  given a little bit more time, or perhaps  even if hed 
realised Close Brothers  were defaulting his account on that date, he wouldve  been able to 
clear the arrears. And I understand why hes frustrated about this. But there must always be 
a time when  a business decides  its waited long enough to collect arrears. Mr W hadnt  kept 
to the arrangement to make payments towards his arrears, and in fact theyd increased  since 
Close Brothers issued  the default notice. So when Close Brothers carried  out their review  
they decided to default the agreement. And this is something they were  entitled  to do. So I 
cant say that theyve done anything  wrong here.
I appreciate Mr W doesnt feel Close Brothers took appropriate steps to help him when  he 
told them  about  his illness and his financial situation. But I think  the action  they took in March  
2018 when they agreed this temporary arrangement  with him was reasonable in the 
circumstances. They gave  Mr W an extended period of time to clear his arrears, and were 
willing to accept payment  in instalments  that he said he could  afford.
I cant see that Mr W suggested to Close Brothers  that he wouldnt be able to keep to this 
arrangement, or contacted them at any point  to let them know why he wasnt  able to make  
further repayments. Im also mindful that he wouldve  been  aware  he hadnt made any 
repayments for a considerable amount of time as Close  Brothers had provided him with 
statements for his account and letters advising of the arrears.  So whilst I appreciate this has 
been a difficult  time for him, I dont think Close Brothers have acted unfairly here.
Mr W contacted  Close  Brothers in June 2018  to pay off the outstanding balance on his 
account. But at this point the default  had already been applied. Lenders are required to 
ensure that the data they record  on a customers credit file is accurate. And whilst I 
sympathise with Mr W, and I appreciate hes worried about the impact  the default  might have 
on him, Im satisfied that its accurate for the reasons Ive outlined above. Mr W does have 
the option to add a notice of correction to his credit file to explain the circumstances here if 
he wishes.
Ref: DRN28695103Mr W has referred to the fact hes paid back more  than the original loan agreement was 
worth. I can see that Close Brothers  added a number of charges to his account.  But Im 
satisfied this was done in line with the terms of his loan agreement.  Mr W told them  hed had 
financial difficulties in March 2018. But he also said hed be able to meet  his repayments 
going forward. So I think its reasonable Close Brothers continued to add charges when 
these were missed. 
Close Brothers said that given Mr Ws situation they shouldnt have passed his account to 
their debt collection agent, so theyve refunded a fee of £25 that was added when they did 
this. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2869510