K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about their insurer  Fairmead  Insurance Limited in relation 
to a claim they made when a fire damaged their garden and home.
background
A fire occurred in Mr and Mrs Hs garden on 11 March 2019.  Fairmead  accepted a claim 
from Mr and Mrs H but by the end of the month they were unhappy with its progress. 
Following  a visit from Fairmeads contractor and their chasing of it on a few occasions, they 
believed Fairmead  was unable to complete work at their home. They submitted  their own 
quote for repair produced by their son who is a builder.
Fairmead noted that its contractor had told it the work would cost around £27,000 to 
complete and that Mr and Mrs Hs quote was for £77,000. Fairmead wanted to settle  based  
on what it would cost it to complete  the work, but realised,  given the stark contrast in 
values, that it needed  to verify what that cost would be. It appointed a surveyor.
The surveyor assessed the damage  and the quotes provided to date. The surveyor  said 
Fairmeads contractors quote was not reflective  of what  it would  likely  cost to reinstate the 
property. He felt the quote submitted by Mr and Mrs Hs builder was generally  reasonable in 
terms of scope and price. But he felt there were a few issues  with it. Making  deductions for 
those things, he said, would bring  the price of the quote down to £58,695.
Fairmead told its loss adjuster to offer settlement based on these costs.  Meanwhile the 
adjuster had asked  Mr and Mrs H to obtain  further  quotes. These  were  returned in excess 
of £80,000. The adjuster  said settlement would be at £60,000, rounded  up from £58,695 to 
encourage settlement. Mr and Mrs H were disappointed especially as theyd taken time to 
obtain further quotes. But also because  they felt this value fell short of what it was clearly  
going to cost them to complete the work.
Fairmead later increased the settlement on offer to £61,200  this to include a cost of 
£1,200 for replacement  solar panels. This sum was paid to Mr and Mrs H in August 2018.  In 
the meantime  Fairmead  issued a final response. This said that the policy  allowed it to settle  
based on the cost to it of undertaking work,  so it wasnt prepared to make  any further 
settlement to Mr and Mrs H. But it felt its service had fallen short  of what  it would usually 
expect, so it offered  £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to this service. They said they wanted the full cost of their original 
quote, plus VAT to be paid by Fairmead. They set out a list of other costs and losses  they 
also said they wanted compensating for.
Our investigator noted that the policy allows Fairmead to settle at its cost,  so he didnt  think  
Fairmead had done anything  wrong regarding the settlement it had paid to Mr and Mrs H. 
He noted Fairmead  had accepted the service had been poor and offered compensation. He 
said, that being the case, it should  also pay for some of the costs and losses  Mr and Mrs H 
had set out.
Mr and Mrs H pointed out that Fairmead  hadnt actually determined what  it would have cost 
it to do the work. Fairmead indicated it was generally accepting of the findings. The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I felt Fairmead  did need to do more.  
I issued a provisional decision to explain my views.  My findings were:
Ref: DRN27692762Whilst its true that most insurers do retain the right to settle in cash  at their cost to do the 
work, and that Fairmead has referred  to this right here,  that is not the basis of the offer that 
it made and eventually paid to Mr and Mrs H. Fairmeads surveyors  report  is clear  it has 
assessed the costs  set out in Mr and Mrs Hs initial quote and decided if those figures are 
correct/fair or not. Where  the surveyor disagrees  with the figures he explains why and sets 
out what he thinks the price should  be. It was on the basis of the surveyors  view that 
Fairmead then offered  settlement,  plus a small uplift to encourage Mr and Mrs H to accept 
the offer (although I accept  that this wasnt its intended outcome when it chose to appoint  
the surveyor).
It isnt fair then for Fairmead  to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs further protests at the settlement 
amount based  on the fact that it could settle  the claim based on what it would cost it to do 
the work.  Rather  Fairmead  should  have looked at the surveyors reasoning and costs to 
determine if its settlement  had been  fair.
The disputed costs  arise  from six areas  of the scope, one of which  (solar panels) has been 
resolved. Regarding the solar panels the quote included £1,200 to replace  them.  Whilst the 
surveyor discounted this cost as he felt theyd  need  testing, Fairmead did pay the 
replacement sum as quoted. Theres also VAT to think about. Ive looked  at the remaining 
five items and VAT below.
Cladding  Mr and Mrs Hs quote detailed £7,000  for this work, based on a repair area of 
50 square metres. The surveyor said the area wasnt  that big, only 30 square metres of 
repair was required.  On that basis he said the cost would be £4,500. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think the surveyor is wrong. I think  an amendment  to the sum 
quoted because of the size of the area in question was fair and reasonable.
Conservatory  Mr and Mrs Hs quote was for £18,950. The surveyor  said the sum allowed 
for this should be £15,500. Mr and Mrs H were worried that the surveyor had only had 
cursory regard for internet prices when he determined this figure. Whilst I understand their 
concern, the surveyors report (which  I understand theyve seen) shows  the surveyor 
adjusted the value allowed for the conservatory  due to an arithmetical error found on the 
quote, not because of any general  assessment of conservatory prices.  The quote detailed  
materials at £8,000 and labour at £7,500. That does equal £15,500. I think  the surveyors  
adjustment was fair.
Render  Mr and Mrs Hs quote allowed £1,200 for render  work. The surveyor  said no 
render was damaged by the fire. Ive seen photos  of the house following the fire, and I see 
an area of render is missing. But it seems  Mr and Mrs H were in the process of having  
rendering work done  when the fire occurred. I havent seen that the render was damaged 
by the fire (although I note the heat from the fire did cause other  significant  damage such as 
melting UPVC and charring wood).  Im not currently persuaded that Fairmead should be 
paying for rendering work as I dont think the surveyors conclusion  was unreasonable.
Flat roof  The quoted  sum for this was £6,000. Similar to the cladding  the surveyor  felt this 
sum was wrong because  the area quoted  seemed too large  (48.2 metres squared  quoted  
for an area the surveyor thought was only 27.2 metres squared).  Ive not seen anything to 
make me think the surveyor  is wrong. I think the adjustment  to £3,000 is fair. But I note the 
surveyor has a caveat  on this issue  he doesnt know what  will be required regarding  
Velux windows. He said the sum would be reviewed  once  photos have been provided. I 
havent seen that Fairmead  has done  that. Im going to require  it to do that now.
Ref: DRN27692763Landscaping  The quoted sum for this was £16,950. The surveyor  said £9,000 was 
reasonable as he felt that some of the work/costs had likely already been accounted for as 
part of other  items listed, but also that part of the paths could have been saved. The 
surveyor also said he was making deductions as it wasnt clear if plants/planting was 
covered by the policy. In this respect Im not persuaded  by the surveyors reasoning. Its 
very generalised and, regarding the plants/planting  at least, doesnt seem to take account  
of the cover  Mr and Mrs H have on their policy. I havent seen detail of the planters  its 
possible they might be buildings items  but there is policy cover for contents items  in the 
garden. Further the surveyor  doesnt  seem sure any of the paths could have  been  saved, 
for example he doesnt explain why or to what extent or set out clearly how that would affect 
the cost. I think if Fairmead  wanted  to rely on such a vast deduction it should have properly 
scoped and costed this work. Im minded to make  it pay an additional sum to Mr and Mrs H. 
Fairmead paid £1,305  on top of the surveyors end figure in order  to try and agree 
settlement. The difference on the landscaping work  is £7,950. Taking the additional  
settlement amount from the difference for landscaping  leaves a sum of £6,645 for Fairmead 
to now pay Mr and Mrs H.
VAT  The surveyors sum did not include VAT.  When Mr and Mrs H receive invoices 
showing VAT has been incurred Fairmead  will have to make additional payments to them 
for VAT.
Fairmead has acknowledged that it didnt  handle the claim well at times and offered £250 
compensation. But Ive found that its claim settlement offer wasnt  entirely fair and 
reasonable. I note also that whilst it was early May 2019 when its surveyor issued its report 
on the reasonable settlement figure, Fairmead  didnt provide a claim settlement to
Mr and Mrs H until late August  2019.  And I note that it was in April that Fairmeads own 
contractor said that the work would cost at least £27,000 for it to complete  (a figure  which 
the surveyor felt was vastly under-costed). So Fairmead could have made an interim 
payment to Mr and Mrs H much earlier in the claim. I dont doubt that being without funds 
caused them  some  upset and delay to completing  or even  starting the work.
Ive seen photos of the garden and the back of the house. I think living  with the house  and 
garden like this and not being able to use the garden or conservatory caused them great  
concern and upset.  Even if theyd had funds  to allow them to clear the debris (costed  at
£5,000 on their quote which the surveyor felt was reasonable), that would have helped. Im 
minded to make Fairmead pay Mr and Mrs H a further £250  compensation.
Im not going  to require Fairmead to pay interest  on the whole settlement amount. Its 
settlement was delayed  but Im not persuaded prices would have changed so greatly in just 
a matter of months.  However, the settlement  was short regarding  the landscaping  so I will 
require Fairmead to pay interest on this sum from the date of the quote until settlement is 
made.
Mr and Mrs H want paying in line with the cost to them for annual  leave for several days  
where they met Fairmeads  operatives  and/or spent time dealing with the claim, including 
obtaining quotes. Im not going to make Fairmead  pay this. Im not persuaded the visits 
were anything other than necessary as part of the claim. Whilst I can see that Mr and Mrs H 
put time in gathering information it is always up to a policyholder to support their claim.  I 
have taken their inconvenience  in obtaining  the unnecessary further quotes into account  
when making my compensation award.
Ref: DRN27692764Mr and Mrs H have said they lost money  in respect  of their solar panels  and incurred higher 
energy bills whilst the claim remained unresolved  (the latter because their windows were 
damaged). I think they could always have expected a few months of disruption  and losses  
like this and the policy doesnt offer cover for these type of losses. But as Fairmead could 
have made  a claim settlement earlier (which would arguably have allowed some repairs  to 
have progressed more  quickly), I think its fair to make Fairmead provide some  
compensation for these financial losses. Mr and Mrs H say the panels generate them  £83 
per month, on average That doesnt  seem unreasonable.  They think  they incurred about 
£15 extra in utility costs. Im prepared to say Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs H £180 
being roughly  equivalent  to two months  lost income  from the solar  panels and the cost of 
higher heating bills. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H said they had nothing  further  to submit.  They accepted my findings  but 
wanted it noting that they havent  completed  all the work yet as theyd run out of money.
Fairmead said it agreed in part. But it said it had no record  of a Velux window and, 
regarding landscaping, it would only pay a further  £1,000 being  the policy limit for 
plants/planting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the parties  are generally in agreement with most of my provisional  findings. Ill 
concentrate here on the two areas of issue Fairmead has raised.
Velux windows  in my provisional findings  above, under the sub-heading; flat roof,  I said 
Fairmead needed to consider settlement for a Velux  window. Fairmead says its contractor 
has no record of there  being any such window in the flat roof. It suggests any addition to the 
claim for such  might be betterment.  But it acknowledges that I have said it must  consider 
this item. I remain of the view this is what Fairmead should do. Whilst its contractor says it 
doesnt recall a Velux window, the surveyor who was tasked with assessing the repair 
quote, noted that this element of cost needed considering further. But it wasnt. Fairmead  
should do this now.
Landscaping  Fairmead said it has verified that the additional costs  are not covered  but it 
concedes that the policy  allows £1,000 for plants, so this, it said,  would be the maximum 
additional amount it would pay. I disagree  that Fairmead has shown that the costs for 
landscaping arent a justified part of the claim.  As I explained provisionally Fairmeads 
surveyors assessment regarding these costs was not, in my view, compelling. It lacked 
specific detail regarding  key things like area,  materials and price,  unlike many of the other 
areas assessed and commented on. Im not persuaded that Fairmead factoring back  in a 
value for planting satisfies the remaining  difference  of around £7,000  that would be left 
between the surveyors  recommended  amount and what Mr and Mrs H had to pay. And yet 
there is still no clear reasoning for such a vast deduction. I remain of the view that Fairmead 
fairly and reasonably needs to pay an additional £6,645 to settle this aspect of the claim.
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H have  been unable to complete all of the 
reinstatement work,  I have found that, with the exception of two elements of the claim (flat 
roof/velux window and landscaping) Fairmead  had made fair settlement. And I note that 
those two issues were part of a group of just six disputed  areas  of the quote.  The 
Ref: DRN27692765settlement Im requiring Fairmead  to now make is quite small compared to the previous 
settlement made. But I remain of the view that Fairmead didnt  handle  this claim well and 
did cause significant  delays which resulted in distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs H. 
Im still satisfied that further compensation for distress and inconvenience, £250 on top of 
the £250 previously  paid,  plus £180  compensation for lost income and higher fuel costs,  is 
fairly and reasonably due.
My view on this complaint remains that stated provisionally. My provisional findings  now 
form part of the findings of this my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H:
Following further consideration, an amount to cover any outstanding costs for Velux 
window repair/replacement, not already covered by the settlement.
£6,645 being the difference outstanding for landscaping work, plus interest* from 
9 April 2019  until settlement is made.
VAT, upon sight of proof of a VAT invoice.
A further  £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience (making  £500 in total).
£180 compensation  for lost income and higher fuel costs  caused by it delay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr and Mrs H, it should tell them how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate  showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2769276