K820x#14complaint
Mrs J and her son Mr J complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited misled Mrs J 
when she queried  the effect a non-fault claim would have on their motor insurance policy.   
  
background
Mrs J is a named driver on the policy, which started in August 2016 and was renewed 
subsequently. During the first year Mr J was involved  in an accident. Liability wasnt  resolved 
until after a court hearing in April 2019, when Mr J was found not to be at fault. But in the 
meantime, his premiums had risen substantially,  to well over £5,000. 
Mr Js no claims discount  (NCD) for the first year was disallowed, but once the claim was 
classed as non-fault, Admiral said a refund of around £911 was due to him. Mrs J said shed 
been led to believe  by Admiral that if Mr J wasnt  at fault for the accident, his premium  after 
renewal would revert  to the sum he was paying  before the accident.  So she was expecting a 
refund of several  thousand pounds. 
Admiral said Mrs J wasnt told the premium would revert. She was only told that Mr Js NCD 
would be reinstated.  Admiral said its statistics showed that policy holders involved in non-
fault accidents go on to make  future  fault claims,  so it assesses the risk they pose 
accordingly. It said that in 2019 it offered to cancel the policy without making  a charge, and 
the policy was cancelled at that point. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Js complaint. After  listening to the calls, she 
concluded that Admiral  hadnt promised a reduction  in the premium or a refund at any point.  
She noted that Admiral takes non-fault  claims into account in setting premiums,  as well as 
fault claims,  so either is likely to result in an increased premium.
Mrs J asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs J and Admiral.  In June 2017  Mrs J asked advisor A 
whether - should  the other  driver  be held at fault  the premium  would come down or remain  
the same. Advisor A said it would definitely  be less than £5,000. At the end of the call, 
advisor A said hopefully there would be a reduction in premium, but said she couldnt say 
that was guaranteed. Mrs J didnt query her statement. In a call with advisor B the same 
day, Mrs J was told that if the claim proved  to be non-fault, Mr J would get his NCD back,  
and would get a reduction in premium ..if there  is one.. Mrs J didnt query  that, either
Neither of the advisors suggested  that Mr Js premium might revert  to what it was before the 
accident. They referred to his NCD  being  restored for the year in which the accident  took 
place. Mrs J didnt ask for clarification  even though at that point it seems shed already 
found much  cheaper  quotes online,  such as £2,200  and £750. Mrs J could have  cancelled  
the policy at the time and taken up a cheaper  quote.  I think  its likely she didnt because she 
had formed the impression that Admiral  would revert to the previous  premium in due course. 
But I dont think the call recordings show that Admiral led her to that conclusion.  
Ref: DRN25930212Mrs J called Admiral  again in May 2019 (probably after getting the renewal  quote  for the next 
year). She spoke to a manager, who told her Admiral takes  non-fault claims into account  
when setting premiums. He said if Admiral found  it had done  anything wrong, it would put it 
right following an investigation.  But Admiral didnt find it had done anything  wrong.  
Mrs J called Admiral  again in May 2019. She said shed been promised in 2017 that Admiral 
would work  out what Mr Js premium would  have been without the accident claim. She said 
she wouldnt  have gone ahead with the renewal had that not been  the case. Admirals  
advisor said Mrs J had only been  told that the NCD discount for the year would be applied  
should the claim turn out to be non-fault. The advisor also said that as Admiral rates non-
fault claims,  the premium would have been far less had there  not been an accident. Mrs J 
insisted Admiral had lied to her in 2017 and misled  her into renewing the policy.   
The policys  initial premium would have been based  on various factors,  no doubt including 
the fact that Mr J was a very young  driver  in his first year of driving. Many of the same 
factors would have  been considered again  at renewal. Admiral has given us commercially 
sensitive material to show just a few of the numerous factors  that were taken into account at 
renewal. As Mrs J is aware,  the accident  was one of them. But I think  the premium might 
have risen even without the accident taking place, although perhaps not by so much. 
I think Admiral  was entitled to raise  the premium as it did, in line with its rating criteria. It was 
then for Mr J and Mrs J to decide whether to accept the new premium  or to look for cover 
elsewhere. If there was any evidence  that Admiral had misled  Mrs J into renewing the policy, 
then there  would be no doubt that it had acted unreasonably. But from what  Ive seen, 
theres nothing to show thats  the case. I think its possible  that Mrs J misinterpreted the 
situation and what Admirals advisors  said. She was confident from the start that Mr J wasnt 
to blame for the accident. So she may have thought once that was proven, it would be as 
though the accident  had never happened.  If thats  the case, I think  its understandable in the 
circumstances. But I cant say Admiral  was responsible for the situation.
As I dont think Mrs J has been able to show that Admiral acted unreasonably, despite my 
sympathy for the situation  she and Mr J found themselves in, I cant uphold  their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules  I must ask Mr J and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 
16 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2593021