K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained that esure Insurance Limited  didnt pay a fair market  value settlement
when he claimed  under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr N was unfortunately involved in an incident and made a claim to his insurer,  esure.
esure settled  Mr Ns claim as a total loss. Mr N decided to keep his car which  he later sold.
But he was unhappy  with the settlement esure paid. He said it didnt reflect  the rarity and
condition of his car.
esure said it had relied on the trade  guides and its valuation was fair. So Mr N asked us to
look at his complaint.
Our investigator asked  one of the main  motor trade guides to provide a bespoke valuation  
due to the rarity of Mr Ns car. Their valuation was higher  than the sum esure had paid. The 
investigator recommended esure pay the difference  to meet  the bespoke valuation  and add 
interest at 8%.
Mr N accepted the investigators view. esure  didnt  agree. It said Mr Ns car wasnt in retail
condition immediately before the incident.  So it doesnt think its fair to use the bespoke retail
sum. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2019. I thought the bespoke valuation was 
a better  starting point  to decide  a valuation given the rarity of Mr Ns car. But I also thought 
there was pre existing  damage which esure  had highlighted   and so I thought a fairer  
valuation was to deduct half of the estimated costs to prepare the pre existing damage from 
the bespoke valuation. This meant  I intended to ask esure to pay Mr N a further £1,523.
Both parties  disagreed. Mr N said the estimate  esure gave to repair  the pre existing damage 
wasnt anywhere near the amount  he was quoted  by a garage.  He maintains that his car was 
in very good  condition for its age. He provided several photos of his car. 
esure maintains that the valuation it paid was fair. So the case has been  passed back  to me 
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Looking at the comments  and photos 
provided since my provisional decision, there  isnt enough from either party  to persuade  me 
to make any changes.  So my final decision  remains along the same  lines.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its decision
reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr Ns policy  says the most esure will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of his
car. It defines the term market value as the amount Mr N could reasonably have expected  to
sell his car for on the open market place  immediately  before the accident  or loss. 
Ref: DRN28354192The valuation esure says is based  on cars of the same make  and model  and of a similar 
age, condition and mileage.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We generally find the main
motor trade  guides  are a reliable way to decide a valuation as they are based on likely
selling prices for similar cars. We find adverts  are less reliable as they tend to be a starting
point to negotiate a price  downward  and they vary widely.
In this case however,  Mr Ns car was a very rare model of a classic sports car. He told us
that only 75 were made. And so for this reason we obtained a bespoke valuation  from one of
the main motor trade guides. They gave us a retail valuation of £13,950.  esures valuation
was £10,902 which was mid-range of the trade guides.
esure provided photos of Mr Ns car along  with its engineers report.  It said this showed  that
it wasnt in retail condition  immediately before the incident.
I think esures comments about the condition of Mr Ns car are reasonable. But I dont think  
given the rarity  of the model  that the trade guide valuations  were the correct starting point
to decide a value. I think  its fair to say that the bespoke valuation  properly  reflects the cars
rarity. And I would have thought that its rarity means  there  would have been a market for it,
before the accident  even though its pre accident  condition wasnt  perfect.
Mr Ns car was 17 years old so it had some  signs of wear and tear. esure  provided  an
estimate of the costs  to repair the non-incident related damage at £3,051.20.  Our general
approach when estimating the cost of repairing the pre-incident damage is to divide that
figure by two and then to deduct that figure  from the settlement. As a guide, we consider this
"broad brush" approach  to be a simple, fair way of assessing a fair reduction when handling
this type of complaint.
Deciding a valuation isnt an exact  science. But in this case,  I think  the fairest  outcome is for
the starting point valuation to be £13,950.  It takes into account the rarity of the model.  I then
think its fair for esure to deduct £1,525  (half of £3,051.20) from that figure to reach a
valuation of £12,425. This takes  into account the fact that Mr Ns car had some damage
which might  lead a potential buyer to reduce the price theyd be prepared  to pay for it just
before the incident.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
increase the total loss settlement it paid Mr N by £1,523. It should  pay interest on this sum at 
a rate of 8% simple interest  a year from the date it paid the original  settlement  to the date it 
pays Mr N.
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr N how much  its taken off. It should
also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN28354193Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2835419