K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fully repaired her car under her car 
insurance policy after it was involved in a collision with an animal.
background
While driving her car in late May 2018  Mrs G collided  with an animal causing damage.  Mrs G 
says she first noticed her car getting  warmer, and by implication the air conditioning not 
working, very soon  after the accident.  She made a claim under her policy with AXA and the 
car was inspected and later repaired.  After receiving  her back Mrs G said she noticed the air 
conditioning was not working and she thinks AXA should  have  repaired it as part of her 
claim. 
AXAs engineering  agent inspected Mrs Gs car in July 2018 and reported light frontal 
impact. On inspection of the relevant pump no impact damage was noted and it was 
reported that the manufacturers garage had diagnosed an electrical  fault within the pump. 
AXAs conclusion was that the issue with the air conditioning  was not related to the collision 
with the animal  and so not covered by the policy.
Our investigator looked into the issues and was of the view that based on the information 
wed received AXA had acted fairly in not paying  for the air conditioning to be repaired as it 
wasnt a result of the accident. She said shed  taken into account Mrs Gs comment that 
shed approached an independent advisor who had looked at her vehicle but he couldnt  
conclusively say the issue was related to the collision. And while  a diagnostic check around 
three weeks before the accident  hadnt  revealed any issue with the air conditioning, there 
was a period of time between that and the accident.  The evidence from AXAs agent and 
information from the manufacturers garage  hadnt  been shown to be incorrect.
Mrs G disagreed with the investigator and sent a comprehensive response  but no further 
independent evidence has been provided. And she says, among other  things, that her 
vehicle type is more expensive than many  cars and is known for its reliability. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like every  car insurance policy Ive seen Mrs Gs car is not covered for repair  which 
improves the condition  from before  the collision took place or for loss/damage caused by 
wear and tear and mechanical or electrical failure.  The issue  in this case  is whether the air 
conditioning, on the balance of probabilities,  failed  because of the collision. 
We usually find evidence  from an expert persuasive  when they are reporting within their field 
of expertise. The information  AXA has provided  shows that an engineer inspected the air 
condition pump  and found no impact  damage. Mrs Gs car had been  seen  at a 
manufacturers garage and the conclusion was that the air conditioning  had suffered an 
electrical fault within the pump. The report also said that because  of the vehicles age (2009 
model) it wouldnt record when the failure  occurred. The repairer, manufacturer  and 
independent engineer have all seemingly  concluded that the air conditioning failure  was not 
related to the accident.
Ref: DRN22046232I have taken into account a document that shows there was no fault code recorded around 
three weeks before the accident  but that isnt proof  a problem didnt arise before the accident 
date. Balancing Mrs Gs thoughts against the experts opinions  Im satisfied AXA has shown 
that, on balance,  the air conditioning didnt fail as a consequence of the collision. 
I appreciate Mrs G may have bought a more  expensive vehicle and believes it to be more 
reliable. A cursory search online shows a number of apparent issues with the air conditioning 
in that vehicle type. And while I havent taken this into account for my findings it does show  
that just because a car was more expensive  it isnt, as a corollary, more reliable.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2204623