K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Standard Life Savings Limited caused unnecessary delays when 
transferring his pension to a new provider.
background 
Mr T initiated a transfer request from Standard Life to his new SIPP provider in November 
2018. And on 13 December 2018 he received  confirmation that his funds had been sold and 
the cash balance  would  be transferred within 3-5 working days.  The cash balance at the time 
was £528,645.38.  But instead of making the transfer  Standard  Life reinvested the cash.
After Mr T complained, Standard Life subsequently  re-sold the funds, but the cash  
transferred to his new provider on 7 January 2019  was only £517,927.68.
Standard Life issued a final response letter in response to Mr Ts complaint. It said:
It had received an email from Mr T dated  20 November 2018 requesting the transfer 
out to his new provider and the removal of his adviser.  Unfortunately  this was an 
invalid request. To remove  an adviser it required the instruction to be in writing or by 
telephone.
Regretfully it didnt tell Mr T that his instruction was invalid and as his adviser was 
unaware they had been removed they completed a bulk rebalance.  This resulted in 
his funds being bought back.
To ensure that he wasnt financially disadvantaged by the re-buying, re-selling of 
funds and the investment of funds with the new provider at the later transfer date it 
contacted the new provider to carry out end to end calculations. The total financial 
loss was £10,935.54, and it had sent this payment to the new provider.
Standard Life subsequently also paid Mr T £200  for the anxiety and worry hed been caused.  
But Mr T remained unsatisfied, and brought his complaint  to this service.  He said that he 
should be compensated for the delayed access to his funds, his wasted  time in preparing for 
aborted investment decisions and the general  inconvenience and stress he had suffered in 
dealing with the situation.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ts complaint. He felt that the fair approach would  be to look at 
Mr Ts immediate actions  when the money  was transferred to him. Standard  Life had already 
looked at two trades Mr T had made immediately after the transfer, and compensated  him 
for a loss incurred due to the delay.  But the investigator identified  that there had been a 
further trade for £100,000,  and asked Standard Life to adopt the same approach to that 
trade.
Standard Life agreed to our investigators  proposed approach.  And Mr Ts new provider 
calculated that Mr T could have purchased another 9.5187 units in the investment (totalling 
£1,775.43 at the time of calculation) had the transfer  gone  ahead as expected.
Our investigator also felt that the compensation of £200 that Standard Life had paid was a 
fair amount, and in line with what he would have  recommended.
Mr T does  not agree  with our investigators view and so his complaint has been  referred  to 
me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN24166492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for much  the same reasons. I appreciate  that this will be 
a disappointment to Mr T, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Standard Life says that the error occurred as Mr Ts request to remove his adviser was 
invalid under its terms and conditions. But it has accepted that it didnt draw this to his 
attention at the time. And it has agreed  that he should not be financially disadvantaged by 
the re-buying, re-selling and delayed investment of funds. In order to achieve this, it has 
transferred an additional  £10,935.54 to his new pension  account to purchase additional units  
in investments he made immediately after the transfer. And it has subsequently agreed to 
purchase a further  9.5187 units in another investment  he also made immediately after the 
transfer.
Im persuaded that Standard Life has acted fairly in agreeing to compensate  Mr T, and in 
basing the compensation offered to him on the investments he actually made with his new 
provider. And I think that it is reasonable that it compensates Mr T by buying a further  9.5187 
units in the investment identified by our investigator. But, although I appreciate  that Mr T 
may have  acted differently had the money  been  received into his new account sooner, there 
is no way of telling what he would have done, or whether  he would have been better or 
worse off as a result. So I dont find it reasonable to ask Standard  Life to do anything further 
to compensate Mr T for any potential investment losses.
 
Standard Life has also paid Mr T £200 for the anxiety  and worry caused  to him. But Mr T 
feels that this is insufficient to compensate  him for his time, frustration, stress and potential 
missed financial opportunities. He has pointed out that he was effectively frozen out all over 
the Christmas and New Year period and then had to badger Standard  Life to get the matter 
resolved. And he says he then had a very slow start to reinvestment as the market had 
changed over the holiday  period. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr T has to say. But, having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that the compensation  that Standard Life has paid to him is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So I dont  require it to pay him any additional compensation for his trouble 
and upset.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Standard Life Savings Limited to pay to 
Mr Ts new SIPP provider the amount required  to purchase a further 9.5187 units  in his fund 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2416649