K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs  A complains  an online transfer  from his Nationwide Building  Society  
(Nationwide) account didnt go through using  the card reader supplied by the society. 
background 
On 12 December 2018 Mr A wanted to transfer a sum of money online from the joint account 
he held with Mrs A. That transfer didnt go through  online despite Mr A calling a Nationwide  
customer adviser on his third attempt to input details and verify  the transfer. In the end Mr A 
ended up going  into his local branch of Nationwide to make the transfer. Mr and Mrs A say 
theyve suffered inconvenience  as a result of this.
Mr and Mrs A think the transfer  failed  due to a faulty  card reader. Nationwide  say the online 
transfer failed  as incorrect information was entered three times  so the account was locked 
for 60 minutes and Mr A then made the transfer in the branch. So Nationwide  didnt think  
there had been  an error on their part and didnt  uphold the complaint. In a later response to 
Mr and Mrs As complaint that the logbook for the car purchased had  been registered in Mrs 
As name (which caused problems and delays  with insurance and car tax as Mrs A didnt 
drive) Nationwide accepted there  had been delays and that theyd  fail to make  a call back as 
promised. So they paid £75 compensation for this into Mr and Mrs As account.
Mr and Mrs A brought the complaint to us as they were unhappy with Nationwides  response  
to the complaint about the failed online transfer, logbook registration  and the way their 
complaint was handled.
Our investigator issued  two views. In both he thought,  on balance, that Mr and Mrs As 
online transfer had failed as something was input incorrectly. He thought that whilst this had 
caused considerable inconvenience, from the evidence hed seen,  he didnt think Nationwide  
had made  any errors.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. They requested copies of all the calls between themselves and 
Nationwide. And they sent us a letter from Nationwide  which they said showed the societys  
card readers did come up with errors and information from the societys website  which 
showed card readers did get faulty.  So they thought Nationwide were lying when they said 
the card reader in this case wasnt faulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear that Mr and Mrs A have strong  feelings about this complaint. Theyve has provided 
detailed submissions in support  of their view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust Mr and Mrs A will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably  less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose  of my decision isnt to address  every point raised,  but 
to set out my conclusions  and reasons for reaching them. The central issue  here is that the 
transfer on 12 December  2018 wasnt made online as Mr and Mrs A had wished. Instead it 
was made  later that day via a branch when Mr A attended in person. 
Ref: DRN24449662I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs A and the position they found themselves in on the day and 
later when they found the logbook was registered in Mrs As name. Its frustrating when a 
service doesnt work as youre expecting it to. But for the reasons Ill explain below I dont 
think thats due to anything Nationwide have  done  wrong. Where  facts have been in dispute,  
incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know  exactly whats happened, Ive decided whats  
more likely to have  happened,  at the time, on a balance of probabilities
I cant know exactly what went wrong  here. Neither  the records from the bank or Mr As 
testimony can show me what was keyed  into the card reader. Mr A has described  the 
pressurised circumstances in which he trying  to complete the transaction.  He says he was 
on site working with a supplier waiting to deliver to him and that the seller of the car was 
waiting payment before transporting the car to Mr A on a service  that was departing  shortly. 
Mr A also told us on the third attempt  to authorise  the transfer his brother was logged  into Mr 
and Mrs  As online account on a mobile  phone completing the steps necessary there  whilst  
Mr A himself  operated  the card reader  and was on the phone  to Nationwide  for guidance.  I 
dont doubt, as Mr and Mrs A suggest, that some  card readers have or may develop faults. 
And I dont  think the evidence from Nationwide is suggesting this never happens  but rather 
that its a very small proportion of card readers.  The records from Nationwide show  incorrect  
information was entered  on multiple  occasions.  I dont think that necessarily means  the 
reader was faulty - the information couldve been incorrectly  entered  by a user.  So, taking all 
of the above information  into account,  on balance, I think its likely the online transfer  failed 
as incorrect information  was entered.
Its clear Mr and Mrs A wanted this transfer to go ahead online and within a short timeframe. 
They were  purchasing a car and the seller was waiting to receive  the money from them  
before transporting the car. I know the problems Mr A encountered  were frustrating but, for 
the reasons Ive given, I dont think its fair to hold Nationwide  responsible for the 
inconvenience hes incurred  as  a result of not being able to transfer the money online in 
time for the car to be transported to him by a particular service. 
Nationwide did transfer the money on 12 December 2019 at the branch  visit. But they had no 
control over how the recipient of the funds recorded  the new owners details on the logbook. 
So although  Im sorry to hear of the difficulties  it caused Mr and Mrs A by having Mrs A as 
the first named on the account recorded  as the registered keeper thats not something  I can 
reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for.
Nationwide have accepted there were delays in dealing with the further queries raised  by Mr 
A after the first response letter to this complaint was sent. And that they didnt return  a call 
when theyd said they would. But in respect  of these failings I think  the compensation they 
have already paid to Mr and Mrs As account is a reasonable response. So I dont require 
them to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  have made a reasonable offer to settle 
this dispute by paying £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Ref: DRN24449663Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2444966