K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused their request to 
make a chargeback  for a transfer made  from their current account to a holiday club 
company.
background
Mr and Mrs K made a substantial payment from their current  account in December 2012  to a 
company running  a holiday  club. They  did this by international bank transfer. Theyd  also 
made an earlier debit  card payment to the company from a different bank. 
Mr and Mrs K feel the company running the holiday club hasnt delivered what was 
promised. And they say it has since stopped  trading with the directors  having criminal  action  
taken against  them. 
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs K asked the bank to make a chargeback  claim. RBS explained 
that it was too late to make a chargeback but also that it wasnt able to make a chargeback 
request for a bank transfer. Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into this matter  but she didnt uphold  it. She expressed  her 
sympathy with Mr and Mrs K, but explained that she didnt think RBS had done anything 
wrong. It assessed the chargeback request and found  that it was out of time. She further  
explained that chargebacks can only be raised  on debit card transactions and, in this case, 
Mr and Mrs K had made a bank  transfer. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree. They say they werent  aware of the time limits  and feel that the 
evidence against  the company is overwhelming so they dont understand why action isnt 
going to be taken to put things right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs K that I think the investigator  has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold their complaint against RBS.  I think  our investigator  has 
explained matters  well and so theres  not much I feel I can usefully add. I would just make  
the following  points.
While I have every sympathy with their situation, I cannot say that RBS has done anything  
wrong in this particular  matter. I havent disregarded Mr and Mrs Ks comments about the 
company, the impact  this matter has had on them or the fact that they werent aware  of the 
time limits involved with chargebacks. But my role here is to look at whether RBS has failed 
to raise a chargeback when it shouldve. And, having done so, I dont  think  it has done  
anything wrong  in this matter. 
Ref: DRN29608392Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the Card Scheme. It allows  customers  to ask for 
a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services  they've paid for. 
There's no automatic  right to a chargeback. A chargeback isnt a guaranteed  method of 
getting a refund. And, if the bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to 
raise a chargeback.
The Card  Scheme checks the nature of the problem against the possible chargeback 
reasons to see whether the claim  will be successful. However, the Card  Scheme only 
accepts claims  made within specified  time limits. Claims must  be made within  120 days  of 
the transaction but, for services bought to be used in the future, the date starts  when the 
service is used. However, ultimately,  a claim must be made  within 540 days  of the 
transaction processing date. 
Mr and Mrs K made the payment by bank transfer from their RBS account in December 
2012. So their right to make a chargeback expired, at the latest, around May 2014.  Given 
their request  to RBS was only made in April 2018  - more than four years after the latest  time 
limit expired  - I cannot require the bank to pursue a chargeback for them. However,  even if 
Mr and Mrs K had been in time, I think its important to bear in mind that chargeback 
requests can only be made  for goods or services bought using a debit or credit  card  this 
doesnt cover bank transfers.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs K say they also made a payment with a debit card through  a 
different financial business  but this is a separate complaint.  Im only looking at the transfer 
made from their current account with RBS in this matter. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2960839