K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2006. Mr and Mrs D have  said Tipton and Coseley Building Society  (Tipton and Coseley)  
mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was not intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I asked everyone  to send me any further  comments and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs D or Tipton and Coseley responded with anything further for me to 
consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2006. Mr 
and Mrs D have said Tipton and Coseley  Building Society (Tipton  and Coseley)  mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24320122Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Im currently  intending to not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I think Tipton  and Coseley made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember this. I say this because  
Tipton and Cosely has provided me with a copy of the separate PPI application form completed at 
the time. This would have been completed separate from the mortgage and I can see it was only 
taken in Mr Ds name  which I think indicates a discussion took place about  PPI and following that 
they decided to take in Mr Ds name only. I can see the application has been signed which 
indicates they agreed to and wanted  the cover.
Tipton and Coseley has said it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs D got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information  Tipton and Coseley  gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been useful for 
them if something went  wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr and Mrs D have said that interest would have been added  to the monthly cost of PPI. But this 
would not be the case for a regular premium policy. Its likely the monthly  could have increased  over 
the years but the cost would  not have included  interest.
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
The PPI policy couldve  covered Mr and Mrs Ds repayments for up to 12 months per claim  if Mr D 
became too ill to work, or if he became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition  to any sick pay 
he had. And it wouldve  paid out on top of any redundancy payment he may have got if he lost his 
job. And as there  couldve  been serious  consequences of not keeping up repayments on a debt 
secured against their home, if Mr D couldnt work or lost his job then the PPI meant Mr and Mrs Ds 
monthly mortgage payments  wouldve been met. So I think the PPI policy couldve  been helpful to 
them.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D has said  including what  theyve said about  Pinnacle 
cancelling the PPI policy in 2018. As Pinnacle  is the insurer, Tipton and Coseley have no control  
over this. And as Im only looking at this case about Tipton and Coseley not the insurer, Im unable  
to comment on this. So this point doesnt change my decision.
Ive also thought  about  whether Tipton and Coseley need to give Mr and Mrs D some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage was a regulated  mortgage they dont apply.  So Tipton and Coseley dont need to refund 
any of the commission Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN2432012