K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a personal loan.
background
In January 2018 Mr A went into an HSBC branch to apply for a £10,000 personal loan. Mr A 
says that when he applied for the loan,  he told the agent he wanted  it to pay off other  debts. 
Mr A says the agent said he wouldnt be able to borrow  the full £10,000  for this reason so he 
should say he wanted the loan to buy a car instead.  
HSBC approved the loan, and Mr A withdrew almost the full amount  on the same day HSBC 
paid it into his account. Two weeks later a family member paid £10,000 into Mr As bank 
account and that same  day Mr A paid £10,000 to HSBC in repayment  of the loan.
Mr A was unhappy that HSBC didnt ask enough questions  about why he wanted the loan. 
He said he had a gambling problem and HSBC shouldve  been  aware  of this from the cash 
withdrawals he was making at casinos.  So he complained  to HSBC.
HSBC didnt uphold  his complaint. It confirmed all its personal loans are subject to a full 
affordability assessment,  information from credit reference agencies  and its own lending 
criteria. It said the loan was affordable for Mr A, based on the regular credits into his bank 
account and what  hed told it about  his outgoings.  It said its personal loans are non-advised 
products so its agents arent able to make recommendations, only give factual information. It 
also said that it wasnt able see that Mr As cash withdrawals  were made at casinos and 
were likely being used  for gambling.
Mr A was still unhappy so he got in touch with our service. The investigator  who looked into 
things thought HSBC hadnt mis-sold  Mr As loan, as it undertook sufficient checks  and there 
was nothing to make HSBC think Mr A might have had gambling  problems.
Mr A disagreed so his complaints been  passed  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint.
Mr A says his complaint  is really about the HSBC branch  agent  telling him to say the loan 
was to buy a car. Mr A points out he doesnt currently have  a driving  licence so doesnt need 
a car. He think HSBC  should have done further checks  on why he wanted the loan.
The loan application happened in branch, which means theres no call recording or other 
record of what was discussed. So Ive considered what each party has told me about that 
discussion. Mr A says the agent told him to say the loan was for a car so he could borrow  
more. The HSBC agent who processed  Mr As loan application says they followed all HSBC 
policy and procedures, and that at no point  had Mr A given them  any reason to believe the 
loan was for anything  other than to buy a car.
When we have two conflicting versions of events, I have to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities, that is, what I think most  likely to have happened. We have a copy of the 
Ref: DRN25718882loan application  itself completed  at the time of the loan.  This suggests Mr A did agree to take 
the loan out for the purpose of buying a car. If any part of the application was incorrect Mr A 
could have taken  steps to correct it with HSBC, but Ive seen nothing to suggest he did. So 
on balance, I dont  think I can say HSBC told Mr A to give incorrect  information  to get the 
loan.
Mr A says HSBC should have carried our more detailed checks to be sure the loan was for a 
car, such as looking at his driving  licence. But its not obliged to do such checks and I think it 
was reasonable  for HSBC to rely on what Mr A said he wanted  the loan for. Taking 
everything into account, I cant say HSBC  did anything wrong here. 
Id expect a responsible lender to carry out proportional checks  to see whether Mr A could 
afford the loan. Im satisfied HSBC did, because Ive seen that it looked  at his existing debt, 
searched his credit  record, and applied its own lending criteria. And HSBC has provided 
copies of Mr As bank statements from the three  months prior to his loan application. The 
statements show Mr As income and outgoings, and based on these it appears  the loan 
repayments were affordable for him at the time.  I understand Mr A was on a zero hours 
contract and his income fell after he took the loan, but I dont think HSBC couldve foreseen  
this. And this doesnt mean it wasnt affordable at the time he took the loan.
The statements  dont show anything to suggest Mr A has financial difficulties or is gambling.  
There are regular cash withdrawals but thats  not unusual and its not possible to tell from 
the statements  that the withdrawals were made at casinos or other  gambling  establishments. 
HSBC has confirmed it first became aware  of Mr As gambling when he complained that the 
loan had been mis-sold,  and Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBC  knew before this. 
Considering everything  I have, I think HSBC carried out the proper  checks to make  sure the 
loan was affordable,  and the loan wasnt mis-sold. As Mr A paid the loan back  within 14 days  
of taking it, he wasnt charged any interest  so I cant see hes lost financially in this regard.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2571888