K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined  a claim he 
made on his motor breakdown repair policy, which it underwrites.
background
Mr Ws car broke  down twice in 2018. Acromas declined to cover the second claim he made, 
which was in June  2018. It thought the car had shown the same  fault in January 2018. It 
noted that the first 2018 breakdown was within a year of a new clutch being fitted by firm H, 
an independent garage, which  meant  the repair in January 2018 should have been done  
under warranty. Mr H said hed returned to firm H for the repair  in January 2018 but had paid 
for it himself. Firm H sent Acromas an invoice, but Acromas said Mr H hadnt followed it up.  
Acromas said it needed  more details of the work done in January 2018. It said that not 
having a repair done after being  made  aware  of a fault fell under one of the policys 
exclusions. And it said if Mr W had driven  his car knowing about an unrepaired  fault, that fell 
under another of the policys exclusions.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ws complaint. She thought Acromas had acted 
reasonably. She noted that after the second breakdown  in 2018 Mr W had used his own 
garage for the repairs. Its engineer  said firm H should have told Mr W in 2017 not to drive his 
car until he had more work done on it. He said that instead, it had set out an advisory note 
for Mr W to have  the clutch slave cylinder pipe replaced. The investigator said firm H wasnt  
acting for Acromas in 2017, so it wasnt responsible for firm H. She said it seemed both 2018  
breakdowns were due to the slave cylinder pipe that had been mentioned by firm H in 2017.       
Mr W said firm H didnt  give him a warranty in 2017.  He said as hed paid for a repair in 
January 2018  he expected a refund from Acromas. He then challenged having had two 
breakdowns in 2018. He said the breakdown in June 2018 was almost  a year after firm H 
completed the original  repair.  He said firm H had said there was a problem with the clutch 
pipe, not the slave cylinder  pipe, and hadnt  said he shouldnt drive the car. And he said 
firm H was acting for Acromas in 2017 when it did the original repair.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W called  out Acromass  breakdown  service  on 8 January 2018. The technician diagnosed  
a leaking clutch.  The call-out note (signed by Mr W) says the car needed garage attention 
the next day. It seems Mr W took the car to firm H a few weeks  later,  as Acromass notes 
show that he called it on 20 January  2018 to say firm H had diagnosed the fault. 
Acromas told him it had no details from firm H and that the car needed to be there for 
Acromas to be able to assess the claim.  Its notes show  that it also told Mr W that if he drove 
the car (after a fault had been diagnosed) it could affect the claim. Acromas then chased  firm 
H for details.  It told Acromas that the clutch pipe from the master  to the slave  had failed and 
there was a leak of clutch fluid.  Acromas  noted that the cost of a new clutch pipe was £200. 
Ref: DRN24768382It wanted to know  the cars mileage, so firm H said it would get the car back  to check. After 
that, theres  no note of a further  call from firm H or Mr W.
Acromas didnt get a bill for any repair that may have  been carried out. It didnt reject the 
claim, as it was waiting  for more information  about it. Mr W says hed paid for the repair and 
expected a refund. But I havent seen anything to show that he made Acromas aware of that 
at the time - or that it received the cars mileage details or a receipt /request for a refund. 
Mr W called  the breakdown service again on 26 June 2018. On the call out note signed by 
him, the technician recorded the cars mileage as having increased by 1,649 miles since  the 
last breakdown. He said the clutch was leaking and that there was a possible clutch slave 
leak. The technician advised that the car should  be taken to a garage as soon as possible. It 
was at this point that Mr W took the car to his own garage for repair.  
Acromass notes show that on 29 June 2018  Acromas asked Mr W again for details  of what 
had happened  in January  2018, Mr W said hed had a three-piece clutch  kit fitted,  for about 
£400. In fact, emails  from firm H show the kit was fitted in May 2017. 
Mr W told Acromas that firm H had said at the time that Acromas wouldnt cover  the cost of 
the kit. The advisor told Mr W that wasnt correct and that he could still make  a claim for it. 
But Acromas  was under the impression that the kit was fitted in January 2018, given what 
Mr W had said.  A further file note says that if what he had just told Acromas was right, the 
January 2018  warranty was in place at the time of the June 2018 breakdown. It seems 
theres no warranty for January 2018.  But firm H told Mr W on 5 September 2018  by email 
that the 2017 warranty for the clutch kit was valid for 24 months (until May 2019).    
The engineer from Mr Ws garage  told Acromas on 3 July 2018 that the clutch pipe had burst  
and that hed repaired it. The engineer said the parts hed replaced  had been fitted 
previously by firm H (in 2017). He said Acromas had refused to pay for it as it fell under the 
policys wear and tear exclusion. Presumably, this is what Mr W told the engineer. I dont 
think Mr W has shown  that Acromas  knew about and rejected the 2017 claim. And hed told 
Acromas only a few days earlier that it was firm H that said the claim wouldnt be covered.   
Acromas thought the fault in June  2018 seemed to be the same one that was reported to it in 
January 2018,  which meant it was pre-existing. So potentially it would have been excluded  
under the policy.  To clarify the facts, Acromas  asked Mr W to provide evidence of the work 
that was done in January  2018. Acromass notes show that on 5 July 2018 he agreed to do 
that. But there seems  to have been no further contact from Mr W until 4 September 2018,  
when he made his complaint to Acromas about  it declining the June 2018 claim.   
In fact, Acromas was waiting for information from Mr W or firm H that it seems it still doesnt 
have. Mr W has provided  us with emails that he sent to firm H in 2018  and the replies he got. 
They show  that Mr W queried  the warranty he should have got in 2017,  plus the fact that he 
wasnt told it was essential  to have the advisory  repair done. Firm H initially said it could find 
no record of Mr W having had a repair under  warranty  carried out. But in a later email,  it said 
the clutch was repaired  on 17 May 2017 and confirmed that a warranty was in place. Mr W 
wasnt satisfied with firm Hs response, so in the end it advised  him to process his concerns 
about it through the relevant formal dispute resolution process.  
I think its important to note that firm H told Mr W in 2017 that the clutch slave cylinder pipe 
needed attention. Even  if firm Hs advice was only a recommendation, Mr W was aware of 
the fault from that point onwards. 
Ref: DRN24768383I dont think Mr W has been able to show that Acromas acted unreasonably in relation to the 
enquiry he made to it after the breakdown in January 2018. Mr W cant show that he or 
garage H provided the mileage Acromas had asked  for - or that he followed up on his initial 
contact with Acromas. If Mr W paid for work  to be done at that point,  it isnt at all clear  why 
he didnt provide a receipt and pursue a refund from Acromas at the time.  And any repair  
that was done  if linked to the 2017 repair - should  have been  done under warranty.
I think its reasonable for Acromas to say that if Mr W didnt have  the work done  in 
January 2018,  then as the same  problem arose  in June  2018, the later claim is excluded 
from cover. Thats because he knew about the fault in January 2018 so it was pre-existing. 
The policy excludes  cover  for faults  that have  been  identified at the point of another  repair. 
And Mr W had also driven the car knowing of the fault. The policy also excludes  any damage 
done if the cars driven after a fault has developed.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr W has shown that Acromas  acted 
unreasonably, so I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476838