K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC, when it was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester, mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds merged with the business that sold PPI to Mr and Mrs J and it is responsible for 
dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer in my decision to Lloyds.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a mortgage account that started  in 1997 
and also a later policy  taken out with a further  advance in 1999. 
Lloyds couldnt  provide  any paperwork to show how or exactly when the PPI they had on 
their mortgage account was sold to Mr and Mrs J. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs J mainly say they were never told about  the PPI and never given any paperwork.  
Mr and Mrs J also told us that they had no need  for PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Ive made  some reasonable assumptions  about the PPI. Its unclear who had the benefit of 
the policy. So Ive approached the complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs J were both 
covered. Looking at things this way gives their complaint  the best chance of success.  Given  
the limited information  thats available, I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
what happened  in 1997
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Mrs J have told me. I appreciate  that 
theyre certain about everything theyve said. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them  to 
recall exactly what  was discussed so long ago when they took out their mortgage and the 
PPI. So what they say isn't enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their mis-sale 
complaint. I have to look at all the available information and the wider  circumstances before 
deciding what I think is most likely.
Ref: DRN26107612I cant know precisely what  was said when Mr and Mrs J took out the PPI. But their mortgage 
was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Mr and Mrs Js home 
wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring their monthly mortgage repayments  were protected  even if 
they couldnt work. And the policy offered them  better  protection  than they had otherwise. As 
they were both in paid work when they took out the mortgage I think  having PPI would've 
given Mr and Mrs J peace of mind that they could keep up the monthly repayments even if 
one (or both of them) couldnt work. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs J mightve felt PPI was 
useful. 
Its completely understandable if Mr and Mrs J have now forgotten  some details from so long 
ago. But, on balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs J decided  they wanted  to protect their 
home by taking out the PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy alongside their 
mortgage. 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, I think  the 
fairest way to look at this complaint is to assess it on the basis  that Lloyds recommended 
PPI to Mr and Mrs J. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have 
to give important policy information in a clear  way. It also has to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr J told us he was entitled  to at least 12 months sick pay. And Mrs J remembered having 
full sick pay, although she wasnt able to say how much that wouldve been. But this doesnt  
mean that PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
The policy wouldve covered  them  for accident or sickness for up to 12 months each time 
they made a successful  claim  under  this part of the policy. It wouldve paid out an amount  
that covered their mortgage monthly repayments,  plus some extra, on top of sick pay they 
received from work. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a 
difficult time if they had extra costs  as a result of illness or disability.  
As well as this, the policy also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
unexpected unemployment.  
Repeat claims were possible providing Mr and Mrs J with long term protection  whilst they 
were paying  for their home.  So I think PPI offered  Mr and Mrs J better cover than they 
wouldve had if theyd  just depended  on their work benefits. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs J had a small amount of savings.  But there was no 
guarantee when  Mr and Mrs J took out this mortgage that they would  always have savings to 
rely on. 
I think it unlikely that selling their car or a motorcycle wouldve been enough to pay the 
mortgage for very long  bearing in mind it was a financial  commitment they were expecting 
to have to pay for many  years. And relying  on someone else to help out in the event of 
money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. 
So, I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J, even  taking into account their excellent work  
benefits and the other  means  they told us they couldve  relied  on.
Ref: DRN26107613Its possible  some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look like they were  affected by any of the main conditions  
that mightve limited  the policys benefit  to them. So, even if these werent  mentioned, I dont 
think that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr and Mrs Js decision to have PPI. 
They were  both eligible  for the policy.  I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear  to 
Mr and Mrs J when they bought the policy. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt appear to 
have been unaffordable for them when they took it out. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs J still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  when they took out their 
mortgage, even  if theyd been  better informed, as it gave them worthwhile protection  in their 
particular situation.  I dont think better information  wouldve put them off buying PPI given the 
benefits it offered  them.
what happened  in 1999
PPI wasnt extended  automatically when Mr and Mrs J arranged their further  advance. They 
wouldve had to apply  for more PPI and agree the extra  cost of the additional cover if they 
wanted the PPI benefits to cover their increased borrowing. And I can understand why they 
mightve wanted to do this at the time  even if theyve  forgotten  this now. As far as I can see 
their circumstances were broadly the same. The new policy gave  Mr and Mrs J the same  
benefits and it provided them with the long term protection  they already had set up for their 
original mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs J continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under  the policy. And 
theres nothing to suggest that the extra  cost of paying for this additional PPI was a problem 
for them. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them this PPI, I dont  think that better information  wouldve  put Mr and Mrs J off having it. 
So, looked  at overall, I dont  find that Mr and Mrs J are worse  off as a result of anything that 
Lloyds did wrong.  So it doesnt need to do anything to put things  right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr and Mrs J told us, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view and the fact that Mr J 
didn't claim  on the policy when he was off work as a result of serious  illness.  
Not making a claim on the insurance when he was unable to work  doesnt mean it was mis-
sold. So this information  doesnt affect  my decision. But Mr J may wish to approach  the 
insurer to see if it would  be prepared  to accept and consider  a retrospective claim. If he does 
so and finds that he has concerns in this regard,  then he should first tell the insurer  why hes 
unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory  conclusion, he may be able to bring a 
complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate  matter. 
Ref: DRN26107614my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2610761