K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2004 at a meeting at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mr S for disability and unemployment, subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. The application form said the policy was to cover  £45,600 of Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage. It would pay the monthly mortgage  payment  (which  Lloyds says at the time was 
around £390 for £45,600)  plus £3 for every £1000  of their initial  mortgage  (around £136) and 
premiums for associated home insurance if that was taken with Lloyds. Lloyds says the cost 
of the cover  taken was £22.80 at the start.
At the time Mr S was a driver and had been with his employer for more than seven years.  
Mrs S was a student. Mr and Mrs S have told us Mr S was entitled to statutory sick pay but 
not redundancy pay. His length  of service makes me think he wouldve been entitled  to 
statutory redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs S have said they also had £1000  in savings with 
which to repay their mortgage if they couldnt work.  Mr and Mrs S have told us Mr S was in 
good health at the time of the sale.
The mortgage offer was issued in December 2004 and the mortgage started in January 
2005.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr and Mrs S 
about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN27542712The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The PPI policy was applied for in October  2004  but the mortgage was offered and arranged 
after mortgage lending  became regulated in October 2004  as such this was an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN27542713The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries when the PPI was sold. While  predominantly  about  
mortgage related  matters,  it also included some insurance related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent they suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
Ref: DRN27542714Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs S have  said they had no 
interest in PPI and it was just included as part of the mortgage package.  But to take the PPI 
Mr and Mrs S signed a separate PPI application.  So, it looks  like the PPI was presented as 
separate from the mortgage. Ive not seen anything from the time to suggest Mr and Mrs S 
had to take the PPI or had to sign the application  for it if they didnt want it. The mortgage  
offer, sent after the sale, says Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to take any insurance with Lloyds. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs S say it didnt. But if Lloyds did 
provide advice it had to do more. With this in mind,  I think  its fair to proceed on the basis 
that Lloyds provided  advice.  This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs S. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Ss financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application  for example their employment statuses 
and Mr Ss length of service. But I dont think Lloyds did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable and establish Mr and Mrs S had a need  for it. For example  Ive nothing to show  that 
Lloyds asked Mr S what redundancy or sickness benefits his employer provided.  
The declaration signed by Mr and Mrs S on the PPI application,  asked  that they confirm that 
they were working  at least 16 hours  per week, had been working for at least six months  and 
werent aware of any impending unemployment  or hospitalisation or receiving treatment for 
conditions of a persistent  or recurring nature. But I cant see that Lloyds established that all 
these points applied  to Mr S before giving Mr and Mrs S the application to sign  and Mrs S 
wasnt in paid employment at the time.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN27542715-Although Mr and Mrs S say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable when they took it.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy.  Mrs S didnt have a work income. Aside from 
statutory pay, Mr S wouldnt receive any pay if he suffered  redundancy or was unable  to 
work due to disability.  So Mr and Mrs S wouldve  suffered  a significant loss of income  if 
Mr S became unemployed or too sick to work.  The savings theyve told us about wouldnt 
have helped replace that lost income for long. So the policy  benefit wouldve helped  
Mr and Mrs S manage the consequences  if Mr S lost his income. Also,  without the policy 
benefit it looks likely such a loss of income,  particularly if prolonged, wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs Ss finances under strain.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. There  
was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which wouldve made  it difficult for 
Mr and Mrs S to claim. And, from what theyve told us, Mr S had no pre-existing medical 
conditions that couldve affected  Mr and Mrs Ss ability  to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the fact no benefit  was payable for the first 60 days  of 
disability or unemployment and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, including Mr Ss limited sickness and redundancy 
cover, Mr and Mrs Ss limited  savings and their lack of other means  with which  to 
make payments  if Mr S lost his income  - which meant in the event of a successful 
claim the policy benefit  would play an important role in helping Mr and Mrs S with 
their mortgage payments; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs Ss 
home and the potential  consequences should  they be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that for the mortgage amount it was covering,  
the policy would protect  payments if Mr S was unable  to work through accident, sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion because  I think 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have taken the policy without any sense  of what  the policy 
was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN27542716Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it shouldve  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs S suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs S would have still taken the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it shouldve done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs S 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs S wouldve acted differently, or whether they wouldve 
taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  the policy, and believe I should  presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN27542717weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds offered the PPI or advised them 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event Mr S was unable to work  because  of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs S the exact  premium at the point they applied for 
the policy. But I consider it more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S knew they would have to 
pay something for the policy, and were made aware of the approximate costs.  If the cost 
when they came to pay for the policy  had been  significantly at odds with their expectations at 
the point of sale, its possible Mr and Mrs S mightve  raised  this with Lloyds or reconsidered 
their decision. Instead Mr and Mrs S paid for the policy for a number of years. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its likely they expected,  if 
they werent also told, that in the event of a claim the policy  would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  the monthly  mortgage payment for the mortgage amount the policy  was covering. So 
I think the policy at least  met Mr and Mrs Ss likely  expectations about that and, if anything, 
actually paid more  in the event of a claim than they would have expected - as there was an 
additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr S not only be unable to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (a health  
issue Mr S knew  or ought to have known about  at the policy  start date or had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the policy  start date) occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover (unless Mr S remained symptom free and 
didnt see a doctor for or get treatment for the condition for 24 months before the claim);
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
Ref: DRN27542718on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking the 
policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr S was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs S should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr S wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I 
think Mr and Mrs S still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr S were not only unable to 
do his own job but also unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability,  it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been too concerned given that if Mr S 
was unable (through disability) to do his own job, the chances that he would be able to take 
up a similar  job would  also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that the first 60 days of disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and it may not have  told them  that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 12 month period. All this may have differed from what  Mr and Mrs S expected 
and might have hoped for. But if Mr S lost his income,  aside from statutory benefits  and their 
limited savings, Mr and Mrs S had no other means  to fall back on. In those circumstances,  I 
consider it likely they would still have thought a policy  that after 60 days paid the mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months, would  be of benefit  to them  and would help them manage the 
consequences if Mr S couldnt  work in the circumstances  covered by the policy.  The policy  
allowed for multiple claims to be made and could help reduce Mr and Mrs Ss outgoings  at a 
difficult and uncertain  time,  helping  to make it less likely  their home  would be placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr S were made redundant or became 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs S would have taken the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN27542719the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they wouldve still taken the 
PPI had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Lloyds  should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they wouldve been in if everything  had happened  as it shouldve done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN275427110my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2754271