K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Oculus Wealth  Management  Limited failed to act on his instructions 
concerning his personal pension plan thereby causing him financial detriment. 
background
Mr B had known financial  advisor Mr W for many  years and was a client  of his previous firm. 
He and his wife intended to follow Mr W to his new firm Navigate Capital which is an 
appointed representative of Oculus.  For ease of reading Ill mainly refer to Oculus  in this 
decision.
Mr B had a personal pension plan with a company Ill call R which  came with a guaranteed  
annuity rate (GAR). He started  the plan in 1987 and his chosen retirement date was his 60th 
birthday in December  2018. 
In July 2018 R wrote to Mr B to inform  him of a proposal whereby plan members  could 
exchange their GAR for a one-off increase in the value of their pension fund, or to opt out of 
the offer and retain the GAR.  The illustration  dated  25 June 2018 showed Mr Bs retirement 
pot was around  £160,293 but if he chose to sacrifice the GAR his fund would be uplifted to 
£272,498. 
If Mr B gave up his guarantee the value  of his pot would  be increased. It may have given him 
access to more tax-free cash and greater flexibility in how he took his benefits.  But he would 
be giving  up a valuable  assured annuity of £13,900 from his GAR. At the time the illustration  
suggested the best he could achieve from an uprated fund was only £11,300.   
Mr B spoke to Mr W who Mr B says described the offer as a no brainer . So Mr B decided to 
accept the offer and informed R. But to proceed R needed confirmation Mr B had taken 
specialist financial advice,  evidenced  by its advice confirmation slip signed  by a financial 
advisor. Around this time Navigate was in the process of obtaining regulatory approval  from 
the Financial Conduct Authority, which  it obtained in August  2018.
In September  2018 R sent a letter to Mr B reminding him of the deadline to reply  and 
explaining that if he didnt get advice hed be treated as having  opted out of the uplift offer. 
And in October  2018 R wrote again  to Mr B reminding him of the approaching deadline. He 
was too late to participate in the plan-holder  vote, but he could still accept the offer.  The 
reminder stressed his financial advisor  needed  to sign and return  the slip by 30 November 
2018, otherwise  hed be deemed to have  declined. Mr B chased  Mr W and sent a copy  of the 
slip to his office, receipt of which was acknowledged by a member of Oculuss  administrative 
staff. 
In December 2018 Mr B received a letter from R saying the majority of plan holders had 
voted to accept  the offer,  but 15% had either  declined or not responded. As his advice 
confirmation slip hadnt been received it assumed he didnt wish to uplift his benefits, so hed 
retained his GAR. 
Mr B was very unhappy  that Oculus hadnt  followed his instructions, so Mr W initially tried to 
sort things  out with R. But in January 2019  Mr W explained he couldnt have signed the 
confirmation slip as he wasnt qualified to give that sort of advice. Mr B was surprised to find 
hed been dealing with an unqualified advisor for so long,  so he severed  his relationship with 
Ref: DRN22972002Oculus and made a formal complaint. Mr B also complained to R which confirmed he hadnt 
received the uplift  as his advisor hadnt returned  the advice confirmation slip. 
Oculus explained that because the regulator  wanted  to be sure people understood the 
implications of giving up valuable benefits  like a GAR it insisted such decisions were  
discussed with specially qualified advisors,  which Mr W hadnt  been at the time. And Mr Bs 
description of just needing a simple signature  on a form wasnt  right. But more  importantly  
Oculus said Mr B wasnt officially its client. And during the relevant period the noted agency 
on the policy with R was another firm of financial advisors (P). 
Mr B hadnt  signed  a client agreement or given  his authority over the policy with R, hed only 
signed letters of authority  over his SIPP (self-invested personal pension) and his investment  
portfolio held by Mr Ws previous firm, but that was after the deadline to accept  Rs offer had 
expired. Mr B should have consulted (and paid) his own advisors,  or the ones recommended 
by R, and Oculus wasnt responsible for his failure to do so. 
Mr B felt he was being blamed for Oculuss failings which he estimates cost him more  than 
£100,000, so he complained to this service  and the case was allocated  to one of our 
investigators. Oculus initially objected to us getting involved as Mr B wasnt  one of its 
customers. But the investigator explained we could consider  complaints f
rom potential customers, and he thought Mr B fell into the category of a potential  customer of 
Oculus in relation to this matter, as hed started the onboarding process and given his 
authority in relation to other financial matters.
But the investigator didnt feel the complaint could be upheld.  He could see someone  from 
Oculus had acknowledged receipt  of the form in November 2018 and said it would be 
passed to Mr W. But that didnt mean Oculus or Mr W had agreed to sign it. He understood 
Oculus had told Mr B in a call on 7 November 2018  hed need to obtain specialist pension  
advice, they couldnt simply sign the form. And he hadnt seen  anything  to make  him think 
Mr B had followed this up. He thought  it wasnt certain a pensions  specialist would have 
recommended giving up a valuable benefit like a GAR. And he didnt think Mr B had actually 
lost £100,000 as he retained  the GAR which gave him a better  annuity every  year.  
Mr B disagreed  he had a long-standing  relationship with Mr W whod never said he wasnt  
properly qualified. So Oculus  should  admit its mistake and make  up his loss. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Mr B (and apparently his wife) have known Mr W for many years  and have followed him from 
his original firm to his new one, which is an appointed representative of Oculus. Mr B may 
have considered Mr W to be his personal financial  advisor and trusted his opinion. But at the 
relevant time Mr B hadnt been formally  engaged  as a client  of Oculus,  and it was only in 
October 2018 he signed the letters of authority relating to his SIPP provider and another 
firm. These  werent formal letters of engagement,  but they enabled Oculus to approach  
those firms and obtain information to start their data gathering process. Mr B has never 
signed a letter of authority  in relation to his policy with R, which  was held under the agency  
Ref: DRN22972003of another firm of financial advisors.  And at the time of the initial  discussion with Mr W, 
Navigate itself was quite a new firm and wasnt yet regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Ive looked at the initial personalised offer R sent to Mr B in July 2018. It sets out the two 
figures for Mr Bs pension savings, and I can see why the uplift was tempting. But it also 
says (my bold type) The GAR is a valuable guarantee if the scheme is implemented  
youll lose the GAR. You must be provided with advice  from a financial advisor for your 
vote on the scheme to count.  I think this shows Mr B needed to do more than ask a financial 
advisor to sign the form to indicate his acceptance. Hed need to engage an advisor  who 
could provide him with specialist advice, explain the scheme to him and weigh up the risks 
and benefits before deciding if giving up the GAR would be right for him. A GAR means Mr B 
has certainty about his retirement income  regardless of the performance  of his fund, and 
protects him against  investment  risk, which is why giving it up has to be carefully  considered. 
R sent two reminder  letters to Mr B. The first in September says in the bold heading We 
need to know  .. if youve had advice  and in the body  text says If you dont  get advice, 
youll be treated as having opted out of the Scheme  and youll  keep the GAR. Which I think  
goes further than just saying  the slip has to be returned by an advisor, it makes clear  Mr B 
must obtain advice.  
The second  reminder letter dated  22 October  2018 says as youre a plan-holder who must 
get advice your financial advisor must  complete and return an advice confirmation slip to us 
if you want to exchange your GAR for an increase in your retirement savings. Again, the slip 
was to evidence  Mr B had received advice, not confirming hed made his mind  up. 
The deadline  for Mr Bs vote to count was 12pm  on 19 October 2018, so had already passed 
when the second reminder  letter was sent.  But he could hand deliver his vote to the meeting  
on 23 October 2018. And even if he didnt participate in the vote, Mr B could still accept the 
offer if the signed slip was received by 30 November 2018. It also warned Remember , if 
you dont get advice, or if you do but we dont  receive an advice confirmation slip from your 
financial advisor youll be treated as having  opted out of the Scheme . (my bold type).  
Mr B feels  very let down  that Mr W didnt sign and return the slip as hed been asked. But 
Mr B hadnt  received advice. Mr B says he discussed the offer with Mr W during a meeting at 
Mr Bs house when Mr W said it sounded  like a no brainer. But theres  some  dispute about 
when Mr W saw the offer paperwork  Mr B says he showed it to Mr W during that meeting, 
but Mr W says he hadnt  seen it until much later. I cant be sure about this, but I think  its 
likely if Mr W had seen  the offer hed have  seen the requirement for specialist advice and 
have explained  why he couldnt provide it, particularly to someone who wasnt yet a client of 
his firm. 
Ive seen the email  from a member of staff at Oculus to Mr B on 6 November 2018. Its 
headed Letters  of Authority and goes on Thank you for returning your completed  
Protecting your personal information  form and letters of authority that I can confirm we 
received today. I have  issued your letters to [SIPP provider] and [previous firm] this 
afternoon. I will pass your [R] advice confirmation  slip to [Mr W] when he is back in the office 
later on today. 
This exchange suggests Mr B was in the early stages of becoming a client  and had provided 
letters of authority for two providers but not R. The member of staff had simply agreed  to 
pass the form to Mr W, she hadnt  committed that Mr W would sign it. And in an email of 
Ref: DRN2297200418 October 2018 sending the blank forms to Mr B the same  member of staff explained she 
will need  to issue the original/wet  signature copy of a letter of authority to each provider, 
which meant Oculus couldnt use a copy of a letter they already  had to approach  R. 
Both parties  agree there was a call on 7 November 2018 but theres a dispute about the 
content and theres  no recording  or contemporaneous notes. Mr B says Mr W didnt  tell him 
he couldnt sign the form. Whereas  Mr W says he couldnt have agreed to sign the form as at 
the time Oculus wasnt Mr Bs advisors  as no client agreement had been signed.  They  had 
started the data capture process, but this excluded R. And there was still time for Mr B to 
seek the specialist  advice he needed  and meet  the 30 November 2018 deadline to return  the 
form. I cant be sure what was said but I think its unlikely Mr W would have agreed to do 
something he wasnt qualified to do for someone who wasnt formally a client. Oculus  sent 
Mr B their client  fee agreement including  a summary of the policies they had authority over in 
December 2018  and I think its reasonable to accept that Mr B wasnt  a client  until hed 
signed such an agreement. But it is unfortunate Mr W didnt make position clear in writing at 
the time to ensure  Mr B understood why he wasnt able to assist. 
Ive seen the exchange of correspondence  in January 2019 where Mr W and Mr B discuss 
how they might persuade  R enable Mr B to accept  the offer after the deadline. Mr W wrote  
its important to get the facts right from a regulatory perspective and it would  have been  
illegal to sign that form without the correct regulatory  authority to do so. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with Mr W saying at the time of the option  [Mr B] did not have  a financial 
advisor to call on and was having  difficulty finding one, and whilst we discussed  the matter  
Navigate Capital  was unable to provide advice as it was not at the time regulated.   He felt 
this was misleading as Mr W had always been  his financial advisor.  Although I think he did 
know he hadnt given  Mr W or Oculus his authority over the policy  with R as on 
2 January 2019 he emailed Mr W saying  happy  to sign a letter  of authority  for you to be able 
to speak with them  directly. According to Oculuss final response letter Navigate was 
regulated from 6 August 2018.  But even  if the firm was regulated Mr W still wasnt  in a 
position to give the specialist advice  required.
As agreement couldnt be reached over the content, no communication was sent to R. But 
even if it had been, I think the terms of the offer make clear  the final acceptance deadline  
was 30 November 2018 so any attempt to accept it after that date was likely to have been 
unsuccessful. 
I understand Mr Bs confusion about  Mr Ws professional qualifications and the pension 
transfer specialist  (PTS) qualification needed to provide  the advice. Its important to say 
Mr W was always  a professionally qualified financial advisor but only became PTS qualified 
in January 2019. I also think  the situation  was complicated by the long acquaintance  
between Mr W and Mr B even though  Mr B never  formally became a client  of Mr Ws new 
firm. But as Oculus explained, not all advisors  hold the specialist qualifications necessary to 
give advice about  pension transfers. I think Mr W could have been  clearer  in writing about 
the need to seek specialist  advice  elsewhere, but I see the difficulty  in doing so while Mr B 
hadnt been formally  accepted as a client. 
Mr B says he made the decision to opt for the uplift in his pension  and just needed Mr W to 
sign the slip to confirm  his decision. But the form made clear Mr B couldnt make  the 
decision without advice.  Mr W has a professional obligation only to give advice on the 
matters hes qualified for, which at the time didnt  include pension  transfers.  It would be 
against his professional standards  to simply sign the slip to confirm a decision Mr B had 
Ref: DRN22972005made. Doing  so had the potential to make  him and Oculus liable should that advice turn out 
to be unsuitable.  And Mr B wasnt a client of Mr Ws firm, he hadnt  signed their client  
agreement, paid any fee or given authority over his policy with R. So Mr W or Oculus  were 
unable to sign the slip, and as Mr B knew he hadnt been given advice, I cant  hold Oculus  
responsible for him missing out on the opportunity to uplift  his pension  savings.
So for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2297200