K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) gave him incorrect  information which has 
led to a default notice being  issued against him. 
background
In August  2017,  Mr H says he called BoS to see if he had anything  left to pay on a loan he 
had with it. Mr H says that during the telephone call, BoS told him there  was nothing left to 
pay and it was agreed between BoS and Mr H that his direct debit could be cancelled.  Mr H 
then moved abroad. 
In April 2018, Mr H became aware that a default  notice had been  issued  against  him as the 
last payment of his loan hadnt  been  paid. 
Mr H asked BoS to remove the default because he believes that it had given him incorrect  
information. BoS said it had no record of the telephone call Mr H made to it in August 2017, 
and it was obligated to record information correctly on his credit  record.  
As Mr H and BoS were  unable to resolve  the complaint, Mr H referred  it to this service. 
Our investigator initially didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. However, through  requesting a 
subject access request from BoS, Mr H managed to obtain a recording of the telephone call 
from August 2017 and the contents of that call changed the investigators opinion.  On 
listening to the call, our investigator felt Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and she asked 
BoS to remove the default and award Mr H £100 for the inconvenience that had been 
caused to Mr H. 
Mr H responded and declined the offer. He felt it didnt reflect  the impact the default had had 
on his credit worthiness  and the costs hed incurred. He said it also didnt reflect the impact 
the situation had caused him on a personal  level. He asked that his complaint was reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
BoS didnt respond  to the investigators opinion. 
Because Mr H is unhappy with the investigators opinion,  the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued my provisional decision in June 2019  (a copy of this is attached at the bottom  of this 
decision), explaining why I was partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Both parties  responded to my decision. Id firstly like to stress  that, while Ive only included a 
summary of what Mr H has said, Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said and 
has sent me in reaching my decision. 
Mr H said he didnt think the level of compensation I was awarding was enough  given the 
trouble and upset  this complaint had caused  him. Mr H explained further why he had 
incurred postage costs arranging to send the recording  of the call to himself in Australia. And 
the impact this matter  has caused  on his creditworthiness. He was also unhappy that he was 
expected to pay the last instalment of his loan. 
Ref: DRN26743762BoS said Mr H had received annual statements so should have been aware he had an 
outstanding balance before he received the default notice. It also confirmed that it would 
have only been  able to send Mr H a CD of the call recording he had requested.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I am still upholding Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why below:
Mr H says he incurred the postage  costs  he did, because  BoS would only send the call 
recording to him in CD format. The CD was sent to his mother  and she was unable to get 
the call recording into any other format. Mr H provided a revised amount of costs  he feels  
he should be entitled to be reimbursed on. BoS has confirmed  that it could only send the 
recording in CD format. Looking  at what Mr H has sent me, he hasnt evidenced  his 
actual losses. Instead hes told us what it wouldve cost him to send  this. But it is clear  
the CD was sent to him from his mother and then he in turn sent this to us. So I whilst I 
cant ask BoS to pay for something theres  no clear evidence of the exact cost of, Ive 
taken this into account alongside all of the additional information Mr H has provided.  
Having to obtain and send  a copy of this call isnt something Mr H shouldve  had to do in 
the first place. And hes taken  the time to provide the detail about the impact this has had 
on him and the time its taken him to have to deal with it. So, Im now recommending  
BoS pay Mr H £300  for the trouble and upset this situation has caused him overall here. 
BoS has sent copies of the annual statement it sent to Mr H. It says these shouldve  
highlighted Mr H to the fact he still owed an amount. I can see that Mr H wouldve 
received on statement  in June 2017. This was before the telephone call where Mr H was 
told he had nothing  left to pay. The next statement was sent to Mr H in June  2018   this 
was after the default notice had been issued against him. So I dont think the statements 
wouldve highlighted anything to him as they were  received before  and after the events 
Mr H has complained  about. So the fact these were sent doesnt change my decision. 
Ive considered again the comments Mr H has made about  the default  having an impact  
on his creditworthiness.  But as I explained in my provisional decision,  there  is no clear 
evidence that persuades me  on balance   that Mr H has incurred any extra  charges  
directly due to the default. 
Mr H is unhappy that he still needs to repay the last amount of his loan. I understand why 
he feels like this, but my decision is to put him back in the position he shouldve been  
had nothing gone wrong. And that position would be that he was told there  was a 
remaining balance and that it needs  paying.  Ive noted the case  study hes provided but I 
consider each case on its individual circumstances. So I wont be asking BoS to write the 
amount off. 
Mr H should be reimbursed for the telephone  calls he had to make. I think  BoS couldve 
done more to find the call recording from August 2017  especially as Mr H was able to 
obtain it when  he asked. Had it done  that, then I think  the matter  couldve had been  resolved 
a lot quicker and without  the need for Mr H to make  the number of telephone calls that he 
did. 
So BoS should pay Mr H £86.12 plus 8% interests for the cost of the calls.  
Ref: DRN26743763My decision  remains that BoS should arrange  for any information it has recorded about the 
last payment to be removed from Mr Hs credit  file  including  the default notice. It should 
also remove any interest or charges added to the balance of Mr Hs loan account  because of 
the late payment  so that the balance of the loan is back to where it was in August 2017. 
This will then leave  the last part of the loan left to pay. BoS should contact Mr H to arrange 
repayment.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Bank  of Scotland  Plc to:
remove all adverse  information about  the last payment  on Mr Hs loan  including the 
default notice  so the details of the account  reflect the position the account was in in 
August 2017.  
remove any interest and charges incurred on the balance of the loan due to the final 
payment not being made.
reimburse Mr H for the cost of the telephone  calls hes made  dealing  with this matter  
 which  is £86.12 plus 8% interest.
pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) gave him incorrect information  which has led to a 
default notice being issued against him. 
Ref: DRN26743764background
In August 2017, Mr H says he called BoS to see if he had anything  left to pay on a loan he had with it. 
Mr H says that during the telephone call, BoS told him there was nothing left to pay and it was agreed 
between BoS and Mr H that his direct debit could be cancelled. Mr H then moved  abroad. 
In April 2018,  Mr H became  aware that a default  notice  had been issued against him as the last 
payment of his loan hadnt  been paid. 
Mr H asked BoS to remove the default because he believes that it had given him incorrect 
information. BoS said it had no record of the telephone call Mr H made to it in August 2017, and it was 
obligated to record information correctly on his credit record. 
As Mr H and BoS were unable  to resolve the complaint, Mr H referred it to this service.  
Our investigator initially didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. However, through requesting  a subject access 
request from BoS, Mr H managed to obtain a recording of the telephone call from August 2017 and 
the contents  of that call changed the investigators  opinion. On listening  to the call, our investigator felt 
Mr Hs complaint should be upheld  and she asked  BoS to remove the default  and award Mr H £100 
for the inconvenience that had been caused to Mr H. 
Mr H responded  and declined  the offer.  He felt it didnt  reflect the impact the default had had on his 
credit worthiness and the costs hed incurred.  He said it also didnt reflect the impact the situation had 
caused him on a personal level. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman. 
BoS didnt respond to the investigators opinion. 
Because Mr H is unhappy  with the investigators  opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im thinking  of upholding  the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The main crux of this complaint centres on what Mr H was told during the telephone call with BoS in 
August 2017.  BoS has said it has no record of the telephone call, but I can see that our investigator 
sent BoS the copy  Mr H had obtained for its comments. 
I have listened to the recording  and its clear that Mr H was told by BoS advisor twice that no loan 
was appearing on his account  so that must mean that it had been paid off. I appreciate that the 
advisor did say he wasnt in the loan department, but Mr H could reasonably have  assumed he could 
take the advice of the person he was speaking  to because they worked for his bank.  If the advisor  
was unsure, he should  have  checked. I think Mr H did enough to ensure that his loan had been paid 
off and then act as if he didnt have any more  to pay. 
Mr H then agreed for his direct  debit to be cancelled on the basis of the information he was given by 
BoS. I think Mr H acted  in good faith on the information he was told by BoS. There is nothing  to 
suggest Mr H wouldnt have paid the last instalment had he been told it was due. In fact the main 
purpose of that telephone call in 2017 was to see if he had paid off his loan or whether there was 
anything more to pay. 
Overall, I think  Mr H has lost out due to BoS error. So I think BoS needs to put Mr H back  in the 
position he would have been had he been  given the correct information. 
BoS should  arrange for any information  it has recorded  about the last payment to be removed from Mr 
Hs credit file  including the default  notice. It should also remove any interest or charges added to the 
Ref: DRN26743765balance of Mr Hs loan account  because of the late payment so that the balance of the loan is back to 
where it was in August 2017. 
This will then leave the last part of the loan left to pay. BoS should contact Mr H to arrange  
repayment.  
Mr H has provided us with a lot of information about the losses  and the impact that he says this issue 
has had on him. Ive carefully read everything hes sent me. Dealing with an issue such as this is 
always going  to be stressful. And I appreciate that Mr H has had to deal with this matter in another  
country and in a very different time zone, adding to his inconvenience and distress.  
But dealing with a complaint  is always going to have an impact on peoples times and some of what 
Mr H believes he should be compensated for; we would  only do so in very exceptional  circumstances. 
So I wont be asking BoS to reimburse or compensate Mr H for everything he has listed in his 
correspondence to us. 
Ill explain in more detail  on a couple of points he has made:
Mr H has said that the default notice has affected  his ability to get preferential  deals with his 
credit card companies  and hes provided information  to support his view. Whilst I can see that 
offers and interest rates changed, there is no clear evidence that this was impacted  by the 
default on his credit  report. Companies change offers for a number of reasons and dont all 
use the same credit  reporting agencies. I can see in the correspondence  Mr H has had with 
one of the companies  it says there are many reasons  why these  might change. So I wont be 
asking for BoS to compensate him for these losses.
Mr H has asked for his postage costs for sending  the copies of the telephone call recording 
from his UK address  to be reimbursed.  Whilst I understand he wanted to get these  items sent 
to him, there  were other  ways these could have been sent without the use of posting  them. I 
appreciate Mr H was trying to keep to the deadlines this service had set, but we wouldve 
always given him more  time had he asked. So I wont  be asking BoS to cover these costs. 
But, Mr H should be reimbursed for the telephone calls he had to make.  I think  BoS couldve done 
more to find the call recording from August 2017  especially as Mr H was able to obtain it when he 
asked. Had it done that, then I think the matter couldve had been resolved  a lot quicker and without 
the need  for Mr H to make the number  of telephone calls that he did. So BoS should pay Mr H £86.12 
plus 8% interests for the cost of these  calls.  
BoS should  also pay Mr H £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him. I think  
discovering a default has been placed on your credit file is always  going to be distressing  but in this 
matter, Mr H was under  the reasonable assumption that his loan had been repaid. And he has been 
inconvenienced in having to deal with the matter  when  he shouldnt have been.    
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from Mr H or BoS by 
25 June 2019  is to uphold this complaint. I intend to require Bank of Scotland  plc to:
remove all adverse  information about the last payment on Mr Hs loan  including the default  
notice so the details  of the account reflect the position the account  was in in August 2017.  
remove any interest and charges incurred  on the balance of the loan due to the final payment 
not being  made.
reimburse Mr H for the cost of the telephone calls hes made dealing with this matter   which 
is £86.12 plus 8% interest.
Ref: DRN26743766pay Mr H £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset this matter has caused.
Mr H will then need  to arrange to pay the outstanding  balance of the loan with Bank of Scotland  plc. 
Ref: DRN2674376