K821x#15complaint
Mr P, represented by his solicitor, complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as 
QuickQuid) lent money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr P entered into five loans with QuickQuid between  September  2016 and October 2017. 
Loan Initial amount Date Top up loans repaid
1 £100 September 2016 November 2016
2 £200 December 2016 February 2017
3 £100 March 2017 £75 (18 March 2017)
£75 (26 March 2017)June 2017
4 £100 July 2017 £100 (17 July 2017)
£50 (8 August 2017)September 2017
5 £50 October 2017 £75 (19 September 2017)
£50 (27 October 2017)
£50 (17 November  2017)January 2018
Mr P says that the loans were unaffordable  and that he had to borrow  to make  the 
repayments. He says the loans trapped him in a spiral of debt.
QuickQuid doesnt  accept that the loans were  irresponsibly lent. It says that before lending to 
Mr P it carried out proportionate affordability  checks including  validating  Mr Ps income  and 
expenses using Mr Ps credit file and other  external data sources. It says its checks  were in 
line with the relevant guidelines. It says its checks showed the loans were  affordable.
QuickQuid also says that Mr P didnt  incur any late fees suggesting that he wasnt  struggling 
to meet  his repayments.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt  think there was enough evidence to 
say that loans one and two shouldnt have been  provided. However he thought that loans  
three to five shouldnt have been provided. He recommended that Mr P be refunded all 
interest and charges that he paid on the loans from 18 March  2017 (after the first top up) 
until 15 October 2017 and that his credit file should be amended.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators decision and reiterated that it believed the checks 
carried out before the loans were provided  were proportionate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
P could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN25788012the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make  their 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC), defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P entered into five loans with QuickQuid and received top up amounts on loans three to 
five. Loans two to five were all taken out shortly  after the previous  loans  had been  repaid 
and so I accept  these are all part of the same lending chain.
Before the loans were  provided, QuickQuid gathered information on Mr Ps income and 
expenses and carried out verification and credit checks. Mr Ps declared  monthly  income 
was just over £1,000  and his expenses £635.  
In regard to the first two loans, given the loan amounts and what was apparent  about  Mr Ps 
circumstances, I think  the checks carried out by QuickQuid were proportionate.  There wasnt 
anything in the information provided or the information QuickQuid shouldve  been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to carry out further checks.  Therefore I do not 
uphold this complaint in regard to these loans.
Loan three was initially  for £100.  At this stage  I still find that the checks  were  proportionate. 
However, Mr P then topped up the loan a couple of days  later.  I have looked through  Mr Ps 
Ref: DRN25788013bank statements from when he topped up his third loan and can see that he had other short  
term borrowing commitments. 
By the time of the top up loan I think that Mr Ps overall pattern of borrowing suggested  he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. Mr P had taken out three loans  in six 
months and topped up a loan days after he took it out. The second loan was for a higher 
amount than the first and although the third loan started out as the same amount as the first 
(lower than the second)  he then topped  this loan up with a further £75 and then again 
around a week later.  Mr Ps loans, including top ups, didnt significantly decrease over the 
rest of the borrowing  relationship with QuickQuid.  In my view,  the pattern  of lending itself 
shows that the loans from the top up loan on loan three were unsustainable.
Because of the above, I dont think that the top  up loan on loan three  or subsequent  loans 
should have been provided  and so I uphold this complaint in regard to these loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as 
QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr P paid on the loans  from 18 March 2017  (the 
first top up) until 15 October  2017;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Ps credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 means  any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr Ps credit file.
*HMRC requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  If Mr P asks QuickQuid  for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, it should provide  this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2578801