K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  didnt deal with his home emergency 
claim fairly or reasonably. Mr P wants  more  compensation to cover the costs of the damage  
for which he holds British Gas responsible.
background
Mr P had a home emergency policy with British Gas,  which  was meant  to provide assistance 
to him if the plumbing in his property  needed repairs (amongst other services). Mr Ps 
bathroom had a leak, or a number of leaks. Mr P said that British  Gas attended his property 
four times and made the leak worse. He said that this caused damage to the ceiling below 
the leak, and was unhappy  that British Gas wouldnt repair  the damage.
Mr P complained to British Gas. It said it didnt cause the leak and the terms and conditions 
of the policy  clearly excluded any liability for damage that wasnt caused by its contractors, 
such as damage caused  by water leaks. British Gas said that on each visit different work 
was carried out, and it wasnt the case that four visits were required to repair the same item; 
one repeat visit was required  as only one engineer  was sent to do a job which  needed two 
engineers. It did accept though that it had given poor service and caused inconvenience  by 
wrongly sending  an engineer not an electrician to deal with one matter, and offered £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by these failings.
Mr P complained to us. The investigators view was that British  Gas offer was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. It had caused  trouble  and upset by not sending  an 
electrician, but it didnt  cause the original  water damage and had carried  out repairs to 
different fixtures in the bathroom. The investigator noted that the policy excluded damage  
caused by water leaks not caused  by British  Gas, and said that there  wasnt evidence to 
show British Gas caused the leak. 
Mr P disagreed. He said that he believed British Gas made  the leak worse. Mr P provided 
more information  about the history of the leak and the investigator got more  evidence from 
British Gas. She changed her view as a result and said that the evidence showed that the 
leak was appearing in the same place  over and over, and British Gas was repairing different 
items in order to try and stop it over a six week period. She thought  that if British  Gas had 
correctly identified the whereabouts of the leak, it wouldnt have lasted for over a month and 
caused damage to the ceiling below. 
The investigator said British Gas should  pay half the cost of repairing the ceiling  (to reflect  
that it didnt cause the original leak) and pay a further £150 compensation as the calls 
showed Mr P was very worried about  the effect on the electrics and his vulnerable  family  
member. Mr P also explained that the situation meant part of the house was dark (bulbs had 
been removed  due to the leak), which was dangerous. The investigator also noted that 
British Gas didnt  properly record what was happening in its system, causing Mr P to have to 
repeat himself.
British Gas disagreed  with the investigators  second view. It said that there  were  different 
leaks dealt with over a 20 day period in different areas of the bathroom. British Gas said it 
wasnt there to find leaks not spotted  by a consumer  and denied  liability for the damage.
Ref: DRN20225912my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Im not persuaded  that the evidence  does show the original leak was connected to the later 
leak. Different items within the bathroom were repaired  by British Gas and theres no 
objective evidence  supporting Mr Ps argument  that there was only ever one leak. I have no 
doubt at all that the same ceiling was affected by the leak, but theres nothing  before me 
showing that there was only one leak. In fact, Mr Ps account  supports British Gas view that 
there was more than one leak;  for example, after the first repair was carried out, a significant 
period of time passed before a further leak needed  to be repaired.  Mr P wasnt  waiting six 
weeks for one leak to be repaired in my view.
And leaks are notoriously difficult  to trace and repair. British Gas was dealing with several  
leaks appearing at different times, and I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when dealing with those leaks. It didnt know that the first repair  was a two engineer job until 
it was inspected. And the policy clearly says unless the leak was caused by British Gas,  it 
isnt responsible for the costs of repair. Making a leak worse by leaving  it (though  I dont 
think this is what happened) isnt the same thing as causing the leak.
Taking into account all the evidence available  to me, I dont think  there was one leak and I 
cant say that British Gas caused the leaks or caused undue  delay. Given the terms of the 
policy, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say British Gas should  contribute  towards 
the cost of repair of the ceiling.
That doesnt  mean that British Gas didnt get things wrong when dealing  with Mr P. It sent an 
electrician when he needed an engineer. This understandably caused trouble, upset and 
minor delay. Mr P did have  to repeat his issues to British Gas on the phone. But I dont think  
British Gas is responsible  for all the trouble and upset suffered as I havent found that there 
was only one leak and that it took too long to deal with it. While I accept Mr P was worried 
about his electrics and family, I dont think this was really  caused by British  Gas failure to 
find and deal with one leak; effectively, Mr Ps bathroom had a number of leaks  and they 
took time to repair.
In all the circumstances of this case,  I think £100  compensation is fair and reasonable. The 
only failings I have  found are in respect of sending  an electrician when an engineer  was 
needed and ensuring that the system properly reflected the situation  to avoid Mr P having to 
repeat himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  British  Gas accepted my view.  But Mr P disagreed. 
He said that he felt that I hadnt considered the evidence properly and I shouldnt side with 
big organisations.
I appreciate Mr Ps disappointment,  but this service  is impartial. I have carefully  considered 
the evidence provided; I remain of the view set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN20225913my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 9 
November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022591