K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that John  Lewis  Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) wont uphold a 
complaint he made to them  under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
In January 2018 Mr W bought ski equipment from an overseas merchant using his John 
Lewis credit  card.
He complained to the merchant. He said the bindings were inadequate  and despite their 
attempts to adjust  them he had regularly come out of them whilst skiing. He said hed 
suffered injuries  as a result which required physical therapy.  He explained that when he 
changed the bindings the new ones worked perfectly.  So he suggested  this was proof there  
was a fault with the original ones supplied by the merchant.
He also complained about the boot warmers.  He said the batteries were  scratched and he 
therefore didnt  think they were  new.  
He said the insoles, hed purchased for $44.99  plus tax, werent  fitted properly and he went 
on to complain that the lenses on the goggles hed purchased were  too difficult  to replace.
When Mr W wasnt able to resolve matters with the merchant  he contacted John Lewis  as he 
said section 75 gave  him a like claim against the provider of credit.
John Lewis  explained  that theyd need proof  that the bindings  on the boots were inadequate 
from an expert. They explained that for them to consider  any loss due to injury they would 
also need to see evidence that the injuries  Mr W had were  directly due to a fault with the 
bindings.
Mr W didnt think  this was reasonable and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator noted that Mr W had received replacements for the goggles and boots from the 
manufacturer and he therefore didnt consider these issues any further. He noted there were 
scratches on the batteries but he didnt  think this was evidence  they werent  of a satisfactory 
standard or new.  He explained  that section 75 only allowed a credit  provider to consider 
complaints for items over £100 and as the insoles cost less than that he didnt think John 
Lewis had been  unreasonable rejecting  that part of the claim. So, overall, he didnt think  the 
business had done anything wrong  and he didnt support Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W was unhappy with the investigators view and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Mr W so please  let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN24689062Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback or a section 75 claim.  This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that 
in certain circumstances, the borrower  under a credit agreement  has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider  as against the supplier if there's either a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
is there evidence of a breach of contract?
If I found that the bindings were of unsatisfactory  quality then Id think there had been  a 
breach of contract and Id ask John  Lewis to take some action.
They asked Mr W to prove  the goods were faulty but Im not persuaded hes been able to 
and, whilst I dont dispute his expertise in mechanical engineering, I am not persuaded that 
hes a suitable  expert  as he could not be seen to be independent.
So I dont  think John  Lewis have  been  unreasonable when rejecting his claim regarding  the 
bindings and it follows that I dont think they have been unfair when  refusing  to compensate  
him for his injuries. Without a demonstration  there was anything  wrong with the bindings it 
would not be possible to link the injury to any breach  of contract.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that the boot warmers were of unsatisfactory 
quality either. Whilst the batteries may have been  scratched Ive not seen evidence they 
were defective or that the warmers didnt function  properly. I dont think John Lewis  have 
therefore been unreasonable rejecting this part of Mr Ws claim.
what about the other items? 
The goggles have  subsequently been  replaced  by the manufacturer  and I therefore dont 
think theres any loss that John Lewis  need  to compensate  Mr W for.
Section 75 claims can only be raised if the cash value of individual  goods is more than £100  
but no more than £30,000.  The insoles  cost less than £100  so I dont think John Lewis have 
been unfair when  rejecting a claim for these under section 75 and overall,  I dont think  it 
would be fair to ask them  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN24689063my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2468906