K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that the vehicle  she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited trading as Alphera Financial  Services  was not of 
satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background 
Miss W tells us that in June 2018  she acquired a vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as B. 
She says she reported a number of problems with the vehicle including backfiring; engine 
warning light coming  on; gearbox problems and loss of power.  She said that repairs  were 
completed under warranty but the problems  persisted and the engine management light had 
come on again and carbon monoxide  fumes were  leaking into the vehicle. She feels  this is 
due to the same fault and wants to reject  the vehicle.
BMW told us that B had arranged for the gearbox on the vehicle to be replaced as this fault 
had been reported within six months  of supply. But it said the second fault was reported 
outside of this period and was unrelated to the first fault. It said there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show that the later fault was present  at the point of supply. And it said that B had 
both faults repaired  without cost to Miss W. It said it recognised that Miss W had been 
without the vehicle for 10 weeks  and offered to refund three monthly payments.
Our adjudicator said he was unable to support a rejection of the vehicle.  He said the first 
fault had been repaired by replacing  the gearbox  in December 2018. And the second  fault 
had been dealt with by replacing spark plugs.  But he said there was no evidence  the repairs  
were connected. He thought BMWs offer to refund three monthly payments was fair but he 
felt it should also pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience of having  to make trips to 
the dealers.
BMW agreed  with the adjudicators findings but Miss W didnt. She said she wanted it to go 
to the next level as she wanted to know exactly what was wrong with the vehicle and how it 
would affect the warranty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss W has experienced problems with this vehicle. And I understand that 
shes disappointed  that problems arose so soon after she acquired  it. Unfortunately, with 
used vehicles this is always  a risk and whilst this vehicle was only three years old when she 
acquired it, the mileage, just over 50,000  miles, was well above average  for such  a period.
Miss Ws hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act of 2015 (CRA).
Theres no dispute that shortly after she took possession  of the vehicle Miss W was reporting  
problems. And this culminated with the gearbox  being replaced in December 2018.  The 
repair was completed  by a garage authorised by the manufacturers, which Ill refer to as H.
Ref: DRN23087742And the mileage recorded at the time of the repair was 54,444  miles.
Soon afterwards it appears the vehicle suffered a breakdown in January 2019  and was 
recovered to H for further examination. Ive seen an invoice from 12 January 2019  which  
states the vehicle was road tested and no fault found. But subsequently a further 
examination and inspection occurred in early March 2019. It seems this revealed an issue 
with a spark  plug and also that a breather  pipe had become dislodged.  New spark plugs 
were fitted  and the breather pipe refitted. The cost was covered by B. On 12 April 2019 the 
vehicle passed  an MOT  test, the recorded  mileage at the time being 55,254 miles.
Whilst Miss W has continued  to be dissatisfied with the vehicle and I understand its 
suggested the engine warning light might  indicate an intermittent fault, Ive no information 
which shows that any remaining fault with the vehicle was present  at the point of supply. I 
can see the adjudicator tried to get BMW to agree to fund a further inspection  of the vehicle. 
But it declined on the basis  that the latest reported fault with the spark plugs was not related 
to the earlier  repair.
Briefly summarised, the CRA states that, in order to conform to contract, goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And its presumed that faults  arising within six months  of 
supply are present  at the point of supply unless its otherwise established.  Here  the gearbox  
was replaced as it was accepted this fault had arisen within  six months of supply. And if 
there was information  to show that this repair had failed  then Miss W would be entitled  to 
reject the vehicle.
Based on the information with which Ive been supplied  Im not able to say that the gearbox 
repair has failed or was related to the subsequent  issues with the spark  plugs. Wed normally  
consider the replacement of spark plugs to be matter of a routine maintenance to be 
expected with a vehicle  of this age and mileage. The breather  pipe couldve become loose 
for a number of reasons and seems  to have been  easily rectified. Again this is something  
that would  normally  be considered a wear and tear matter.
Although an MOT test is not an exhaustive  inspection of all aspects of a vehicle - it does 
cover safety  aspects including ensuring  that there are no leaks  in the fuel or exhaust 
systems. And given  the vehicle has travelled several  hundred  miles since the gearbox was 
replaced Ive no information  which would cause  me to think  that repair had failed.
In summary,  I think the vehicle was probably  not of satisfactory quality when supplied. But 
following the repairs carried out in December 2018 the vehicle conformed to contract. Ive no 
information that allows me to say these repairs failed and that the issues with the spark plug 
were related  to the original fault. In those circumstances I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable of me to say Miss W should now be able to reject  the vehicle.
But she was without the vehicle for several weeks whilst the various examinations and 
repairs were carried out. So I think she should be compensated  for this. In respect of this I 
think BMWs offer to refund three  monthly  payments is fair. But I also agree with the 
adjudicators view that Miss W experienced additional distress and inconvenience in the 
several visits to the garage which were necessitated  as a result  of the various issues. I think  
his suggestion  of £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable.
Finally, Im aware  Miss W has made reference to the warranty  on this vehicle. And I 
understand shes considering the possibility of taking legal action. So I want to make  clear 
Im not making any findings about  this warranty as Ive no details of it or exactly what  
aspects of the vehicle it may cover. So she remains free to take such action as she is able.
Ref: DRN23087743my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that in order  to settle this complaint  I 
require BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services  to take 
the following  action:
1.Refund three monthly payments  to Miss W to reflect  impaired use of the vehicle and 
pay simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of 
settlement.
2.Pay £150 to Miss W in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If there are arrears  on the agreement BMW Financial Services(GB)  Limited trading as 
Alphera Financial  Services  may deduct any sums  arising out of item 1 above before  making 
any refund, if any remains due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2308774