K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP (trading as Uncle  Buck)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr L took one loan from Uncle Buck. He borrowed £250 in October  2014  and agreed  to 
repay the loan the following month. There is a balance on the loan that remains outstanding.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mr Ls complaint.  He concluded that Uncle Buck  didnt need 
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loan to Mr L and didnt do anything 
wrong. Mr L didnt agree  with our adjudicator. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  did a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference  agencies. And it 
Ref: DRN23600842then used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Mr L had left over each 
month. Uncle Buck also used the credit  reference  agency checks to gather some more 
information about Mr Ls financial situation at that time.
Mr L has told our service  that he did not have sufficient income to repay the loan at that time 
and that it should have  picked up on this. But this was the first time Mr L had approached 
Uncle Buck  for a loan from what I have seen, I dont  think there was any reason for Uncle 
Buck to doubt  the information Mr L had provided  about his income and expenditure.
In addition, I have  seen results from the credit checks that Uncle Buck  carried  out at the 
time. These checks failed  to show any information that might have suggested Mr L was 
having problems  managing his money. The checks didnt show  any concerning  information  
such as bankruptcy,  court  orders or defaulted  accounts. 
The repayment that Mr L had agreed  to make on his loan was relatively modest compared to 
the income that hed declared  to Uncle Buck. And based on what he had told Uncle  Buck 
and the credit checks it carried out, the repayment  appeared to be easily  affordable. So 
given this, what was apparent  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, and his lack of 
borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Uncle  Buck 
to ask him for the amount of information  that would  be needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. So I dont  think Uncle  Buck was wrong to give this loan to Mr L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2360084