K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained with the help of a representative that Covea Insurance plc has turned 
down his claim under his motor trade  insurance policy. 
background
A named driver under Mr Rs policy was involved in an accident while driving  one of the cars 
insured under it. Mr R claimed under the policy. Covea rejected the claim because the car 
didnt have a valid MOT  certificate at the time of the accident. And the policy excludes claims 
for loss, damage or liability if the insured  vehicle  doesnt have one at the time the loss, 
damage or liability occurs.  
Mr R complained to Covea about this and the fact he was also being pursued for money by 
the insurance company who insured the other car involved  in the accident.  Covea rejected 
both complaints, as it felt its decision to decline the claim was correct.  It further  explained 
that the other insurer had said it was going  to pursue Mr R directly for reimbursement of 
what it had paid out on the claim  for the car it was insuring. And that this meant  Covea would 
not get involved unless it had to settle  the claim due to its obligations under the Road Traffic 
Act. And this would only happen if Mr R didnt settle  the claim by the other insurer  or driver 
himself. 
Mr R wasnt happy and asked us to consider his complaint.  One of our investigators 
explained to Covea she thought it should  be upheld. She agreed the policy did have an 
exception clause in it which  said Covea wouldnt cover claims for damage or liability if the 
insured vehicle was being  driven  without  a valid MOT certificate.  But she said it wasnt  fair 
for Covea  to rely on it to reject Mr Rs claim, because it was unlikely the fact the insured 
vehicle didnt have  a valid MOT certificate led to the accident resulting in the claim Mr R had 
made. She also said Coveas rejection of the claim had caused  unnecessary  inconvenience  
and it should pay £150 in compensation  to reflect this. 
Covea doesnt  agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. Its 
said that it is for Mr R to prove the lack of a valid MOT certificate made  no difference and he 
hasnt done this. So, it thinks its entitled to reject his claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  covers accidental damage to vehicles insured  under  it and liability  that any 
insured driver has arising out of the use of an insured vehicle. But it does have an exception  
that applies if the damage or liability occurred while the insured vehicle was being driven 
without a valid MOT certificate. 
The vehicle Mr R has claimed  for was insured under the policy  and was being driven by an 
insured driver, but it didnt have a valid MOT at the time it was involved in an accident. So, I 
can see why Covea  rejected Mr Rs claim. And I can also see why it is particularly concerned  
that Mr R was allowing  a vehicle without a valid MOT  certificate to be driven. 
However, the policy also has a clause in it which states Covea wont refuse a claim where 
payment is conditional on compliance  with a term, if the policyholder can prove non-
Ref: DRN28755302compliance with the term couldnt have increased  the risk of the damage  or liability. This 
term is in line with relevant legislation for commercial insurance  and in line with what  I 
consider produces  a fair and reasonable  outcome  in this situation.
In this case, Mr R has  in effect  failed to comply with a policy  term that required him to 
make sure any car insured under the policy had a valid MOT  certificate when being driven. 
But, despite what Covea  has suggested,  Im satisfied Mr R has proved that its most likely 
non-compliance with this term could not have  increased the risk of damage  or liability  in the 
circumstances giving  rise to his claim for two reasons. 
Firstly, Mr Rs representative has provided a receipt which  suggests  the insured car in 
question had a pre-MOT check just before the accident. And, while the receipt  doesnt  say it 
was likely to pass,  it doesnt suggest otherwise. It also seems from the evidence provided 
the vehicle had failed a MOT or  at least failed  a pre-MOT check - just before the accident, 
because the central  locking  system wasnt working, but not for anything else.  Both these 
things make me think it is most likely the insured vehicle was roadworthy  at the time of the 
accident. 
Secondly, it looks like the accident giving rise to the claim  happened  when  the insured 
vehicle pulled out of a side road in front of an oncoming vehicle. And, irrespective of who 
was responsible for the accident, I cant see how  even if the insured vehicle was 
unroadworthy, this could in any way have  contributed to the accident. 
In the circumstances, I dont think Covea is entitled  to rely on the fact the insured  vehicle  
didnt have a valid MOT  certificate to turn down Mr Rs claim.  And it therefore  follows,  I think 
the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint is for Covea to consider his claim for 
the insured vehicle if he would like it to in accordance with the remaining policy  terms. And I 
also think it should take on and deal with the claim by the third party  who was involved in the 
accident with Mr Rs vehicle or from the insurance  company  representing them.
Ive also noted  Covea doesnt  appear  to have properly investigated  whether  the lack of a 
valid MOT certificate  made any difference to the accident. Instead it just seems  to have 
rejected Mr Rs claim, having assumed  this was the case. Its suggested it asked Mr R for 
evidence to prove that it wouldnt  have made  any difference, but this is not what  it looks like 
when reading  its claim handling notes. Therefore, I also think  Covea caused Mr R 
unnecessary inconvenience by turning down his claim without an adequate investigation or 
appropriate consideration. And I agree with our investigator that compensation of £150 to 
reflect this is appropriate. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Covea Insurance  plc to 
do the following:
Consider his claim for the insured vehicle if he would  like Covea to do so, in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms. 
Take on and deal with the claim by the third party who was involved in the accident 
with Mr Rs vehicle or from the insurance company representing them.
Pay Mr R £150 in compensation for inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN28755303Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2875530