K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold two payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policies.
background
Mrs P took out two credit  cards at the same time with Lloyds  a MasterCard and a Visa 
card. Lloyds doesnt know when the PPI was sold, but it has relied on the start date of the 
credit cards when investigating  this complaint   which was in 1996.  The earliest date for 
which weve  seen PPI appearing  on one of Mrs Ps credit card statements is 2000. So, when 
investigating this complaint,  we have looked at how Lloyds  sold PPI between  1996
and 2000, on the basis it must have been sold during that period.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mrs P aware  the PPI was optional and she chose to
take it. Mrs P says she doesnt  remember PPI being discussed when she took out 
the credit  cards,  and that she wouldnt  have  agreed to buy it. I cant  be sure what was 
discussed between  Mrs P and Lloyds when  the policies were sold, and the 
documents from the point of sale are no longer available. Thats not surprising as its 
many years since  the policies were  sold.
But from what we know about Lloyds sales processes between 1996 and 2000,  Mrs 
P wouldve had to actively select the PPI. I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve 
added the PPI to Mrs Ps account if she hadnt  agreed to buy it. Although  I accept it is 
possible PPI wasnt discussed, it is equally likely  it was, and Mrs P now cant  
remember this. 
So without anything  else to support  what Mrs P has told me, I dont think  I can fairly 
say that Lloyds didnt make  her aware  the PPI was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mrs P, but it doesnt  look as 
if it was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
Mrs P says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer. But the policies wouldve 
paid out in addition to her employer benefits  and would do so, it seems,  for longer. 
Having the policies in place wouldve meant Mrs P could use her employer sick pay 
to cover other expenses. So I think the policies  wouldve been useful to Mrs P if she 
couldnt work.
Ref: DRN24157972Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs P would have been  affected by any of the 
main things the policies didnt  cover. And the policies were competitively priced and 
had reasonable benefits.  So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her 
buying them.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2415797