K821x#15Complaint
Mr Js unhappy with the advice he received from Gerald Pepper Financial Management 
Limited  (GPFM)  to transfer benefits  from a final salary occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) 
to a personal pension plan (PPP). Mr J considers that the advice was unsuitable.
Background
By 2017 Mr J had accrued 31 years pensionable  service  under his OPS which comprised of 
two service periods.  The transfer value for one period which Ill refer to as SP1 was 
£95,994. And the transfer value for the second period which Ill refer to as SP2 was 
£471,341. Apart from his state pension entitlement, Mr Js OPS  represented his only 
retirement provision.
Mr J was introduced to GPFM by a friend who was also one of its clients.  In March 2017, Mr 
J met with GPFM. His friend  also attended  the meeting.  GPFM completed a fact find and a 
risk profiling questionnaire  was carried out. To summarise, the following information was 
recorded:
Mr J was aged 64, employed and earning  £58,000 a year. His monthly expenditure 
was £1,200 which he didnt expect to change in retirement
Mr J was married  and in good health. He had no debts and owned two mortgage  free 
properties  their combined value was £700,000 
Mr J had considerable amounts of cash and savings. The specific  amounts werent 
disclosed due to his friends presence, but Mr J said hed discuss this with GPFM at 
his next meeting 
Mr J was looking to draw  an annual pension income of around £18,000 
Mr J planned to accept a redundancy payment of £38,000 (£30,000 would be tax 
free) from his employer  and retire in April 2017.  He intended to take his SP1 benefits 
for certainty of income throughout  the rest of his life and felt this and his state 
pension at age 65 would more  than cover his cost of living  forever
Mr J said hed looked at what his total OPS  could  provide (as a regular income and 
spouse benefit)  and didnt want or need this much money
Mr J wanted the flexibility to do what he liked with his SP2 benefits
Mr J said he could draw on his savings  in retirement if needed and explained that his 
main objective was to leave as much of his pension fund intact to pass onto his wife 
and then children
Mr J didnt need a tax-free cash lump  sum (TFC) but would like the ability  to access 
this to help his children financially in the future if needed
GPFM explained that its starting position  was to assume a transfer wouldnt be 
suitable without  evidence clearly demonstrating  it was in Mr Js best interests
Mr J completed  a risk profile  questionnaire and discussed and accepted the results. 
On a scale of 1-10 Mr Js ATR was determined  to be level 6/medium 
Mr J said his main driver  was to keep his SP2 fund as large as possible over the 
long term
On 9 May 2017  Mr J contacted GPFM  querying  how things were progressing  with its 
recommendation. GPFM advised it would be able to make its recommendation shortly. Call 
notes from the time recorded that:
Mr J confirmed hed taken his employers redundancy  payment and retired
Ref: DRN20698572Mr J had changed his mind about  taking  his SP1 benefits  and felt his whole OPS 
transfer value  might be more suited  to providing  him with an income now and leaving 
the maximum possible fund for his family
There was also an emotional consideration for Mr J which  was that he wanted his 
funds away from his former employer and in his control
GPFM produced a Defined Benefit (DB) Transfer Summary on 11 May 2017. Amongst other 
things the following was recorded:
The investment  return  (critical yield) required from an alternative defined  contribution  
(DC) scheme  to match  Mr Js OPS  for both SP1 and SP2 was more than 50%. Given 
Mr Js ATR, this didnt appear achievable
GPFM believed  that only certain returns could be achieved  at certain risk levels.  Mr 
Js risk profile of 6/medium was likely  to provide  an income  closely  related to 
investment returns of 8%
As its view was that Mr Js total OPS  transfer value could comfortably and 
sustainably provide Mr Js desired income in retirement, GPFM was confident a 
transfer to a DC scheme to facilitate Flexi-Access Drawdown was suitable
On 12 May 2017 GPFM produced a Retirement Planning Report.  It advised  Mr J to transfer  
the total value of his SP1 and SP2 OPS benefits  over £550,000  to a Royal London  PPP 
which facilitated Flexi-Access Drawdown, saying it was confident this would assist  him in 
meeting his objectives. It also recommended  an investment  strategy saying this would 
satisfy Mr Js requirement for capital growth potential.  GPFM confirmed Mr J could  take 
£1,000 a month from his PPP and use his cash, savings and redundancy money to cover 
any shortfall in income until his state pension commenced. 
GPFM met with Mr J on 13 May 2017  and discussed  the contents  of its DB Transfer  
Summary. Mr J was provided with GPFMs Retirement Planning  Report which was also 
discussed. Further to this Mr J accepted  GPFMs  advice and the combined value of his OPS 
benefits was transferred  to a Flexi-Access Drawdown PPP account.
In 2018 Mr J complained  about the advice hed received from GPFM, saying he didnt 
believe it was suitable. GPFM responded to Mr Js complaint and disagreed. It said that by 
transferring Mr Js objectives at the time had been  met and so its advice had been suitable in 
the circumstances.
Unhappy with GPFMs response, Mr J referred  his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the matter and said the complaint should be upheld. Mr J 
responded and agreed with the investigator. However, GPFM disagreed and made  further 
submissions. Our investigator considered GPFMs additional points, but his view remained 
the same. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. GPFM 
requested an oral hearing saying Mr Js complaint  couldnt be decided based  on the 
documentation on file alone. Having carefully reviewed the file and taking account all the 
available evidence, including  statements made by GPFM and Mr J, I explained  in my letter  of 
26 November 2020 that I considered that all the material issues  were comprehensively 
covered in the parties submissions and I was satisfied I didnt require a hearing to fairly 
determine the outcome of the complaint.
Ref: DRN20698573GPFM responded suggesting that, if I didnt think an oral hearing was required, Mr J should 
be asked if hed be willing to purchase an annuity  to replace his OPS benefits. It said that 
only if Mr J agreed  to this would there be evidence to suggest Mr J was truly concerned 
about his pension arrangements and wasnt merely seeking an unwarranted compensation 
payment.
I carefully considered  GPFMs point, bearing in mind the various  concerns it had raised 
about the legitimacy of Mr Js complaint  and what it considers to be his questionable 
intentions and motivations behind making  it. However, I didnt find that posing  this question 
to Mr J would assist  me in deciding  the issue I considered to be central to this complaint. 
That is to say, whether  the advice GPFM gave  Mr J was suitable. Furthermore, whether I 
considered the complaint to be valid or not would  be reflected in the outcome of the case.  Its 
also noted that in his submissions to this service  Mr J has made no specific  proposal or 
request regarding redress in the event his complaint is upheld.  
As my position on the hearing  request  remained the same and I didnt consider I needed any 
further information to decide the matter,  Mr Js case was referred back to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint and thank them for 
their patience. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint. Ill explain  why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of 
the extensive arguments made and considered them in their entirety,  the purpose of my 
decision isnt to comment on every  point raised.  Because of this Ive limited  my response  to 
the issue I consider  to be central to this complaint  the suitability of GPFMs advice. 
It's evident GPFM and Mr J dispute what was discussed during advice meetings in 2017. 
Theres also disagreement about what information GPFM provided Mr J with during the 
advice period. To be clear, my findings below are based on the facts as presented  by the 
available evidence in this case.  And its only where  the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive  
or contradictory, as some  of it is here, that Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
The regulators position  
At the time of GPFMs advice, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out 
the principles for assessing suitability. The relevant rules are 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 as set out in the 
FCAs Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). These required GPFM  to gather 
sufficient information  from Mr J to ensure its recommendation met his objectives; that Mr J 
could financially withstand the risks associated  with these objectives  and that Mr J had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the overall 
transaction.
Overall, Im not satisfied  all the factors in deciding suitability were met in this case. I dont 
think GPFM went far enough in terms of gathering and recording enough information about 
Mr Js circumstances; adequately exploring and interrogating his objectives or satisfactorily 
evaluating, explaining and documenting the associated  risks of transferring. Because of this I 
Ref: DRN20698574dont think it was reasonable for GPFM  to conclude transferring was the most appropriate 
course of action for Mr J to take. 
Mr Js OPS was a final salary scheme.  Such schemes typically have significant benefits  and 
guarantees. Giving these  up and subjecting  future  pension income to the risks associated 
with unpredictable investment returns should  only be done  where  it can clearly be shown to 
be in the best interests of the consumer. To this end the regulator stated under COBS  19.1.6 
that:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined  benefits occupational 
pension scheme  (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer  () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests. 
GPFM says it took the same position. 
By transferring, Mr J was giving up what was intended to provide a secure income in 
retirement in favor  of an uncertain  income  largely reliant on the investment performance of a 
new scheme. In my view,  this represented a relatively risky strategy. GPFM appeared to 
recognise this when it its Transfer Summary it reminded  Mr J that the regulators view on DB 
transfers was that they were high-risk business. 
Given the regulators position, my starting point is that a transfer wont  usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  is in a consumers best interests  merely 
meeting their apparent objectives  wouldnt,  in my view, be enough.  
Mr Js position at the time of GPFMs advice
GPFM has referred to the fact that Mr J approached it for advice about OPS  transfers.  I 
accept this indicates Mr J was open to transferring, but I dont think it meant transferring was 
automatically the best route to go down,  nor, as GPFM seems to accept,  did this mean it had 
to facilitate the transfer. I believe the fact he was seeking financial advice more likely 
demonstrates Mr J was only willing to transfer if it was deemed appropriate. And thats what I 
think he wanted from GPFM  confirmation  of what was in his best interests with regards  to 
his OPS benefits and retirement.
The starting point  of GPFMs  advice  process appears to have been  obtaining  information  
about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. As I noted above,  Mr J was 64 years old, in good  
health and had accrued  significant  periods of pensionable service  in his OPS . Given his 
proximity to state retirement age and the redundancy  payment  offered by his employer, its 
understandable Mr J wanted to consider his retirement options.  
Mr J didnt have any debts and held property assets worth  around £700,000. Although  
GPFM recorded that Mr J had considerable cash/savings,  no information regarding  specific 
amounts or what this comprised of was noted. It seems reasonable that, due to his friends  
presence, GPFM initially accepted Mr J not disclosing this information during  its first 
meeting. However,  its not clear to me why this wasnt  proactively gathered  by GPFM at a 
later date and certainly before its recommendation that Mr J completely transfer out of his 
OPS. As GPFM has said, it expects  all its advisors to collect full know your client 
information, which  I consider Mr Js full financial position to be a part of. 
Ref: DRN20698575In my view, not establishing the specifics of Mr Js financial  position  meant  that key 
information was missing, without which I dont think GPFM could  reasonably conclude  
transferring was in Mr Js best interests or that the risks associated  with doing so were those 
he could financially withstand.  
Notwithstanding the information GPFM failed to collect, I accept that Mr Js financial position 
was, by all general  appearances,  quite favourable. Its my understanding that at the time of 
GPFMs advice,  Mr J held approximately £200,000  in cash  savings, while  his wife held 
around £70,000. This was in addition to the redundancy  payment Mr J received for £38,000, 
most of which was tax free.
GPFM recorded that Mr J considered he had high levels of savings/other assets  he could 
draw on in retirement if needed  and felt that, having looked at the available  benefits under 
his OPS (regular income and spouse  benefit), he didnt want or need  this much money. 
While this may have been Mr Js view, the fact remains that he was ultimately dependent on 
GPFMs expertise as his financial adviser.  Mr J wasnt a pensions expert, so he wasnt  in a 
position to effectively assess whether his financial circumstances meant it was appropriate 
for him to take additional risks with his OPS  which, aside  from his state pension, represented 
his only pension provision. This was one of GPFMs responsibilities which  I dont think  it 
fulfilled. It wasnt enough for GPFM  to rely on the fact that Mr J was happy with the level of 
cash and savings he held.  It needed  to establish the exact position regarding Mr Js finances 
at the outset and make   a reasonable assessment of the situation. And had it done so I think 
it wouldve  been clear  that, for several  reasons, Mr J transferring out of his OPS  wasnt  
essential or worthwhile.
Mr Js ATR and capacity for loss
GPFM determined  Mr Js ATR was medium  and satisfied itself he had an appropriate 
capacity for loss. Capacity  for loss was defined  as Mr Js ability to cope financially with any 
falls in the value of [his] pension, particularly if those falls could seriously  affect [his] standard 
of living. GPFM said that, due to the size of his transfer value  and small income 
requirement, Mr J had confirmed  he currently had sufficient capacity  for loss. 
Although Mr J may have  at the time thought he could  withstand any falls in the value of his 
pension, again  I dont think it was appropriate for GPFM to rely on this alone to reach a 
determination about Mr Js capacity for loss, particularly when it was meant to be 
considering this with regards  for Mr Js long-term position and not just how he felt about  
things in that moment. Independent of what Mr J perceived his capacity for loss to be, GPFM 
needed to carry  out its own evaluation. I cant see that it did this and as a result  I dont think  
its conclusion regarding  this was reached on a sound basis.
Mr J did have a large  transfer value.  However,  this also didnt automatically mean he had a 
sufficient capacity for loss. GPFM  needed  to bear in mind that other than his state pension, 
Mr Js OPS represented his sole retirement  provision.  Providing  a guaranteed income for the 
future with increases and a spouses  pension for Mrs J should he pass away,  Mr Js OPS  
was arguably one of his most valuable assets.  Given his age and the fact hed retired, it was 
clear Mr J was unlikely  to gain any additional pension provision in the future. So, despite Mr 
J having significant savings at the time  which again, I must repeat that GPFM failed to 
establish any details  of  I think its fair to say he was still fairly reliant on his transfer  value in 
retirement.  
Ref: DRN20698576GPFM recorded that Mr J only wanted  £18,000  a year in pension income. Compared to Mr 
Js annual income  of £58,000  at the time, this represented a substantial reduction. A 
current and in retirement monthly  expenditure table  was completed to demonstrate  Mr J 
didnt apparently need more than £1,200 a month to cover his outgoings, but I think this 
shouldve formed part of a wider discussion GPFM had with Mr J about  the relative modesty 
of his requirements and how realistic  these were. It shouldve also ascertained  why, given 
that he said he wanted to enjoy his retirement, Mr J didnt think  to make  any provision for 
additional expenditure. GPFM ought to have considered whether this was appropriate. 
GPFM had a responsibility  to encourage Mr J to think carefully about his financial  situation 
and what he envisaged  his retirement looking like and discuss how it could be affected  by a 
pension transfer  as well as other  scenarios.  I havent seen anything to suggest this 
happened to any great extent. Indeed,  it appears  GPFM accepted much of what Mr J said 
regarding his requirements at face value. And while  it was reasonable to take into account 
Mr Js initial  views on his retirement needs, GPFM really needed to probe  further.  After  all, it 
had been appointed to critically  evaluate what was in Mr Js best interests.  
Determining Mr Js capacity for loss largely based on his opinions as opposed to well-
reasoned conclusions, presented the risk that while GPFMs advice might meet Mr Js 
perceived requirements in that moment,  it might  not line up with what  he needed to put him 
in the best possible position in retirement. Accordingly,  GPFM  shouldve  proceeded with 
more care.
GPFM determined  Mr Js ATR was medium   6 on a scale of 1-10  based on his answers 
to a risk questionnaire. This was described  as someone whod prefer investments to 
fluctuate less and make more modest returns than losing money for higher returns  but be 
prepared to accept some fluctuations () to make higher returns than exclusively low risk 
investments. Whilst I agree some of the answers Mr J gave might suggest he was willing to 
take some  degree  of risk, I think other answers  shouldve led GPFM to question  whether the 
assessment of his risk profile  was correct. For example, I note that Mr J provided  the 
following responses to the statements below;
I would  be happy putting my money  in the stock market  Agree
I would  worry about losing money on the stock market  Agree
I would  consider investing  in a risky investment for the excitement of seeing  whether  
it goes up or down in value   Agree 
I would  get a thrill from making  risky investments with my money  - Disagree
I would  be happy to accept large  short-term falls in the value of my investments to 
maximise my potential longer-term returns  Agree  
I expect high investment growth  and I am willing to accept  the consequent possibility 
of large losses  Disagree 
Some of Mr Js answers were inconsistent and of the eighteen statements he was asked to 
respond to, Mr J answered Neither Agree nor Disagree to a third.  GPFM shouldve  clarified  
these inconsistencies  with Mr J but I cant see that it did, this is despite its risk report  
emphasising the importance of doing  so on the questionnaire results:  All risk profiling tools 
have limitations. This step is important because it allows  [the] adviser to challenge [the 
clients] views, validate [the] results  and resolve potential conflicts (). As the report said, 
the two most important outcomes of the assessment were to establish Mr Js true ATR 
and actual capacity for loss. I dont  think GPFM took sufficient steps  to make sure it did 
either of these things.
Ref: DRN20698577A willingness to accept a degree of risk isnt the only factor  to consider in providing  suitable  
advice. GPFM needed to take into account  other factors  such  as Mr Js specific 
circumstances, including  his investment  knowledge  and experience. There  was no evidence  
of Mr J having any other pensions or investment experience. He also described himself as 
someone with little pension knowledge.  And as someone who held the overwhelming  
majority of his retirement  income  in one final salary OPS, it seems to me that objectively Mr 
J would  more accurately  have been  described  as having a low or moderately cautious  ATR 
at most. 
Overall, I dont  think Mr J had the experience, knowledge or appetite  for risk to assess  or 
fully appreciate what the transfer of his OPS presented. And I dont think  he wouldve agreed  
to it if hed sufficiently  understood it. Although Im mindful of Mr Js recorded objectives,  
GPFM was ultimately the pensions expert and Mr J was understandably reliant on its advice 
 part of which involved GPFM objectively assessing the suitability of the proposed  transfer. 
Im not satisfied GPFM did this. And in my view, transferring  at a time when Mr J shouldve 
been reducing  not increasing  the risk he was taking,  presented  a level of risk that was 
unnecessary.
Mr Js objectives  
GPFM has said Mr J was keen to transfer; that he approached it with very clear 
objectives and plainly articulated the rationale for what  he wanted to achieve regarding his 
retirement provision.  It says the recommended transfer met Mr Js objectives and in view of 
this and his circumstances, its advice was suitable.
Its evident Mr J had some initial thoughts on what he wanted in retirement and that he 
provided GPFM with some  reasons  for this. However, while mindful  of what  Mr Js recorded 
objectives were, facilitating the transfer  for the sole purpose of meeting these didnt make  
GPFMs advice  suitable. Its role wasnt to simply justify and make  a transfer happen based 
on Mr Js objectives. As Ive said, GPFMs  starting point had to be that a transfer  wouldnt 
usually be suitable,  unless it could be clearly demonstrated to be in Mr Js best interests.  I 
dont think GPFMs  advice met this test. And I dont agree that Mr Js objectives and 
intentions were so fixed  or compelling that transferring out of his OPS  was an inevitable 
course of action Mr J wouldve always taken, irrespective of the advice GPFM gave.
GPFMs notes  first recorded that Mr Js intention was to take his SP1 benefits direct  from his 
OPS and use this and his state pension to provide his retirement income. He said he wanted 
to take his SP1 benefits this way so he could have certainty  of income  throughout the rest of 
his life. He wished to have the flexibility to do what  he liked with his larger  SP2 benefits. Mr 
J said he didnt want or need the level of income or benefits he could secure by taking his 
SP2 benefits from the scheme. While this indicates Mr J was open to the possibility  of 
transferring, I think its also evident  that he recognised and valued the security provided  by 
the guaranteed income he could  retain  by remaining in his OPS. 
Following his first discussion with GPFM, Mr J accepted a redundancy package and retired.  
GPFM later had a telephone call with Mr J, notes of which  said Mr J had changed his mind 
about how he thought hed take his benefits and wanted GPFM to advise him on potentially  
consolidating SP1 and SP2 under a new arrangement. This marked  a significant shift in Mr 
Js position, but again it still didnt  alter GPFMs  responsibility to provide Mr J with suitable 
advice. Mr J was evidently still open  to suggestion  about what  to do. So GPFMs duty was to 
carefully consider  and evaluate his objectives and reasons for wanting to transfer  and 
explore and inform  Mr J of all his options and the various consequences  of these so he could 
Ref: DRN20698578make an informed decision about the advice  GPFM eventually provided him with. Im not 
satisfied GPFM fulfilled its duty in this regard. And I dont  believe it did all that was required 
to consider whether what Mr J said he wanted to achieve was commensurate with his overall 
long-term retirement needs  and what his ATR and capacity for loss shouldve been 
determined to be. 
Following several discussions and meetings, Mr Js objectives were  recorded as follows:
To have  his OPS  in his control  and away from his former employer
To consolidate SP1 and SP2 in a new arrangement
To retire with a monthly income  of £1,500 from all his pension  sources  (i.e. OPS and 
state pension)
To ensure as much  of his pension benefits  were  passed onto his wife and children 
when he died
To maximise flexibility  
Ive thought carefully about what GPFM identified  as the main reasons for its 
recommendation Mr J transfer  out of his OPS.  Having done so, Im not persuaded the advice 
GPFM gave  was suitable. For simplicity, Ill deal with each  of the reasons GPFM  gave for its 
recommendation in turn.
Control and consolidation
GPFM recorded that wanting to completely transfer  out of his OPS was an emotional issue 
for Mr J. It said that since retiring, Mr J wanted to move his pension fund away  from his 
former employer and into his own control. In its submissions to this service GPFM has 
referred to Mr J having been bitter  about how his redundancy package had been handled by 
his employer, saying  this contributed to his feelings about transferring. Ive seen text 
messages between GPFM and Mr J from the time and these  show  that while  Mr J may first 
have been disappointed with the redundancy package initially  offered, he managed to 
secure the package  he wanted within two days of discussions and considered this good 
news. So, although  Mr J may have briefly  been unhappy with his employer, Im not satisfied 
this was a plausible reason for transferring, such that he needed  to take additional  
investment risks. And as for wanting  more control , Mr J had minimal investment knowledge 
and experience. So, I think it shouldve been evident  to GPFM that while Mr J might desire 
more control, he was unlikely to be  let alone remain  capable of managing his 
investments himself into old age.
Theres nothing to indicate GPFM discussed  this emotional issue with Mr J in any detail 
and I think it shouldve. Although I can appreciate why Mr J might  have been attracted to the 
thought of severing all ties with his employer following initial challenges securing his 
redundancy payment, I dont think this could  be considered a reasonable justification for 
transferring. In the circumstances I think GPFM had a responsibility to enquire further about 
what Mr J specifically meant when he said he wanted his pension in his own control  and 
what he thought  might happen if he didnt  transfer to secure such control. Without such  
discussions, I dont  think GPFM could determine  that transferring and consolidating SP1 and 
SP2 under  a new arrangement for control was in Mr Js best interests and worth foregoing 
the significant benefits and guarantees he had under his OPS; running  the risk of potentially  
Ref: DRN20698579ending up with a lower pension income in retirement. However even if such a discussion had 
taken place, Im not persuaded  GPFM  couldve reasonably reached the conclusion the 
transfer was in Mr Js best interests  on this basis.
Mr Js income  requirements
One of the reasons provided for Mr J transferring was that he said he didnt want or need 
the level of income  and spouses pension his OPS  could  provide. GPFMs  notes indicate  Mr 
J felt that as his OPS  exceeded his requirements  and he had considerable savings 
elsewhere, using  his transfer value for other reasons seemed like the right thing to do.
While I accept that Mr Js OPS apparently  providing  more income than he felt he needed 
may have  given Mr J pause for thought about what his options beyond taking benefits  direct 
from his OPS were, I think GPFM still needed to ensure careful  consideration was given to 
whether the alleged opportunities presented  by transferring made giving up the security and 
guarantees of his OPS were worthwhile. For example, it may arguably have been more 
prudent for Mr J to take the extra income from his OPS and pay the tax on it, than risk a 
transfer that could  result  in him getting  less income  than he needed if the proposed  
investments didnt perform. I cant see that GPFM  explored and discussed this with Mr J. 
And as GPFM  hadnt  established details of Mr Js savings or sufficiently evaluated his 
income requirements, I dont think it was in a position to conclude that transferring because  
Mr Js OPS far exceeded his income needs  was a reasonable justification for transferring.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Js modest income requirements and his OPS providing  
income over and above what  he thought  he needed presented a real problem for Mr J, such  
that transferring  could  be determined to be the most  suitable and logical  option.  And if it was 
a real concern, I think GPFM needed to explore  this further with Mr J. 
Death Benefits 
Regarding death benefits  GPFM recorded that Mr J wanted to leave as much  of [his] 
pension fund in tact [sic] to pass onto his wife and then his children.  This was described as 
his main objective. Its understandable that Mr J would want  to ensure his wife was 
provided for in the event of his death.  Its also reasonable to expect that he wanted  his 
children to benefit too. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think GPFM  has provided 
credible evidence which demonstrates that transferring for this reason was worthwhile.
GPFM did set out the death benefit  options available under Mr Js OPS compared  to an 
alternative defined  contribution  (DC)  arrangement, however I dont  think  it went far enough.  It 
needed to do more than just provide Mr J with information regarding death benefits;  it 
needed to establish what Mr Js specific needs  in this regard were and ensure the 
information it provided was comprehensive,  balanced and understandable given Mr Js 
limited knowledge  and experience. 
Im also not satisfied that all of the information GPFM provided to Mr J regarding  death 
benefits was accurate.  For example,  it set out figures for what Mrs J would receive  as a 
spouses pension  if Mr J died after age 65, but I cant see that it established or took into 
account Mr Js wifes  age given the bearing this could have on the specific level of spouses 
pension Mrs J could secure  to under Mr Js OPS. As I understand it, Mrs J is 11 years  
younger than Mr J. Ordinarily  under  Mr Js OPS a spouse would receive 50% of the payable  
pension, however scheme information  GPFM was provided with stated that if a spouse was 
more than ten years younger than a member,  a reduction to the spouses pension  would be 
Ref: DRN206985710applied. I cant see that this was highlighted to Mr J anywhere and I think  it shouldve  been to 
ensure he was in possession  of all the relevant facts when considering GPFMs advice to 
transfer. 
Saying he wanted  to leave as much of his pension fund to his wife and children in the event 
of his death wasnt in my view a fully articulated objective. In the circumstances GPFM ought 
to have discussed with Mr J in detail what,  in real terms, his position on death  benefits was 
and specifically how he wanted to provide for his wife and children in this respect  for 
example, whether he wanted to leave  his wife a lump sum benefit as opposed to a 
guaranteed ongoing  spouse pension and why, as well as and how much  of safety net his 
wife and/or children  required  if things  went  wrong.  
GPFM didnt  identify the level of retirement income  Mr J and/or Mrs J thought Mrs J would 
need in the event Mr J passed away; explore whether the spouse pension Mrs J could 
secure under Mr Js OPS  would be sufficient or if transferring to improve on this was 
necessary or realistically achievable given  Mr Js ATR and capacity for loss. I also think  it 
was remiss of GPFM not to establish what,  if any pension  provision  Mrs J had of her own 
and whether she, like Mr J, would largely be reliant  on Mr Js OPS  in retirement. GPFM also 
didnt establish  if Mrs J was working at the time. In my view information  of this nature  was 
critical to GPFM evaluating whether taking on additional risks by transferring was worthwhile 
and in Mr Js best interests  and later,  those  of his wife and children. Without  this I dont think 
GPFM could  reach a reasonable conclusion about  whether transferring to alter or improve  
on death benefits was worth  Mr J losing his OPS guarantees.
Although I can appreciate  Mr J wanting  to pass on as much  money  as possible to his wife 
and children at death, Im conscious that the main  purpose for a pension is to provide an 
income in retirement.  Other considerations, like death benefits and inheritance  are 
secondary to that, particularly where, as here, there was nothing to suggest Mr or even Mrs 
J were in ill health, such that it wasnt expected  that Mr Js pension fund would need to 
support him or his wife for a long time.  Im also mindful that GPFM  recorded  that Mr Js 
children werent financially dependent on him. And as Ive already mentioned, had GPFM 
gathered sufficient information about Mr J and his wifes financial position at the outset, I 
think it wouldve identified that Mr J appeared to have  reasonable savings  and assets which 
couldve been passed onto his children/wife upon  his death if necessary, all while retaining 
the valuable guaranteed income hed have in life as well as spouse benefit in death. 
GPFMs final report said that based  on Mr Js objective of ensuring as much of his pension 
benefits were passed onto his family  when  he died, transferring was the right solution as this 
would maximise the options available to him. Although there  would be more flexibility with 
death benefits in a DC arrangement, the level of benefits wasnt  guaranteed  and didnt 
necessarily mean this would result  in as much  of Mr Js fund being passed  onto his family in 
the event of his death  this was dependent  on the impact of unpredictable investment 
performance, charges, longevity and the level of income Mr J withdrew.  On the other hand, 
the spouses pension under Mr Js OPS was guaranteed and didnt carry the risk of being 
exhausted by these factors. 
Flexibility 
GPFM has referred to flexibility as one of Mr Js priorities  and an advantage to him 
transferring out of his OPS to a PPP  especially so he could access  Flexi-Access 
Drawdown. Specifically, it has said Mr J wanted to be able to alter his pension income as he 
saw fit in the future and have the option of drawing  higher TFC at a later date to help his 
Ref: DRN206985711children if needed.  GPFM says these  factors were more important to Mr J than the higher  
level of guaranteed income offered by his OPS.  
Although I accept GPFMs fact find indicated Mr J wanted some  flexibility with his pension, 
Im not satisfied theres enough to demonstrate transferring for this reason was something 
GPFM sufficiently  explored with Mr J or that compelling reasons were provided  such  that it 
was reasonable  to conclude sacrificing the guarantees under his OPS was in his best 
interests. GPFM recorded that Mr J valued  the certainty of an income  throughout the rest of 
his life, but I cant see that it ever reconciled this with his flexibility  objective  and the lack of 
certainty this potentially brought through any discussion with Mr J. Especially not to such a 
degree that would  explain  why the latter was apparently a greater priority than the former.
Mr J originally told GPFM that he didnt expect his retirement expenditure to change  in the 
future, and if it did, he said he could  draw on his cash and savings as needed.  So, amending 
his income wasnt something Mr J seemed to anticipate hed need to do. Theres also 
nothing to suggest GPFM had a meaningful discussion  with Mr J regarding the sort of 
financial help he thought he might want to give his children  in the future  and whether this 
was likely to exceed  money he already held (in cash, savings and redundancy) or could 
secure in TFC and regular income from his OPS. Without this sort of information, its not 
clear to me how GPFM could conclude either that flexibility (and targeting higher returns) 
was Mr Js most pressing  concern or that transferring  was likely to address this. As Ive said 
Mr Js children werent financially dependent on him, so it seems to me that using his 
pension provision to help them financially in the future was, like the ability to alter his 
income, a nice to have  as opposed to an essential requirement that warranted transferring 
out of his OPS.  
GPFM has said Mr J was provided with a Retirement Options Booklet and that the contents 
were discussed with him. The 37-page  booklet  described as containing a substantial  
amount of technical  information, referred  to a number of factors, including the associated  
advantages and disadvantages  of Flexi-Access Drawdown, which  it said needed to be 
discussed and assessed with Mr J to ensure he was provided with a suitable 
recommendation. Provision was made within the booklet for GPFM  to have Mr J sign and 
confirm hed been made fully aware  of these things, but no such  confirmation was provided. 
I havent seen  any evidence which leads me to conclude the features of Flexi-Access 
Drawdown were discussed in any great detail with Mr J. And I note theres  no reference to 
the specifics of its suitability for Mr J in GPFMs  recommendation   GPFMs Summary and 
Retirement Planning documents both merely state  that Flexi-Access  Drawdown will provide  
the flexibility Mr J desires  and assist him in satisfying his objectives. No additional supporting 
reasoning for transferring  for this purpose  is provided. 
Notwithstanding the lack of information provided about the suitability of Flexi-Access  
Drawdown for Mr J, Im mindful of what GPFMs Retirement Options Booklet said about 
Flexi-Access Drawdown  and its relevance  given  what  GPFM knew or ought reasonably to 
have concluded  when considering Mr Js circumstances. The booklet  said Flexi-Access 
Drawdown would generally be suited  to the relatively sophisticated investor who [was] 
capable of fully understanding  the risks involved.  But given that GPFM determined  that Mr J 
was a medium risk investor whod  prefer investments to fluctuate  less and make more  
modest returns than losing money  for higher returns and bearing in mind that Mr J had no 
experience investment experience and limited investment knowledge,  I dont think it was 
logical for it to conclude  that Flexi-Access Drawdown was the most suitable option  for Mr J. 
And I dont  think he was in a position to fully understand or appreciate  the risks associated 
Ref: DRN206985712with it. Although the drawbacks and risks associated with Flexi-Access  Drawdown  were  
listed in the booklet, I dont  think this was enough in isolation. 
As Mr Js adviser, GPFM ought to have discussed and clearly set out the potential  
implications of Flexi-Access Drawdown for Mr J. Details of these discussions shouldve been  
recorded and at the very least summarised  in the final recommendation documents GPFM 
provided to Mr J. The absence of this meant that in my view,  Mr J wasnt placed in position 
to make an informed decision.  In some instances,  I think the information GPFM did provide 
to Mr J in its recommendation regarding why he should transfer for flexibility,  Flexi-Access  
Drawdown couldve caused confusion.  For example, GPFMs final advice document  said it 
was recommending Mr J transfer  to a Flexi-Access Drawdown arrangement with Royal 
London because  it would  provide access to a wide range of investment funds () tailored to 
generate the potential  for capital growth  in line with [Mr Js] risk profile. This bore little 
relation to what GPFM originally identified Mr J apparently wanted  as a result  of flexibility 
from transferring. And although Ive seen some  reference in GPFMs notes  to Mr J wanting  
to keep his fund as large as possible over the longer term, this again isnt something which 
appeared to be discussed  in any detail or which GPFM gathered specific  information to 
understand what this meant for Mr J. 
While Im conscious of GPFMs  record of Mr Js objectives, Im also mindful that retirement 
planning while it may have regard for an individuals overall preferences, its primary focus  
should be a consumers personal  circumstances  with a view to putting  them  in the best 
possible position at retirement, with the appropriate  income provision in place long-term. So, 
although I can accept  what  GPFM says Mr Js main priorities,  needs  and objectives  were, I 
think a greater level of concern  needed  to be given to Mr Js future long-term position. I dont 
think GPFMs recommendation  did this.
GPFM had a significant and overriding  responsibility  to challenge Mr Js objectives  and not 
accept them at face value. Overall, I dont think it sufficiently interrogated Mr Js objectives  or 
explained and recorded his options  in any great detail when it shouldve. Its role was to 
determine whether  Mr Js identified objectives  made  giving up the guaranteed benefits under 
his OPS worthwhile. And from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded they were.  So, Im not 
satisfied it was appropriate for these factors, which in my view werent  compelling 
justifications or significant enough incentives, to form the basis  for GPFMs  recommendation 
that Mr J transfer.
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
GPFMs advice  was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection  rates  to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers  weren't  required to refer to these rates  when 
giving advice on pension  transfers, I consider they provide  a useful indication of what  growth 
rates would have  been considered reasonably  achievable when the advice was given  in this 
case. 
The critical yields GPFMs TVAS  set out for Mr J indicated  the transfer might not be in his 
best interests or financially viable  the required investment returns were  incredibly high.  The 
Ref: DRN206985713critical yield required to match Mr Js OPS at his desired retirement age (65) was more than 
50% per annum. So even if the PPP he transferred to had achieved the highest maximum 
growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr J would receive a materially higher pension  as a result  
of transferring. To come  anywhere near to achieving this, he wouldve needed  to take 
investment risk which likely exceeded  his ATR. 
GPFM seemed to recognise this when  with reference to what  it had determined  Mr Js ATR 
to be, it said:
We believe  certain returns can only be achieved at certain risk levels  () As you will see 
() the Critical  Yields calculated () do not appear  to be achievable in view of your attitude  
to risk.
GPFM provided some reasons for why the critical yield was so high in Mr Js case, i.e. his 
proximity to retirement age and how expensive purchasing benefits like those payable under 
the OPS were on the open market. However, I dont think this altered the fact the critical 
yield was still very high. 
Although a transfer wont always be unsuitable even if the critical yields  are high, it does give 
an indication  of the degree  of risk involved in the transaction and whether the transfer  value 
represents good
value in return for the benefits being given up. So, I think it was important for the results of 
GPFMs TVAS  to be discussed  with Mr J further.
GPFM has said that based on Mr Js objectives, the critical yield figure was somewhat 
irrelevant. Although  this is at odds  with what it said about this in its Transfer  Summary 
Report, i.e. that the critical yield should have a significant bearing on any transfer decision , 
GPFM says the purpose of its advice wasnt to try to mirror or match Mr Js OPS  benefits as 
these werent deemed suitable for his requirements. 
I dont agree with GPFMs  position  here and think it tends to underplay  the importance of the 
critical yield. I also dont think it was reasonable for GPFM to conclude Mr Js OPS benefits  
werent suitable purely based on what he said his objectives were. There  needed  to be a 
realistic prospect of him being better  off as a result of transferring to make the advice to 
transfer worthwhile. And I dont think there  was persuasive evidence to show there was. 
Considering Mr Js situation and the level of growth  required  to ensure Mr J wasnt  financially 
worse off, I think  it was clear the transfer  for the purpose  of accessing Flexi-Access 
Drawdown, would represent a high risk transaction only suitable for an experienced investor 
with enough additional drivers for the transfer to mitigate the risks involved.  I dont think  
there were in Mr Js case. In my view the transfer  clearly wasnt in Mr Js best interests and 
represented a high-risk strategy Mr J shouldnt have been  advised to take.
In addition to the critical yield,  GPFM  did point to an alternative calculation it carried  out, 
showing how long it would  take to exhaust  Mr Js fund, assuming an annual income of 
£14,118 was taken. However,  the fact remained that this would still be dependent  on fund 
growth and subject to the impact of charges, so that income wasnt, unlike the OPS,  
guaranteed.
Mr J says GPFM never informed him of the risks associated with transferring. But notes of 
Mr Js discussions  with GPFM do include some, albeit brief,  references  to risks being 
covered. And the Retirement Options Booklet GPFM  says Mr J was provided with set out the 
Ref: DRN206985714common advantages  and disadvantages associated with Flexi-Access Drawdown and an 
OPS scheme. However, as previously mentioned, the space left for Mr J to confirm his 
receipt and understanding of this document was left blank. Nonetheless, I can see that 
GPFMs DB Transfer Summary also set out some of the risks associated with transferring as 
well as the benefits of remaining in an OPS  and Mr J did sign to confirm his receipt and 
understanding of this document.  GPFMs  final Retirement Planning  report  provided similar 
information.
On balance I think some of the risks associated with the recommended transfer  were  
disclosed to Mr J. But disclosure doesnt  automatically translate into suitability  and Im not 
satisfied GPFMs  risk warnings went far enough. In my view they were brief and general  at 
best when they shouldve  been extensive  and explicit given the significance  of the 
transaction GPFM was recommending. GPFM didnt adequately set out or explain the 
potential implications of the OPS  transfer  for Mr J specifically. And bearing in mind  Mr Js 
limited investment experience and knowledge  I think he relied  heavily on GPFM doing this to 
support his consideration of whether to transfer or not. GPFM couldnt assume Mr J would 
infer from the general risks outlined in its documentation that remaining in his OPS might be 
in his best interests. Especially not when  GPFM, who Mr J confirmed he was depending on 
for advice  and help, repeatedly said it was confident transferring was the most  suitable 
action for Mr J to take. 
GPFM didnt  set out why the risks of transferring were worthwhile and mitigated by the likely  
benefits of doing so; merely saying Mr Js stated objectives would be met by transferring 
wasnt sufficient. And it wasnt enough  to say Mr J should give due consideration to the 
risks associated with transferring. GPFM needed  to express a clear view on why despite the 
risks, transferring was in its expert  opinion the right thing for Mr J to do given his 
circumstances. 
On several occasions  GPFM referred to the complexity of the decision Mr J was making,  
saying that considering transferring wasnt  straightforward and that the different benefit  
structures and features  available under an OPS and a defined  contribution  plan needed to 
be considered carefully before any decision was made. I agree but I dont think  GPFMs 
advice reflected this level of consideration. Although  GPFM provided Mr J with information 
about transferring  as well as remaining  in his OPS, I dont believe it was as clear, 
comprehensive and balanced as it needed  to be.
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator  says a firm should only consider  a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence  that the transfer  is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think GPFM  met this test in this case. As Ive said, I 
dont agree that making the transfer recommendation on the basis  that it met Mr Js recorded 
objectives was enough. GFM needed to drill down into and evaluate  the drivers behind Mr 
Js objectives and alleged priorities. And without  doing this and clearly  setting  out various 
options and considerations as well as specific risks, I dont think  GPFM, let alone Mr J, was 
able to credibly establish whether there were reasonable justifications  for Mr J giving up 
guaranteed benefits and taking a gamble  with his main retirement provision  so close to 
retirement.
GPFM considers that, based on Mr Js objectives  at the time,  he wouldve always transferred 
his OPS irrespective  of the advice it provided. I disagree. I think it was clear from the outset 
that Mr J was seeking to rely on the information and advice he obtained from GPFM. And I 
think GPFMs failings  in appropriately  assessing  the suitability of the transaction it was 
recommending played  a pivotal role in Mr Js decision  to transfer. As Ive explained, the 
Ref: DRN206985715perceived benefits of doing so didnt justify the transfer at this time. In my view GPFM 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer to Mr J. And if it hadnt done so then I 
dont believe  its likely  that Mr J wouldve gone ahead with it. In the circumstances Im 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr J wouldve listened to suitable advice and 
followed the recommendation I think GPFM  should  have made, which  was not to transfer. In 
turn, I think that GPFM should compensate Mr J for any losses he may have suffered as a 
result of transferring  his OPS benefits because  of its advice.  
What GPFM  should  do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Gerald  Pepper Financial Management Limited  must  
therefore undertake  a redress  calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance  of the decision.
Gerald Pepper Financial  Management Limited  may wish to contact the Department for Work 
and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days  of the date Gerald 
Pepper Financial  Management Limited  receives  notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Gerald  Pepper  Financial Management Limited to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Ref: DRN206985716Trouble & upset 
Gerald Pepper Financial  Management Limited  should pay Mr J £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused  as a consequence of the unsuitable advice she received.  I think that a 
payment of £250  is fair to compensate him for that distress.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Gerald Pepper 
Financial Management  Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that Gerald  Pepper  Financial 
Management Limited should pay Mr J the amount produced by that calculation  up to the 
maximum of £150,000 plus any interest on the balance as set out above.  
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Gerald 
Pepper Financial  Management Limited  to pay Mr J any interest as set out above  on the 
sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Gerald  Pepper Financial Management Limited  pays Mr J the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
If Mr J accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Gerald Pepper Financial 
Management Limited. My recommendation  is not binding on Gerald Pepper Financial 
Management Limited.
Its unlikely Mr J can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr J may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Gerald Pepper  Financial Management Limited to calculate 
and pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2069857