K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. The policy was amended in 2006 to cover  further borrowing. The policy only covered 
Mr S. Mr and Mrs S say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that this PPI policy was taken out during a telephone call. Due to the time thats 
passed since the sale, a call recording isnt available. In situations like this, Ive to consider 
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened  based on the available evidence.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although I havent heard a copy of the call recording, Ive seen copies  of some of the 
documents sent to Mr and Mrs S following the phone call, including their mortgage 
application. 
On page 11 of the application, next to the question Do you want Mortgage  
Repayments protector?; Yes has been  typed. I think this is likely to have been 
typed following a discussion  between Mr and Mrs S and the adviser.  Ive also noted  
that on the mortgage offer document,  its been  typed You have selected a monthly  
benefit of £250.
A separate  direct debit  form for PPI has also been  signed by Mr and Mrs S. This 
again suggests that the PPI was presented  as separate to the mortgage as it was 
paid for by a separate direct debit payment. .
So, having  considered everything, I think - on balance, that Mr and Mrs S reasonably 
would have known  that PPI was optional, separate to, and not a condition  of their 
mortgage  before they agreed  to take it out. Given the time thats passed, I can 
understand why they may not now remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr S 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN24371682Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs S commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2437168