K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd failed to pay the surrender sum on an investment 
plan which  apparently was encashed in 1995.
background
Mr C originally enquired about  a pension policy he believed  had been set up by his former  
employer. Zurich said it had no records of it being  the provider of such  a policy,  either  under  
Mr Cs name  or of his employer. It said its only record  was of a savings plan Mr C took out in 
1992 and surrendered in 1995. It did not have an active  file about this plan given how long 
ago it had been closed.
It subsequently said it had a note on it system containing some  basic information. This 
showed that the plan was surrendered on 31 August 1995 and that a cheque for £871.28  
was issued on 5 September  1995. The cheque was then cancelled  on 7 September  1995 
and the payment was reissued by Telegraphic Transfer  (Foreign  Draft) on 26 October 1995. 
Foreign Draft does not signify that the payment  was (necessarily) made to a foreign account  
 merely that this is how a Telegraphic Transfer payment was recorded.
It also said it did not have  details of the account  into which  the money had been paid. While 
there was a reference to a particular high street  banks specific  branch this did not mean the 
money had necessarily been  paid into an account there.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint.
He said that businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely and this plan matured 
nearly 25 years ago so he couldnt  expect Zurich to have retained all the relevant files. To 
conclude that it should now pay the money he'd need to be pretty sure that it hadn't been 
paid out at the time  and there was not sufficient evidence to reach  such a conclusion.
He also felt it was likely that if Mr C had such a plan he would probably have been  aware  of 
having it at the time. And if no proceeds had been received, he would have expected him to 
query this at some point.  Further, if the proceeds hadn't  been paid out he would expect 
Zurich to still have  the full records.
Mr C did not agree, and said:
Zurich initially said it had no files at all then produced a partial  record alleging this 
proved itd made the pay-out. Surely itd either keep  all the files or none of them?
It also said it had no information  about where  the money was paid but then gave 
further partial information
He never  received  any paperwork about this investment
He still feels it may relate  to a different plan, the subject of his initial  complaint i.e. a 
pension policy taken  out by his former employer
Neither he nor his wife had any bank account in 1995 and hes never banked with the 
business Zurich  claims  it paid the money into
Ref: DRN26555412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
There is simply not enough persuasive evidence to fairly or safely conclude that Zurich failed 
to pay out this money.
Mr C says he has no recollection of taking out this plan and still doubts whether he did, 
believing Zurich has somehow wrongly recorded  a pension plan taken out by his former  
employer. I think it is highly unlikely  that such an error could have occurred. Zurichs records,  
although limited,  show  the amounts paid in to this plan, its value and surrender sum. None of 
these tally with a pension plan paid for by an employer, in my view.
Also, given these  events  took place nearly  25 years ago, I do not believe that any party   
complainant or business  necessarily has a perfect recollection of what occurred. A recent 
court judgement made  this point strongly. Mr C claims  he has no knowledge of taking out the 
plan yet I think the evidence strongly  indicates that he did. And its not therefore completely 
surprising if he doesnt recall the modest  pay-put from a plan only held for three years.
Further, I acknowledge that Mr C has said he and his wife didnt have a bank account at the 
time. I accept he has told me what he believes but memories over such a long period of time 
are unlikely to be entirely reliable. I cant ignore  the fact that the evidence indicates  regular  
payments were made  into the plan for three years and I think  these were more likely  than not 
to have been paid from a bank or similar  account.
I accept the evidence about  which bank/branch the money was paid into is unsatisfactory. 
But Zurich  is not required to hold information about  accounts or policies which  were  
surrendered more than six years  ago, so I cannot  fairly say it is in the wrong for not having a 
full, and checkable,  trail of where the money  was paid.  
I also dont share Mr Cs view that because it retains  some partial information this is 
suspicious. I have  no doubt Zurich will have gone through  many information storage updates 
over a quarter of a century  from paper files to various computerised systems  so this 
probably explains why it was able to access some  information about  this plan. It was 
certainly not required to retain all or any of the files from a policy surrendered  24 year ago.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2655541