K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr D (the complainants) are represented. Their representative says Blevins  Franks  
Financial Management  Limited (BF) gave them unsuitable investment advice in 2010 and 
neglected associated  tax implications. 
background 
The complainants  settled trusts in 1995, with BF as a trustee. Within the trusts they held 
Lombard Personal Portfolio Bonds (PPBs)   Mrs Ds was a Balanced Growth Portfolio and 
Mr Ds was a High Growth Portfolio. 
They were  both assessed as medium risk profile  investors in 2010 when BF reviewed their 
investments and recommended, to them, a switch  from the PPBs  to Lombard Private Client  
Portfolios (PCPs). Their  investment objective  of capital growth remained unchanged 
between 1995  and 2010. 
BFs recommendation  as expressed in its review  reports  was mainly based  on its view 
that the PCPs  offered more flexibility, greater  investment potential,  access  to a wider range 
of funds to improve  growth and a lower charging  structure, than the PPBs.
The complainants  representative says the PCPs mismatched their medium  risk profile (as of 
2010, with the mismatch  compounded in 2014  when they were assessed  as low to medium  
risk profile investors); that the PCPs were  not cheaper than the PPBs;  and that they did not 
necessarily give access to a wider range of funds. The following main points have been 
made:
The PCPs were  invested almost only in Equities,  which  did not make them  medium 
risk portfolios to match the complainants medium risk profiles.
The PPBs each had a total annual fee of 1.6% (for their lifetimes and inclusive of 
BFs fees). At best, the PCPs each had portfolio charges  of 0.7% per year,  BFs fees 
of 1% per year and an annual  fixed charge  of 0.1% per year  totalling 1.71%, a total 
higher than that for the PPBs. In addition, an initial commission charge  of 2.2% 
applied to the PCPs.
The PCPs performances do not support the notion of improved growth  based  on 
access to a wider range  of funds.
The representative also says that the initial 1995  investments were part of the complainants  
Inheritance Tax (IHT) planning at the time;  that IHT planning remained relevant at the point 
of the switches in 2010; that, prior to 2010,  UK IHT rules changed in 2006 and BF ought  to 
have advised  the complainants about mitigation of their trusts in this respect, but did not; and 
that this matter is not a part of the complaint  but it highlights BFs negligence.  
BFs position, in the main,  is as follows:
There is no potential loss to the complainants estate arising from the IHT related 
point made by the representative, so there is no basis  for compensation in this 
respect.
There was no initial charge (usually  1%) to invest in the PCPs; the annual  charge 
was no more than 1.25%  and it reduced  to 0.7%  after five years, and this included  all 
fees payable to BF; the PCPs were indeed cheaper  than the PPBs; and the 2.2% 
Ref: DRN27717452initial commission was not taken in addition to the fees at policy level,  but was a part 
of the establishment  charges.
It initially recommended funds for the PCPs spread  over five asset classes  (Bonds, 
Commodities, Equities, Real Assets, and Capital Guaranteed Funds)  in order to 
match the complainants medium risk profiles. In response, they said they preferred to 
omit bonds from the PCPs, so it amended its recommendation accordingly.
The PPBs had limited  fund choices. They lacked diversification in terms of asset  
classes (they were wholly invested in Equities) and the complainants  expressly  
agreed with its recommendation of the PCPs in this context.
The performance of the PCPs  should  be viewed in the context of the wider market  at 
the relevant time.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded that it should  be upheld.  
He was not persuaded by the representatives  IHT related point. The same applied to the 
representatives point  about the performance of the PCPs  he said performance,  alone, is 
not indicative of suitability. He also agreed with BFs response to the matter of charges. 
However, he took the view that the PCPs  were unsuitable for because they mismatched the 
complainants medium  risk profiles.  He considered that BF possibly revised its 
recommendation upon the complainants input about omitting  bonds,  but it ought  to have 
conducted an assessment  of whether  (or not) the revised recommendation matched their 
risk profiles. He concluded  that BF did not do that and that the revised recommendation did 
not match the complainants risk profiles.
In response:
The complainants  representative maintained the point about the PCPs  charges 
being higher than the PPBs and affirmed that the complainants  did not instruct  the 
omission of bonds.
BF disagreed with the benchmark proposed by the investigator for the calculation of 
redress. It considered that an alternative  and internal portfolio model  would have 
been suitable for the complainants and would be a more appropriate benchmark than 
what the investigator proposed. In addition, it argued that its internal asset allocation 
table made 70% exposure, within  a portfolio, to Equities suitable for a medium risk 
profile and the PCPs  had less of such exposure. It said this and the risk score 
allocated to its recommendation (which  also fell within the medium risk range) means 
the PCPs were suitable.
The investigator explained that the benchmark  he proposed  is not supposed to mirror a 
precisely suitable portfolio but is supposed  to indicate the sort of return that could have been 
achieved with a suitable portfolio. He also noted  that, overall, the PCPs had high risk 
components beyond Equities which were not particularly  balanced  by the minority  lower risk 
element of the portfolio.  The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.  c
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons he gave.
The complainants  representative has confirmed that the IHT issue  is not a complaint issue, 
so I do not address it. The argument  about  charges  and the costs  comparison between the 
Ref: DRN27717453PPBs and the PCPs has been  presented to support the complaint about unsuitability  of the 
PCPs. I am satisfied that the PCPs were unsuitable  because they were too risky for the 
complainants. I do not suggest that the argument about charges is irrelevant  it is not  
however, the complaint is being upheld (due to the risk mismatch  matter) and does not 
require an additional  reason to be upheld.
This service would not normally  consider  matters  of performance in isolation and I have not 
seen grounds in this complaint to depart from this approach. Furthermore, I agree with the 
investigator that performance of an investment, alone, is not automatically indicative of its 
suitability for an investor at the outset.
There is no dispute that the complainants were  medium risk profile investors  in 2010. It could 
be argued that the PPBs had become unsuitable  for them  or at least for Mr D  at this time 
because they were wholly based  on Equities and Mr Ds PPB appears to have  been  
exposed to higher  risks than Mrs Ds. In this context, I do not consider that the 2010 review, 
in itself, was unreasonable. 
However, having conducted risk profile  assessments for the complainants and having 
concluded that they shared a medium risk profile as investors, it was incumbent upon  BF to 
ensure that its recommendation for reinvestment of the proceeds  (from  the surrendered 
PPBs) matched this profile. BF was the expert  in its relationship with the complainants. I 
understand the need for a firm to comply with its clients  instructions. I also note that the 
complainants dispute  instructing BF to omit bonds from the PCPs.  
In any case and even  if the alleged instruction was given, BF remained responsible  to warn 
 in the context  of advice   against  any unsuitability  that arose from that before complying 
it. If, as it asserts, BF considered its initial recommendation to be a match for the medium  
risk profile, it ought reasonably to have known that the revision that followed changed this.
There appears to be no evidence of such a warning  and I agree with the investigators 
observation that the revised composition of the recommended  PCPs, overall, titled them 
more towards a high risk portfolio  without sufficient lower risk components to achieve a  
balanced/medium risk profile outcome. Cash was limited to 3% of the portfolio; 17% was 
allocated to a short term cash fund but BFs report confirmed that this was a temporary 
measure before the allocation would thereafter  be used for investments; within  and beyond  
the Equities based components (which included exposure to small cap funds),  the portfolio 
was exposed to emerging markets; and the portfolio  was also exposed  to property funds.
Overall and on balance,  I conclude that the PCPs were unsuitable for the complainants 
because they were too risky for their medium risk investor profiles.
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put the complainants as close as I can to the 
position they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice by BF. I 
take the view that, but for BFs recommendation, they would have behaved differently. It is 
not possible to say precisely what  they would have done differently but I am satisfied  that 
what I have set out below is fair given their investor  risk profiles. 
I have considered BFs point in this respect and with regards to the benchmark to be used 
for redress. There is not sufficient evidence  to conclude that the alternative  and internal 
portfolio model  it proposes is definitely  or probably  what the complainants  would  have 
Ref: DRN27717454invested in  as opposed to the PCP model  they invested in. After all, it is BFs argument  
that the complainants rejected its initial recommendation   leading to its revised 
recommendation  so BF cannot reasonably be sure that the alternative portfolio would have 
been the suitably invested portfolio. 
The benchmark used  below follows this services approach  towards redress  for investors 
with a medium or balanced  risk profile and I do not consider I have seen anything in this 
case to warrant departure  from that approach.
what must  BF do?
To compensate the complainants fairly,  BF must:
Compare the performance of the investment stated below with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the complainants the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no 
compensation for financial loss is payable.
Pay interest if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Provide the complainants with the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Mrs and Mr 
Ds 
Lombard 
Private 
Client 
PortfoliosStill 
existsThe FTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income Total Return 
Index  (prior  to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income  Total Return Index)Date of 
investmentDate  of 
settlementNot applicable  
(because the 
calculation  end 
date is the 
date of 
settlement)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified  indices representing different asset 
classes, mainly  UK Equities and Government  Bonds.  It would be a fair measure for an 
investor(s) who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. I consider that the 
complainants medium  risk investor  profile  is broadly matched  by this benchmark  and that it 
broadly reflects  the sort of return they could have obtained from investments suited to their 
profile.
Ref: DRN27717455my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. I order Blevins Franks 
Financial Management  Limited to perform redress to them  as detailed above  and to provide 
them with the calculation of redress in a clear and simple format.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before  14 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2771745