K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Revolut Limiteds cryptocurrency exchange service did not provide 
transparent information about exchange rates/fees. He says the fees he incurred in the 
exchange transactions within his Revolut account,  in 2018, were unreasonable.  He seeks  a 
refund in this respect. Revolut disputes  the complaint.
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he noted that information  about transaction  fees was provided  in 
Revoluts website, including an explanation  about how the fees were calculated;  that 
information about fees and pricing was also available in the terms for the account; and that 
Revolut should  not have  to refund Mr Hs transaction  fees.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. He said:
Revoluts information did not advise  that fees may fluctuate  at times when the exchange 
is at its busiest  or quietest.
Information about how crypto to crypto exchange  fees convert back into FIAT currency 
was not transparent.
His last trade with Bitcoin Cash followed the wrong ticker/price of Bitcoin ABC.  
During the time of his transactions exchanges for purchasing Bitcoin Cash  were frozen  
unknown to him and most investors at the time.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is looking into mass market 
manipulation by multiple crypto exchanges, artificially moving  prices  in order to earn 
trading fees.
The investigator did not alter his view. He considered that the matter of fluctuating fees was 
a factor  related to the nature of the product; that the matter of how crypto fees were  
converted back into currency was sufficiently addressed in the terms for the account; that 
Revolut cannot  be held responsible for the exchanges having been frozen; and that there  
are currently  no findings  against Revolut with regards to Mr Hs reference to an investigation 
of mass market manipulation.
Despite this outcome,  Mr H maintained his complaint and his claim for a refund. The matter  
was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I note that Mr H submitted, to this service, information and documents in support of his core 
complaint issue and also in support of secondary matters he raised about practices and 
alleged malpractices in the crypto exchange market.  Nevertheless, the complaint issue,  the 
investigators findings and Mr Hs reasons for disagreeing  with those findings  as 
summarised above  are the core matters to consider and determine.
Ref: DRN25545562Revoluts general  terms for the account   as of 2018   suggest that they would have been 
agreed by Mr H before his account could have  been opened. The terms describe the 
purpose of the account as being to hold and manage electronic money  (EM). Under the 
section titled Exchanging Electronic Money the terms  explain that this function  takes  place 
when account  holders  enter their exchange requests into the Electronic Money Exchange 
and that prior to sending such requests account  holders  will be informed of the amount of EM 
to be used to purchase the amount of EM they require and the exchange rate to be used.
The terms referred account holders to its Fees and Pricing  Section. This section provided 
reasonably detailed information  about  subscription fees, fees for specific services (most of 
which were free), transaction  charges  and exchange  rates. The terms also say that other 
transactional fees are shown on the platform prior to an account  holder accepting such fees 
and completing  the relevant transaction.
Revoluts terms for a personal  account refer account  holders to an FAQ  section in order  to 
understand how the account works. The cryptocurrency subsection(s)  within  this addresses  
a variety of subjects and I consider it reasonable for Mr H to have familiarised himself with 
information about the subjects relevant to the cryptocurrency activities he intended to 
conduct. The type of exchange  used by Revolut and the calculation  of the rates used  for 
cryptocurrency exchanges would have  been two such subjects.
In relation to the former  that is, type of exchange   the FAQ section refers to Bitstamp  a 
third party cryptocurrency exchange  and says it  streams  prices from Bitstamp and 
calculate a Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) after taking into account other factors  
such as market depth and volatility.  With regards to the latter   that is, calculation  of rates  
the FAQ repeats  its reference to VWAP and to market depth and volatility. It also says:
We then apply a 1.5% markup on our derived rate, which is the rate you receive in the 
app  Please note that 1.5%  is not the buy/sell spread. The price  you pay is locked 
in at the time of the exchange settlement .
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded by Mr Hs assertion that Revoluts 
cryptocurrency exchange related rates/fees were not transparent. The general terms 
provided the Fees and Pricing Section and the website  gave  reasonably prominent notice to 
account holders  directing them to use the FAQ section to understand how their accounts 
work. The FAQ section then provided  more details. With Mr Hs cryptocurrency trading 
purpose, he would  have  been informed by the FAQ contents relevant to that purpose  and, as 
I have noted above, information  about rates and fees was available in that context.
As a part of his wider  submissions, Mr H queried Revoluts management of a cryptocurrency 
hard fork event(s) that affected  a transaction(s)  of his. The cryptocurrency subsection  of the 
FAQ section addressed this subject  too and confirmed Revoluts discretion to react  to such  
events on a case by case basis.  The FAQ section also has subsections  about converting 
from and to cryptocurrencies, which would have addressed  Mr Hs point about how crypto  to 
crypto exchange fees converted back into FIAT money.
Mr Hs point about fluctuating rates/fees appears  to be met by Revoluts use of prices from a 
third party exchange.  As the investigator suggested,  fluctuations  would have been within the 
expected nature of a currency (or cryptocurrency) exchange  and of the prices coming from 
such an exchange. The fact that the exchange belonged to a third party supports the 
investigators conclusion  that Revolut cannot  reasonably be held responsible  for Mr Hs 
assertion about  a frozen exchange. If, in this respect, his assertion relates to another 
exchange(s) I have  not seen evidence that Revolut controlled or administered  an exchange 
so the same conclusion would  apply.
Ref: DRN25545563I have not seen enough evidence to show a wrongdoing by Revolut with regards  to Mr Hs 
reference to an inaccurate  Bitcoin ABC ticker/price  or that it is a complaint that was put to 
and addressed by Revolut  as part of the rates/fees issue  and I have  seen no evidence of 
any wrongdoing on its part with regards to the alleged market  manipulation he mentioned.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2554556