K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  have  overcharged him for his 
mortgage from inception  to redemption. He said the interest rate had been unfairly increased 
and the arrears on his mortgage were incorrect.
Mr M says he wants compensation for unfairly  charged arrears fees and threatening letters  
by Halifax when it knew his situation, and it hasnt  responded  to all of his letters. Mr M would 
like Halifax  to refund all his mortgage payments, especially since 2001, as he says it 
breached the terms and conditions of his mortgage  and it was mis-sold.
background
Mr M took out a mortgage with a previous lender in 1977 and this was later taken over by 
Halifax. He said throughout the mortgage  hes been overcharged and consequently much 
less of the capital was repaid than ought to have  been and hes sent in various calculations 
in support of this point. He said the overcharges relate to hidden  house insurance, extra 
charges, unfair interest rate hikes and Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI). 
Mr M has raised complaints about PPI, and what  hes described  as an unauthorised  
extension to his mortgage contract in 1990,  and these  complaints  have  been  handled 
separately. Halifax has sent Mr M all of the information it holds about his mortgage account 
and this includes details  of transactions and interest  rate changes. It said his account 
accurately reflected his payments and the arrears he was in at times.
Mr M said his original  mortgage offer from 1977  doesnt state  there was to be a charge for 
home insurance in his monthly instalment. Halifax said that his home  insurance  premiums 
were linked to his mortgage from 1992  and before that no interest  was added for unpaid  
premiums. It said that no separate payment provision was made for Mr Ms home insurance 
and so he is correct  to say this is a factor in his underpaying his mortgage  since that time. 
In 2015 Halifax  calculated interest  on all of Mr Ms insurance premiums since  1992 at 8% 
and credited his mortgage account by over £7,000, including  a refund of some  arrears 
charges. This redeemed  Mr Ms mortgage  with an overpayment for his benefit of nearly 
£3,000. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he couldnt say if 
the mortgage had been mis-sold, but he was satisfied that Mr Ms payments had reduced the 
mortgage correctly  and that the final redemption figure was correct.
Mr M disagreed saying his complaint hadnt  been properly reviewed and we should make  a 
finding about the mis-sale of his mortgage.  He said hed provided some  calculations of the 
overpayment of his mortgage and these  had been  ignored. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr M said hed like to comment further  on 
his complaint, but I have spoken  to him before and written to him and seen his many letters 
about the issues hes raised,  and I am able to reach  a decision without further 
communication.
Ref: DRN27530582Mr M requested details of all payments made towards his mortgage.  Halifax provided him 
with all of the mortgage  transactions it still held on its system. From the transactions and 
Halifaxs description it would appear that PPI and home insurance distorted Mr Ms mortgage  
debt. Mr Ms PPI complaint has been  dealt with separately.  
Mr M wants a refund  of all his mortgage  payments. I cant  say whether  or not his mortgage 
was mis-sold in 1977 as we dont have  enough  information about that and we dont have 
access to his entire account history.  However,  from what I have seen I dont agree that 
Halifax has acted in breach of his mortgage  contract and I think  its done  its best to address 
Mr Ms concerns and explain his mortgage payments even though these go back about 40 
years. It has shown that it notified Mr M about  interest rate changes that affected him and I 
havent seen anything to indicate that interest  has been applied  unfairly to Mr Ms mortgage.
When I spoke to Mr M he said his claim concerned 15 years of mis-sold  home  insurance 
from 1977 to 1992.  I explained that Halifax only holds records back to 1992 and has no 
record of any payment arrangements for his home  insurance, but that we knew  that from 
1977 until 2002 the premiums were paid without incurring additional interest. I said this 
meant there  was no detriment suffered before  1992.
I have written to Mr M previously to explain  how his insurance was linked to his mortgage  
and the effect  of this on his mortgage. Assuming that Mr M was unaware that his home 
insurance premiums were being added to his mortgage, the detriment to him from 1992 
would have been the interest incurred by his non-payment. This would have been at the 
mortgage rate of interest,  but Halifax has refunded this at 8% which is considerably  more  
than what was added to the mortgage.  I have taken into consideration that Mr M had the 
benefit of the home insurance  for this period (1992  2008) and I think Halifaxs  refund of 
interest and charges is very fair.
From the mortgage account statements and transactions that Ive seen,  I think Halifax 
correctly credited Mr Ms payments to his mortgage and he was provided with an accurate 
redemption figure.
I was sorry to see that Mr M suffered trauma from the threats  of repossession  that he says 
he received from Halifax  concerning mortgage arrears, when in fact he said no arrears  
existed. But I dont  think it would  be fair to require  Halifax to pay Mr M compensation for this 
as there  were arrears  on his mortgage account due to his underpayment of the amount 
required to keep it on track. Im pleased  this was wiped out by Halifaxs  refund  of interest on 
his home  insurance,  but I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax  to pursue the arrears  at 
the time.
I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties  hes had with understanding his mortgage,  but Ive 
looked into the issues that hes raised and Ive concluded that they have  been  properly 
resolved by Halifax and that he has been treated fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Ref: DRN27530583Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2753058