K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans,  lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr B took out seven  loans with Satsuma between  February 2015  and May 2018. The loans  
were repayable over periods ranging  from 30 weeks to 12 months. Mr B repaid loans one to 
six but hasnt  repaid  loan seven. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing from Satsuma is as follows:
date £ amount borrowed date repaid
121 February 2015 400 29 October 2015
220 July 2015 600 29 October 2015
32 November 2015 700 5 November 2016
420 December 2016 1,000 22 December 2017
522 February 2017 310 24 January 2018
616 December 2017 1,300 31 January 2018
727 May 2018 2,000
Mr B says that Satsuma  failed to identify that he had become dependent on the loans and 
that further borrowing made his position worse.  He wants a refund  of interest, with interest 
and adverse information removed from his credit file.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Bs complaint. He said that Satsuma shouldnt have 
given Mr B loans four to seven and he set out what he thought Satsuma  should  do to put 
matters right. 
Satsuma didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said:
The adjudicator only considered the number of loans but sustained or sequential 
borrowing isnt necessarily irresponsible  or conclusive proof that a customer  is 
persistently reliant on borrowing.
It considers sustainability at the point of its initial income and expenditure checks.  
Mr B repaid all loans except for loan seven, which suggests that he had a change in 
circumstances.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN21372632Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I dont think that Satsuma was at fault in giving Mr B loans one, two and three.  Given  the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Bs circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma  
to ask Mr B for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  At 
that stage, there wasnt anything in the information  Mr B provided  or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate for it to start 
verifying what Mr B said about his financial position.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending  history with Satsuma, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN21372633Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
four. I say this because  by loan four, Mr Bs overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. Mr B had taken four loans in 22 months. 
Up to loan four, the amounts Mr B borrowed increased such that loan four was for 
substantially more than Mr B had first borrowed.  
Mr B wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma.  Loan  seven was 
taken out over three years after Mr Bs first loan with Satsuma and it was for a considerably 
larger amount. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to 
Satsuma over an extended period.
In my view, from loan four, the pattern  of lending itself shows  that the loans from here were 
unsustainable. So, I dont  think that Satsuma should have given Mr B loans four to seven.  
I think that Mr B lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. The sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the Mr Bs complaint about loans four to seven and Satsuma should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
I now require Satsuma  to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans four to seven and write off any
outstanding interest  and charges on loan seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loan seven 
and pay Mr B the balance,  if any. If there remains an outstanding balance owed 
to Satsuma in relation  to loan seven, Satsuma should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr B;
the number  of loans  taken from loan four onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans four to six should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file. Entries about  loan seven  should  be 
removed once the capital owing on that loan  has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN21372634my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint in part. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2137263