K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited didnt repair his car properly after he
claimed on his car insurance policy. He also complained the repairs  took too long to
complete.
background
Mr Cs car was hit from behind, so he claimed  on his policy.  At the time of the accident
Mr Cs car was only a few months old. Admiral reviewed the claim and repaired  the car. 
When he collected it, he said one of the bumpers  wasnt  aligned properly so this needed to 
be fixed.
After Mr C took collection of his car, he noticed  the parking sensors werent working,  so he
complained. Mr C took his car to a manufacturing garage, the manufacturing garage said
one of the sensors was faulty and the wiring loom  needed replacing. They provided Mr C
with a quote for around £370  to have them fixed. Mr C provided this to Admiral and asked
them to pay for the repairs as he said the damage must be because of the accident.
Admiral reviewed the report and said the manufacturing dealer said the sensor  was faulty
and therefore,  it wasnt accident related. However,  Admiral agreed the garage originally
hadnt repaired the car properly and that there had been delays in the repair.  It also agreed
to repay  Mr C the cost of getting the report. Because of this Admiral offered Mr C £222.50 to
resolve his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 March 2020 where I said:  Mr Cs 
policy says in the event his cars damaged in an accident Admiral  will pay for the
repairs or pay him a cash sum to replace the damaged car. Admiral  said its repaired Mr Cs
car, so Ive looked  into whether its done what it needed to under the policy.
Admirals engineer said the damage  to Mr Cs car was superficial and no damage was
caused to either the sensor loom  or parking sensors. Because  of this Admiral  doesnt think  it
should cover  them.  Admiral said if the parking  sensors werent  working correctly a warning
light would  show on the dashboard. Its also said as Mr C took around two weeks to report
an issue with the parking  sensors it doesnt think the damage  to them was accident related.
Ive considered Admirals  points, but Im not persuaded  by them.  Mr C said he reported the
issue with the sensors  as soon as he noticed  them  and said this was a day or two after he
got the car back. While  this is different to Admirals  records, I dont think  it makes a
difference. I say this because even if I accept Mr C reported the fault just over two weeks
later, Im satisfied this is still within a reasonable time.
Mr Cs said he didnt notice any warning lights on the dashboard and doesnt  think there is
one for the parking sensors.  Even  if there is a warning light,  Im not persuaded that by it not
showing means the parking sensors  were  working  correctly. This is because Mr C has been
to a manufacturing garage  whove identified the sensors as not working  properly. Im
therefore satisfied  there  is a fault with the sensors, and it was noticed soon after the
accident.
Ref: DRN29666742Admirals engineer has said the damage to Mr Cs car was superficial  and no damage was
caused to the sensors or wiring loom. But Im not persuaded this means they arent accident
related. I say this because  Mr Cs car was new at the time of the accident,  hes also said he
didnt have any issues before and Im persuaded by what hes said. Considering the
damaged sensor  and wiring loom is in the same location as the accident. Im satisfied that
on the balance  of probabilities the issue is accident related even if the impact was superficial
and no visible damage was noticed at the time.
Mr C has provided a repair cost of £371.52 to fix the fault. As Im satisfied  the fault is most
likely accident related Admiral should pay this amount to Mr C. If Mr C has already paid for
the repair Admiral should  also add 8% simple interest to this amount, from the date Mr C
paid it, to compensate  him for not having the money.
Given the length of time this has gone on for and that Mr C had issues  with the repair. Im
satisfied Admiral has caused him unnecessary  distress and inconvenience. For the issues
identified before I dont  think Admiral  needs  to do any more than it offered in its final
response. But I do think Admiral has caused additional unnecessary distress and
inconvenience which it should compensate Mr C for. I say this because  Mr C has had to
drive around  a new car which  hasnt been  repaired correctly. So, Im satisfied Admiral should
compensate him for this by paying an additional  £200 on top of what  it previously paid.
Mr C responded and accepted my provisional decision. Admiral  responded and didnt agree. 
It said that in the two weeks it took Mr C to report the fault his car could have suffered 
another impact  causing it. Admiral also said if there was a fault then a yellow  warning light 
would be displayed, and this is built into the cars parking system. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to depart 
from my provisional findings,  and Ill explain  why. 
Admirals said Mr Cs car could have suffered another impact in the weeks he took to raise 
the issue with them. While  this is a possibility, Im not satisfied  Admiral  has done  enough  to 
persuade me thats whats happened  here. I say this because when Mr C took his car to the 
manufacturing garage, they referred  to the issue initially as faulty.  If Mr Cs car had 
suffered another impact, I think its likely the manufacturing garage would have said so in its 
original report, rather  than referring  to the sensors  as faulty. Admiral also hasnt provided  
any evidence to support  that the cars been  involved in another impact. 
In response to the warning light I addressed that in my provisional findings above. Admiral  
also hasnt done  enough to persuade me that as no warning light was showing, it means    
Mr Cs parking sensors werent faulty. Im therefore satisfied its more likely the sensors were 
faulty because  of this claim and wont  be departing from my provisional findings.  
Ref: DRN29666743my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint and 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to:
pay Mr C £371.52 to repair the fault.  If Mr C has already  paid this, it should also add 
8% simple interest  to this amount from the date Mr C paid it until the date it makes  
payment;
pay Mr C £200 for the additional distress and inconvenience;
pay Mr C the £222.50  offered  in its final response, if not already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2966674