K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Uncle Buck  provided  to Mr E between July 2012 
and December 2013. Mr Es borrowing history  based  on what Uncle  Buck provided is as 
follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
repaymentRollovers
1 09/07/2012 20/07/2012 1 £300.00 £404.85 0
2 21/07/2013 20/12/2013 1 £150.00 £202.42 4
3 24/12/2013 28/02/2014 1 £300.00 £404.85 1
Mr E has said Uncle Buck  did not lend to him responsibly and did not complete the 
appropriate affordability checks. Mr E has also said Uncle Buck  did not provide  the 
appropriate debt counselling when he was having  trouble making  repayments.  Uncle  Buck 
disagreed and said it had carried out the appropriate  checks before providing  the loans. It 
has said it didnt need to refer Mr E to debt counselling and would only need to if a customer  
was in arrears of two repayments. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Es complaint in part and thought the fourth rollover on loan 2 and 
loan 3 should not have  been given. Uncle Buck disagreed - it said it didnt assume a 
customer was in financial difficulty just because a loan was rolled over. The complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN23106412the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Uncle Buck  says it is conjecture  and assumption that a rollover is a sign of financial 
difficulty. I accept that simply  rolling over a loan once  might not be a sign of on-going 
financial difficulty but loan 2 was rolled  over four times. Consequently, the loan lasted  five 
months when it was intended to last just one month.  The number of roll overs  suggests to 
me that Mr E was struggling  to repay  the loan. In my view,  it was more likely than not, this 
was a sign Mr E was experiencing financial difficulty. Good industry practice at the time 
pointed to three rollovers being  the maximum a borrower should be allowed. So, when Mr E 
asked for the fourth rollover, Uncle Buck should  have realised all of this and not agreed the 
fourth rollover on loan 2.
Loan 3 was taken out four days after loan 2 was finally  repaid and was for twice the amount. 
The fact that Mr E had struggled to repay loan 2 and now needed to borrow  again for a much 
larger amount should  have  concerned Uncle Buck and, as a responsible lender, I dont think 
it would  have agreed loan 3 either.
Loan 2 was rolled over four times.  Good  industry  practice at the time pointed  to three 
rollovers being the maximum a borrower  should be allowed.  When the fourth  rollover  was 
asked for, Uncle Buck  should have been  put on notice that Mr E may have been  
experiencing financial difficulty. And so I dont  think the fourth rollover should have been  
provided to Mr E. 
Ref: DRN23106413Loan 3 was taken out four days after loan 2 was finally  repaid and was for twice the amount. 
The fact that Mr E had struggled to repay loan 2 and now needed to borrow  again for a much 
larger amount should  have  concerned Uncle Buck and, as a responsible lender, I dont think 
it would  have agreed loan 3 either.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the fourth  rollover in loan 2 and loan 3 and Uncle Buck  
should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr E paid on the fourth rollover for loan 2 and loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the fourth rollover for loan 2 and loan 3 from 
Mr Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Es complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2310641