K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Valour Finance Limited  (trading as Savvy) gave her loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about two loans Savvy provided  to Miss B. 
Heres a table showing  loan details:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Monthly instalments
1 13/04/18 06/12/18 £500 12 x £83.33
2 06/12/18 Not repaid £900 15 x £120
Miss B complained that Savvy shouldve seen  that she was in financial difficulties and had 
multiple loans with high interest  lenders so it shouldnt have lent to her. Shes  now in a debt 
management plan as a result and she doesnt  feel that Savvy  has treated her very well or 
acknowledged how ill shes  been  as a result  of worrying  about her money problems. 
Our first adjudicator felt that it wasnt unfair  for Savvy to have provided loan 1. But he 
thought that by loan 2, Savvy had enough information to show  that it was unlikely Miss B 
wouldve been able to repay  this borrowing in a sustainable way. So our first adjudicator said 
Savvy shouldnt have  lent Miss B loan 2. 
Savvy disagreed  with our adjudicators view. Mainly  it said that it did all required checks  and 
it believed both loans  were issued in line with the regulations and guidance available  to 
regulated firms. It also said that before agreeing her applications, its underwriter had asked  
Miss B about any loans  that didn't show on her credit file and its lending  decision took all this 
information into account.
A second adjudicator looked  at the complaint again  and he felt that Miss Bs borrowing 
elsewhere wouldnt necessarily have given Savvy cause for concern as a lender. And 
overall, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Miss Bs circumstances at the 
time and her history  with the lender, our second  adjudicator didnt think Savvy  was wrong to 
provide either of these loans to Miss B.
Miss B disagreed with this view.  The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Savvy needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried  out proportionate  checks to make sure Miss B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable way. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN27384892But certain factors might  point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Savvy was required to establish whether Miss B could  sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
loan 1
Miss B planned to repay  this loan by way of twelve monthly repayments  of £83.33. So Ive 
considered whether this should  reasonably have prompted Savvy to look further  into her 
finances and check the information  she was providing in support of her loan application. 
I think its fair to take into account that this was Miss Bs first loan from Savvy  and shed 
explained she was living with family  and she had only limited responsibility for paying  the 
usual household expenses and bills. I can see also that she would be making  relatively low 
repayments compared to what shed told Savvy about her income and expenses  including  
what she was spending on other  short term lending. 
On the figures  shed  provided during discussions with Savvy (and Ive listened to the call 
recording when she arranged this loan) I think Savvy was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
information Miss B provided to make  an informed lending decision  and I dont think its 
decision to lend loan 1 was unfair or unreasonable in these particular circumstances. 
Ref: DRN27384893I can see from looking at her bank statements that Miss B hadnt  given Savvy  a full picture of 
her finances   when  she took out loan 1 she was actually borrowing from multiple other  short 
term lenders as well. But I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Savvy to ask Miss B 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan. And I dont  think there  was anything  to alert Savvy during the 
phone call that Miss B mightve been  having  money problems or facing serious difficulty  at 
that stage managing her spending.  So Im not upholding  Miss Bs complaint about  loan 1.
loan 2
But I think our first adjudicator was correct to uphold Miss Bs complaint about  loan 2. 
By then, Savvy shouldve realised that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending 
decision on the information Miss B was providing. 
I say this because:
Miss B had taken  out loan 2 the same day that shed repaid loan 1  in fact, shed 
used part of loan 2 to clear her first Savvy loan 
Loan 2 was for a significantly bigger amount  than loan 1
and it was arranged  over an even longer term  fifteen months  - possibly to keep 
down the costs of the monthly repayments 
as our first adjudicator said, when she asked for loan 2, the information Savvy 
gathered showed that Miss B was spending substantially on credit cards, and she 
wasnt keeping up with the payments on a £1500 loan shed taken out in February  
2018. Savvy  had obtained credit information that also showed  shed fallen behind  
with the repayments on another loan as well. 
So I think it would have  been proportionate  for Savvy to have taken steps independently to 
check the true state of Miss Bs finances.
If Savvy had looked  in depth  at Miss Bs finances it wouldve been able to see that she was 
facing serious problems managing her money.
It wouldve  seen that Miss B had been borrowing regularly from other  short term loan 
providers for some  time  and it looked like she had at least  three  other short  term high cost 
loans outstanding when she asked for loan 2 with Savvy. 
I think that Miss Bs borrowing history, her track  record of unmet repayments and the extent 
of her active debt with other payday  lenders when she asked Savvy  for loan 2 shouldve 
made Savvy realise that she was having money  problems. 
Bearing in mind Miss Bs declared income and expenditure, and the fact she was living  with 
family and had only limited responsibility for all the usual household expenses  and bills, 
I think it shouldve been apparent to Savvy that Miss B probably  wasnt asking it for a loan 
just to provide  a short term fix for her cash flow problems or to cover an unexpected  
expense.
Instead, to my mind  the information Savvy had available,  and what  it wouldve seen had it 
done proportionate checks, suggested that Miss B was reliant on taking out expensive credit. 
So it was unlikely that Miss B was going to be able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way.
Ref: DRN27384894And I think its fair to say this is borne out by the fact that Miss B hasnt been  able to repay 
this loan  as far as I am aware it is still outstanding. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  everything that Savvy has said, including 
its response to the first adjudicators view. I appreciate that it may still disagree with this 
outcome. But I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps to explain my reasons.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Miss B hasnt sent me anything further. 
Savvy disagrees with what  Ive said about upholding loan 2. In summary,  it mainly says that 
it:
conducted required checks  and followed  required  procedures,  and
reviewed Miss Bs repayment history on her first loan and it didnt reflect  anything  
adverse
none of the information provided by Miss B indicated  hardship or difficulties
Miss B confirmed she wasnt expecting any change of circumstances that would 
affect her repaying the loan
income verification  checks  confirmed  there  had been a regular payment of around 
£1300 made into Miss Bs bank account for at least 12 months
Miss B didnt have  any defaults,  judgments, payment arrangements or missed 
payments on her report
when Savvys underwriter asked about loans not showing on Miss Bs credit  file 
Miss B mentioned another loan and said it was for a famiily trip  which  Savvy says 
didnt indicate  financial hardship
someone having a credit history isnt a reason for not lending  to that person. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision. But Savvy  hasnt  provided  me with any new information that changes what  I think 
about this case.  So I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right  what Savvy should  do
If Savvy has sold the debt to a third party  it should buy this back so it can carry out these 
directions  or otherwise  tell the third party that it needs to carry out these steps  to put things  
right.
Ref: DRN27384895remove any outstanding interest and charges from loan 2 and treat any repayments 
made by Miss B for loan 2 as payments towards  the capital 
when Savvy works out what it owes Miss B, it can first apply this towards offsetting 
any outstanding  capital balance she owes on loan 2 (taking  into account any refund 
already paid or amount  previously written off) 
if there is a surplus, then it should return this to Miss B  and pay her 8% simple a 
year interest on this surplus  from the date her account wouldve been settled in full (if 
the payments  she made had been applied towards  the capital balance in the first 
place) to the date of settlement
in the event that there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind  Savvy  that 
it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable  repayment  
plan with Miss B
remove any negative information  recorded on Miss Bs credit  file in relation to loan 2 
once it is paid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest.  Savvy must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 2 and direct  Valour Finance Limited (trading as 
Savvy) to take the steps Ive set out above  to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2738489