K820x#14complaint
Ms H and Mr M complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them four payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in July 2019 explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments and evidence  they would like 
me to consider by 2 August 2019.  Neither  party has provided anything further for me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms H and Mr Ms case.
As neither party has provided anything further  for me to consider   in particular, Mr M has 
not provided any evidence of his medical  condition from the time of the sale  I see no 
reason to depart from the findings as set out in my provisional decision.  
It follows that I dont uphold Ms H and Mr Ms complaint for the same reasons as those set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms H and Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms H and Mr M complain  that Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold  them  four payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Ms H and Mr M took out a loan with Nationwide  in September 1999. They were sold PPI in connection 
with this loan. They then took out further top up loans, each time refinancing their existing loans  in 
Ref: DRN23251012October 2000, December 2000 and May 2002. As I understand  it the May 2002 loan was settled in 
2004. Ms H and Mr M were  sold PPI in connection with all of these  loans.
Although the loans were  in joint names, the policies  only covered Mr M. The policies were  designed to 
provide a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim  for unemployment and for the remaining term 
of the loan in the event of accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator thought that this complaint  should be upheld because Mr M told us he suffered from a 
pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale and the policy excluded claims for such 
conditions. Our adjudicator thought this hadnt been made clear to Mr M at the time of the sale.  
Nationwide didnt agree with our adjudicator as Mr M had initially ticked  a box on the questionnaires to 
say he wasnt suffering from such a condition at the time of the sale and no evidence had been 
provided to them which would  show  that he was suffering  from a medical condition at the time of the 
sale. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms H and Mr Ms case.
Having done so, I dont  currently intend to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered  whether Mr M was eligible under the policies. Given Mr Ms age, residence  
and employment, Im satisfied that he would  have been eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr M that the policies were optional and needed Mr Ms consent  
before they could be applied to the account. Ms H and Mr M say the policies were  added without their 
consent. Nationwide disagree. Ive thought carefully about what  both parties have said and looked to 
the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
In respect of the 1999 sale, Ive seen a copy of the application form. This provided Ms H and Mr M 
with two equally clear options to either take or refuse PPI. I can see that the option to take PPI has 
been selected  and the application form has been signed by Ms H and Mr M. Ive also seen a copy of 
the loan agreement. This sets out the cost of the policy  separately  to the loan repayments under the 
heading optional  credit insurance. Ive also seen copies of the loan agreements from the October 
2000 and May 2002 which again set out the cost of the PPI under the heading optional  credit 
insurance. Ms H and Mr M have both signed these  loan agreements.  I have no reason to the think 
that the PPI would have been presented  differently  in the December 2002 agreement. So based on 
what Ive seen, I think its more likely that the policies were presented as optional and only applied to 
the account because Ms H and Mr M chose to take them out.
Nationwide didnt advise  Ms H and Mr M to take PPI out. This means  they didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policies  were suitable for them.  However, they did have to give Ms H and Mr M clear  
enough information about the policies so that they could  decide  for themselves  whether or not to take 
PPI. I dont think Nationwide did provide Ms H and Mr M with all the information  as clearly as they 
should have. But this in itself doesnt  mean the policies were mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information  would have put them off taking  it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this because:
-Mr M has told us he wasnt  entitled  to sick pay from his employer at the time of the sales. And 
I cant see that he had any other cover in place specifically to cover the repayments on these  
Ref: DRN23251013loans. The policies would have paid out for the remaining term of the loans if Mr M was off 
work sick and would also have  covered the repayments for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
Even if Mr M did have  some  employee sick pay the policies would have paid out in addition to 
this in any event.
-At present I dont have sufficient evidence  to conclude that Mr M was affected  by the main 
exclusions and/or restrictions in the policy such that he couldnt  have made  a successful claim 
under the policy if the need arose. I appreciate that Mr M has told us about a serious medical  
condition he says he suffered from at the time of the sale. However, as he initially  told us he 
wasnt suffering  from a pre-existing medical condition, I think it is reasonable for him to 
provide us with some  evidence of this condition  to confirm the dates of his diagnosis  and 
surgery. Although Mr M has told us that he has provided his representative with evidence  of 
this medical condition, we havent seen  this evidence. If Mr M is able to provide this evidence,  
then I can reconsider  this decision in the light of the new evidence.
-The cost of the policies was set out clearly in the loan agreements  Ive seen. So     Ms H and 
Mr M should have been aware of the cost of the policies. I havent seen anything  to indicate  
that the policies were unaffordable for them at the time of the sales.
-Ms H and Mr M could  have  cancelled  the policies  at any time (and did so) without losing out 
financially.
So at present,  I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Ms H and Mr M PPI.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently intend to uphold  Ms H and Mr Ms complaint.   
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2325101