K822xcomplaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt provide 
the information required by the estate to allow Inheritance Tax (IHT) to be calculated when it 
shouldve done.
background
Ms H and Mr H are the executors of Mrs Hs estate and on her death they instructed 
solicitors to deal with the estate. The solicitors contacted Barclay  to obtain information  that 
would allow them to calculate the IHT payable and complete the necessary IHT form for 
HMRC. Barclays  accepted various  service failings and offered £500 for the inconvenience 
caused but said it had identified no financial loss. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I thought it was reasonable for the estate to have  used 
solicitors and that Barclays should pay the additional costs incurred by the solicitors  because 
it didnt provide the information they needed  for IHT purposes. I explained why I couldnt 
make any distress and inconvenience  award to the executors but noted Barclays had offered 
£500 for this. I noted what MS H had said about unjust enrichment but explained it wasnt 
part of my role to punish a business.  I gave  both parties the opportunity  of responding and 
providing further information  they wanted  me to consider. 
Barclays said it had no further information  it wanted  me to consider and agreed to pay the 
additional solicitors  costs set out in the invoice that was sent to it by us. Ms H, on behalf of 
the estate, made the following key points:
The share transfer was to more than Mr H but this complaint should be left in 
abeyance so the parties  can clarify  their thoughts.
The crux of the issue wasnt in paying  the IHT charge in time but in getting the 
information to complete Form  IHT 400 upon  which the IHT was calculated.
If Barclays agrees to pay £500  for distress  and inconvenience it may be academic as 
she is aware this award is at the top end for such awards  but the ombudsman should  
make this an award so Barclays  cant walk away from this.
The ombudsman has fallen into the same trap as the adjudicator  about the award for 
distress and inconvenience. As a matter of construction  DISP  2.7.2  means an 
executor can complain as the Estate once Probate has been granted.
The ombudsmans argument is destroyed when one has regard to the FCA fine of 
another firm for serious failings in its probate and bereavement  process. The FCA 
stated that where appropriate the firm has paid interest on the funds to beneficiaries 
to compensate them for delay  in their receiving  the funds together with compensation 
for any consequential loss. Surely it isnt being  suggested that the fine of the firm was 
unfair, which must be the case  if the approach adopted in the provisional  decision is 
correct.
The provisional decision is contrary to DISP 2.7.2 and contrary  to the New Zealand 
approach on similar  wording.
On the issue of unjust  enrichment, so far as she understands  the provisional  
decision, the ombudsman is saying the enrichment is just and if so it is better if he 
says so directly.
She agrees  with the ombudsman about  the payment  of solicitors costs but it would 
be better to award the sum of £1,901 plus Vat of £380 making a total of £2,281.
Ref: DRN20501882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything  that Ms H has said but I am not going to change any of my 
findings. I will comment briefly on the main points she has made.
I have not misunderstood the rules so far as they relate to awards for distress and 
inconvenience. The executors are not the complainants but represent the complainant. So 
they represent the estate of Mrs H, which cannot  suffer distress and inconvenience. So I 
cannot award the executors anything  for this. It is a matter for Barclays whether it keeps to 
the offer it previously  made of £500  for this, although as I said,  I would expect  it to keep to its 
offer.
DISP 2.7.2 provides  no authority for awarding  distress and inconvenience to executors as 
Ms H has suggested it does. It simply explains, as I have already  set out, that a complaint 
can be brought on behalf of a deceased person by someone authorised by the law. This 
makes it clear that the executors are not the complainants  but have brought the complaint  on 
behalf of a deceased person who wouldve been  an eligible complainant.
Ms H has also referred to a fine imposed by the FCA on another firm and suggested this 
provides authority for saying an executor  is entitled to an award for distress and 
inconvenience. But a fine by the FCA is completely different to an award by our service.  She 
has pointed to the FCA stating that the firm would be paying  interest  to beneficiaries  and 
consequential loss. This has no relevance to the basis on which we can made  awards for 
distress and inconvenience 
The findings  I have  made in my provisional decision have absolutely no connection  with, or 
bearing on, the fine against the other  firm and they dont indicate in any way that the fine 
was unfair  as Ms H has suggested. The two things are entirely  separate.  
I have also made no finding on whether there was or wasnt unjust enrichment. As I made  
clear in my provisional decision my role isnt to punish Barclays when it has got something 
wrong.
Barclays did get things  wrong and didnt  provide  the information that was needed when it 
shouldve done.  It has to pay the solicitors  costs amounting to £2,281 that were incurred as a 
result of this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  and Barclays Bank UK PLC has to 
pay the redress I have  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20501883COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the 
information required by the estate to allow Inheritance Tax (IHT)  to be calculated  when it shouldve 
done.
background
Ms H and Mr H are the executors of Mrs Hs estate and on her death  they instructed solicitors to deal 
with the estate. The solicitors contacted  Barclay  to obtain information that would allow them  to 
calculate the IHT payable and complete the necessary IHT form for HMRC.
In its final response Barclays apologised unreservedly for various service  failings  including; the 
incomprehensible nature of the statements that were received and the delay in receiving  the correct  
statements; that the information  wasnt put in chronological order as requested;  the unacceptable time 
spend in the bereavement  teams call queues; a call back promise that wasnt fulfilled; the 
considerable amount of time spent  in reconciling  the information it had sent;  the further delays in 
dealing with the complaint when it was reallocated to the Smart Investor team;  not providing  a 
comprehensible answer to the repeated requests for confirmation  for paying  the uninvested cash  in 
the GIA and Investment ISA to HMRC; the delays  in the resolution of the complaint.
Barclays said it had been unable  to quantify any losses  caused by a bank error so wasnt going  to 
offer compensation. But it did offer £500 for the inconvenience caused by its service  failings.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and in summary said the following:
The executors have attempted to transfer  the ownership of shares into the name  of Mr H but 
there have been difficulties in doing this. This is a separate  complaint which Barclays have 
said it wants to respond properly  to. If the executors dont accept  the final response they can 
refer that complaint to our service.
The crux of the complaint is about the difficulties in getting the IHT bill paid and the fees 
incurred in doing this.
The concerns in not being able to pay the IHT bill in time isnt without merit and this wouldve 
been distressing  and worrying. But we dont award  distress and inconvenience to executors of 
an estate so he cant  award anything  to the executors for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
There is no legal requirement to appoint a solicitor to pay an IHT bill and the executors were 
sufficiently knowledgeable to be able to liaise directly with Barclays and couldve completed 
the necessary forms themselves.
The solicitors were appointed before the problems with Barclays arose and from the estimate 
given for completion of the work  it seems clear the executors were made aware there was no 
guarantee how long it would take working with Barclays to get the IHT bill paid.
When the executors  chose to use solicitors there was no guarantee there wouldnt be 
problems in settling  the IHT bill and when it became apparent  there would  be delays it was for 
the executors to decide if they wished  to continue using the solicitor knowing in advance there 
would be costs involved.
There was no need for the executors  to use solicitors  when complaining  to Barclays as there 
is no cost to making a complaint.
It isnt within his remit to force Barclays to pay out money  it is believed it has obtained unfairly.
Barclays acknowledges there was a failing in its service and Ms H has identified  around a 
months delay  which it should repay the management fee for.
Barclays said it was happy with the adjudicators opinion.  It said it hadnt debited  any administration 
fees from Mrs Hs account from August 2017 until February  2018.  It provided figures for the fees 
Ref: DRN20501884charged between February 2018 and May 2018 amounting to £103. It said these were  unpaid and it 
would waive them. 
Ms H didnt agree with the adjudicator. In short she made the following  points:
Barclays was contacted for information to allow the IHT due to be calculated,  not paid as the 
adjudicator has said. An issue did arise with payment  later but that isnt part of this complaint.
The failure  to provide  information meant solicitors costs were wasted chasing  for the 
information.
Distress was caused because this was pressed to the wire.
The additional costs  of the solicitors were in getting the information from Barclays to allow IHT 
to be calculated and IHT Form 400 to be completed, and on her brothers part on the pre 
death taxes.
Barclays has retained ownership of the shares for a period of around six months beyond  the 
request to hand over the shares  and we have done nothing  to be of assistance on that issue.
The crux of the complaint is the additional costs of the solicitors in getting  the information to 
allow the IHT calculation, not payment  of the IHT as the adjudicator  has referred  to.
Executors are customers of the bank as shown  by Barclays  own conditions.  The 
Administration of Estates  Act 1925 makes it clear the executors are the representative and 
assigns of the testator. On the adjudicators  analysis Barclays  can act with impunity  with 
regard to an executor  as it has no obligation.  If that is the position of our service then it should  
be made public so executors dont waste time in complaining to us. The New Zealand 
banking Ombudsman  takes the opposite view to us.
The estate was worth  around  £10 million and included overseas  investments, AIM 
investments, film investments and family arrangements which required specialist and 
professional advice. It is entirely reasonable that professional services from solicitors and 
accountants would  be utilised.
Solicitors having  been appointed, it isnt then reasonable to expect them  to delegate part of 
their role to the executors.
The estate couldnt have been wound up without the benefit of professional advice.
Barclays admitted  it caused  additional expenditure but the adjudicator has concluded, without  
any substance that there were  no financial  consequences to its failures.
She didnt  involve  solicitors in the complaint as this was pursued without any advice or 
assistance from them.  The only expenditure incurred by the solicitors was in answering 
questions raised by us, which based on the adjudicators opinion were  wholly unnecessary.
It is noted that we ignore  or dismiss the concept of unjust enrichment   a person  is not 
entitled to benefit from their own breach  - as this is against public policy.
The adjudicator ignored Barclays own admission  that it failed to give the information required 
in good time.
The adjudicator accepts  Barclays were  at fault but has left them  financially the poorer which 
doesnt seem  fair. 
As the executors didnt agree with the adjudicator  the matter has been referred  to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have set out below under  separate headings  the issues that arise  in this complaint.  Before I set out 
my findings  under each heading I think it is important  to point  out that Barclays accepted in its final 
response that it hadnt provided the service it shouldve done and that the information it provided at 
times wasnt right. So there is no issue that it got something  wrong and the main point of contention is 
what it needs  to do to put things right.
The transfer  of shares
Ref: DRN20501885This is a matter that the executors raised after the complaint had been referred to us. I agree with the 
adjudicator that this needs  to be dealt  with separately. From  what  I have seen Barclays have had the 
opportunity of considering that complaint  so if the executors want  us to consider that complaint they 
should confirm this and a new complaint can then be opened.
Distress and Inconvenience  award
I accept that Ms H and Mr H will have been caused distress and inconvenience as a result  of what 
Barclays got wrong. But that doesnt mean I can award  them any redress for this.
I note what Ms H has said about the executors  being customers of Barclays. But an executor is the 
representative of the deceased estate  in other words they dont act in any personal capacity but in a 
representative capacity. 
The rules set out in the Handbook of the industry regulator, the FCA,  state that a complaint may be 
brought on behalf of an eligible complainant  or a deceased person  who would  have been an eligible 
complainant. That is the basis on which the executors have brought this complaint. They are not 
eligible complainants in their own right and consequently they arent entitled to an award for distress 
and inconvenience.
I acknowledge what Ms H has said about a firm acting with impunity towards  an executor because  it 
owes no obligation to the executor. It is true that a firm doesnt  have to consider any distress and 
inconvenience caused  to executors for the reasons  I have  explained. But it can do so if it chooses, as 
Barclays has done in this complaint when offering £500 for this. And the fact that we cant make such  
an award doesnt  mean a firm will choose to cause distress and inconvenience because  of that and I 
think it is unlikely it would do so.
I note Ms H has suggested if we are unable  to award distress and inconvenience this should be made  
public so executors dont  waste time complaint to us. But a firm will still be potentially responsible for 
losses arising to an estate  as a result of its actions,  which we can make an award for. So the fact we 
are unable  to award an amount for distress and inconvenience doesnt mean  it is a waste  of time 
complaining to us.
I also note her reference to the New Zealand Banking Ombudsman taking a different view. But the 
rules and approach  of a different ombudsman  service have no bearing on the rules  I have to apply.
Unjust Enrichment
I note what Ms H has said about a person not being entitled to benefit from their own breach  as this 
would be contrary to public  policy. But our role isnt to punish a business for what it has done wrong.  It 
is to put the party complaining back in the position, as far as possible, they wouldve been in if the 
business hadnt got things  wrong.
Professional advice
I agree with Ms H with regard to the use of solicitors in dealing with the estate especially given its 
overall value and the assets within  it. And having  appointed  solicitors before any issue arose  with 
Barclays I dont think it would be reasonable for the executors to then stop using the solicitors when 
an issue arose.
I think  it was entirely reasonable  for the executors  to continue to use the solicitors  they had already 
appointed and it isnt reasonable or realistic  to expect executors to simply jump in and take over at 
particular times when  an issue arises simply  because the estate  will incur additional  costs.
It follows from what I have said that I think  Barclays should  pay the solicitors reasonable costs related  
to Barclays providing  the wrong or unclear information to them in 2018.  
Ref: DRN20501886The solicitors have said that Barclays  provided  a consolidated statement and valuation and tax 
certificates to the executors on 25 May 2018. They have said they spent  the following month seeking  
clarification of the figures and this was urgent because a significant  amount of IHT was due for 
payment. 
I have considered the evidence and Im satisfied  that Barclays  did provide information which  was at 
times wrong,  unclear or confusing and it has accepted as such in its final response letter.  I think this 
did necessitate work from the solicitors which would not otherwise have been necessary and incurred  
legal costs  for the estate which would  not otherwise have been payable.  I think  it is reasonable that 
Barclays pay the reasonable additional costs  incurred. 
Mr H wrote to Barclays on 24 September 2018  setting  out what he thought it should  pay for solicitors 
fees. He attached  a schedule showing the units recorded by the solicitors between 25 May 2018 and 
27 June 2018 which total 99 units at an hourly  rate of £192 with each unit charged at a tenth of that 
rate. Both the schedule and hourly  rate have  been  confirmed  by the solicitors. On that basis the 
executors claim  costs  of £1,901 plus Vat of £380. 
I have already said I cant award  anything for distress  and inconvenience but I would expect  Barclays 
to keep to the offer it previously made for this of £500 and not deduct  this from the award I have 
made.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay the 
redress I have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2050188