K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a level term assurance policy that 
provided life cover for a mortgage.  She says she was told she had to have it but didnt  need  
it.
background
Mrs E took out the policy with Abbey National (now Santander) in 1997  to cover a mortgage. 
The policy was for 25 years but the mortgage was paid off in 2001. The policy was kept until 
2012 when she cancelled it.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached to this final 
decision and forms part of it. In short I didnt uphold the complaint because I wasnt satisfied 
on the evidence  that Mrs E had been  told she had to have the policy or that it was an 
unsuitable recommendation for her. I said even if I had upheld the complaint she wouldnt be 
entitled to repayment of all the premiums as she had chosen  to keep the policy after the 
mortgage had been paid off.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  further information before making my final 
decision. Santander had nothing further to add. Mrs E didnt agree with my provisional  
decision and, in short, made the following points:
She doesnt recall  the exact words  used during the meeting with the adviser but she 
remembers being presented with a pack of documentation with separate  brochures 
and forms for the mortgage, PEP and life policy which was presented as the 
mortgage pack.
The policy was sold by Abbey National so she doesnt understand how Santander 
can say with any certainty what the documents said so she is disappointed the 
provisional decision seems to prefer what Santander says to her direct recollection.
She accepts the policy wasnt a condition of the mortgage  but doesnt  agree that 
Santander can say 20 years later that the documents made  this clear when that 
documentation isnt available.
If life cover wasnt a condition of the mortgage  and the two products were  available  
independently then it is unlikely either document wouldve referred  to the other.
She is disappointed that her evidence of what happened at the meeting is so 
significantly doubted particularly as Santander can produce no evidence  of the 
meeting. At no time during the meeting was there a discussion  about  whether or not 
a life policy was suitable for her and she didnt  go into the meeting  looking to take out 
a life policy.
The adviser went through the pack of documentation and asked her to sign various 
documents that were presented as interdependent.
The adviser was aware she was single with no dependents she can definitely say 
there was no discussion  or advice  given about whether taking out life cover was a 
sensible thing for her to do. If there had been  a discussion  she would have said there  
was no expectation  from her family they would benefit from her estate if she died.
She has no doubt that if it had been explained  that the policy was optional she 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy knowing the PEP was intended  to cover 
repayment of the capital sum.
Until she saw the press coverage  (of mis-selling of products) her understanding  was 
the policy was a condition of the mortgage and she had no basis for complaint, as I 
have said.
Ref: DRN20246712As far as she is aware Santander  doesnt deny the adviser  led her to believe that she 
had to have the policy  but instead  seems  to be saying  that the documentation made 
clear the policy  wasnt  a condition and this overrode  whatever  the adviser said. She 
has already said why there is no evidential basis for what  Santander has said about 
the documents.
She didnt make  a conscious decision to keep paying the premiums after 2001. She 
and her then husband  took out a joint mortgage  in 2001 which was redeemed in 
2003 and she then lived in rented accommodation for several years. This was a 
turbulent time for her and the benefits of the policy to her then dependents never  
crossed her mind.
The trigger for cancelling  the policy was because  they had to reduce their outgoings. 
The reason she didnt cancel earlier was because  she had more pressing concerns.
Santander offered  to repay the premiums between 1997  and 2001 which  indicated  to 
her they acknowledged they had acted unfairly.
The adviser did act unfairly because he didnt  discuss whether the policy was 
suitable and it was presented as an integral part of the mortgage deal. To remedy  the 
unfairness and put her in the position  she wouldve been in all the premiums should 
be repaid to her as she wouldnt have paid any premiums if the policy  hadnt been  
mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything  that Mrs E has said but Im not persuaded to change my 
decision. I note when she complained to Santander  she said she had been told by the 
adviser she had to take out the policy and that this was a necessary part of taking out the 
mortgage. She has now said in her response  that she doesnt recall exactly  what  the adviser 
said but that she was presented with the policy as part of the mortgage package.
I didnt accept Mrs Es recollection she had been  told she had to have the policy because 
this had happened so long ago. For the same reason Im not persuaded that she was simply 
presented with the policy as part of the mortgage  package without any discussion about  her 
need for policy or its suitability. The advisers  role was to consider the customers  
circumstances and provide a suitable  recommendation and Im not satisfied he didnt do so.
Mrs E has referred to me preferring Santanders  evidence over hers. But it has provided no 
evidence of what happened at the meeting.  I have made my finding based  on what the 
adviser was expected to do and Mrs Es recollection  isnt enough to persuade me it is more 
likely, than not, he didnt  do what he shouldve done.
I have referred to, and accepted, Santanders statement that the policy  wasnt  a condition  of 
the mortgage. But if I didnt accept that evidence then I wouldve found  the policy was a 
condition and that she hadnt been misled and the adviser wouldve done nothing wrong in 
selling the policy to her on that basis.
I made  no finding on what Santander  said about the documents making clear the policy 
wasnt a condition of the mortgage  - as Mrs E seems to think  I did. But I would point out that 
just because Santander doesnt have  her documents  doesnt  mean  it isnt aware of what  
mortgage and life policy documents wouldve generally shown at the time. And the mortgage  
documents are likely to have shown what was required. This is unlikely to have included the 
Ref: DRN20246713need for a life policy given this wasnt a condition of the mortgage.  I dont think  the 
documents would  override  what the adviser said to her but, given Im not satisfied  he misled 
her, this doesnt  help her. 
I accept that Mrs Es mother and sister didnt have any expectation they would benefit from 
the property on her death. But that doesnt  mean  Mrs E wouldnt have wanted them to 
benefit  rather  then the mortgage company  if she did die. Mrs E has referred to the PEP 
paying off the mortgage  but this will have been  designed to pay off the capital at the end of 
the mortgage term and is unlikely to have covered the mortgage throughout the term. So it 
didnt do the same thing  as the policy.
Santander hasnt  accepted at any time that the adviser led her to believe she had to have  
the policy as she suggests it did. It has throughout said that the adviser wouldve completed 
a fact find and made a recommendation based  on the information he was given. And its offer 
to repay  premiums paid up to when the mortgage was redeemed  in 2001  wasnt on the basis  
it accepted it had done anything wrong.
I note what Mrs E has said about  why she didnt stop the policy  when the mortgage was paid 
off. I dont agree with everything she has said. But this really  goes to redress which isnt 
payable as Im not satisfied Santander did anything wrong, so I dont comment any further 
on this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above and in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20246714COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a level term assurance policy that provided life 
cover for a mortgage. She says she was told she had to have it but didnt need it.
background
Mrs E took out the policy with Abbey National (now Santander) in 1997 to cover a mortgage. The 
policy was for 25 years but the mortgage was paid off in 2001. The policy was kept until 2012 when 
she cancelled it.
Santander didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold. It said that it had never been a condition of 
a mortgage that life cover had to be taken  out and the documents that wouldve been provided  
wouldve made  this clear.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  that the policy  had been mis-sold. He 
said that as Mrs E was single with no dependents  and there  was no other evidence  to suggest she 
needed the policy he couldnt fairly  say she had such a need. He said that Santander should repay  all 
the premiums she had paid.
Santander didnt agree with the investigator. It repeated  that it has never been compulsory  to hold life 
cover for its mortgages and the documents that Mrs E wouldve seen at the time, wouldve  made  this 
clear. It also didnt agree  that it should have to pay all of the premiums given Mrs E had kept the 
policy going after the mortgage had been  paid off. But it said it was willing to offer to repay the 
premiums paid until the mortgage was redeemed  in 2001  to settle the complaint.
As Santander didnt agree  with the investigator the matter has been  referred  to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mrs E will be disappointed I have come to a different conclusion to the investigator 
and I think it is important  to make clear that my findings  and decision are made on a balance or 
probability basis  what is more likely than not. So I am not saying what  definitely did or didnt happen  
or it isnt possible that something  different, to what I decide, happened.
Santander doesnt have  any documentation in relation  to the sale of the policy in 1997 other than the 
Life Assurance  Proposal  Form  Mrs E completed - which  shows the policy was taken out over 25 years 
to cover a mortgage and that Mrs E was single and with no dependents  at the time. Mrs E has also 
not been  able to produce any documents from the time of sale.  Given  the mortgage was taken out in 
1997 and paid off in 2001 and the policy itself was cancelled in 2012 it isnt surprising that neither 
party has any documentation showing what happened.
Mrs E has said she was told she had to take out the policy to get the mortgage she wanted.  
Santander has said it has never been a requirement  to take out life cover  to get a mortgage.  If it had 
been a condition there would  have been nothing wrong with the adviser saying  Mrs E had to have the 
policy and no basis for a complaint. The fact Santander  has confirmed  it wasnt a condition simply 
means I have  to decide if Mrs E was misled by the adviser. 
Although I have taken account of what Mrs E has said about what she was told I have to consider  
what weight to give this evidence. Im mindful  she is referring to what happened  around 20 years 
before she even had reason to complain. And she had no reason  to think about, or go over, what 
happened in 1997 over that period.
Ref: DRN20246715Recollections after such a long period  of time, especially when there is no reason  in the interim  to 
think about what happened, are very unlikely  to be accurate. For this to have happened the adviser 
wouldve had to deliberately  have told Mrs E something that he/she knew wasnt true. I accept this is 
a possibility but the policy wasnt a PPI policy  the basis on which Mrs E first complained   where 
such practices were more  common.
So whilst I accept she has told me what she believes happened at the time Im not persuaded, based 
only on her recollection, that she was told she had to have the policy. 
That isnt the end of the matter though. The policy still had to be a suitable recommendation. 
Generally speaking, taking out life cover  to protect a mortgage is considered to be a sensible  thing to 
do and something I would expect an adviser to discuss  with a customer. I have said generally 
because there  are circumstances where  it isnt appropriate to recommend such a policy.
Mrs E was single and had no dependents  which might indicate that she didnt need a life policy. But of 
itself I dont think it is enough to say the recommendation  was unsuitable. It is not uncommon  for 
those who are single and with no dependents  to still want life cover so that other family members can 
benefit on their death, or for other reasons, rather than for the mortgage company to get the proceeds  
of the house. Im not satisfied, based on the very limited information available,  that it is more likely, 
than not, that Mrs E didnt have a need for the policy. So I dont think it is more  likely  than not the 
adviser did anything wrong in recommending  the policy.
But as this is a provisional decision I think it would  be helpful to set out what  my findings  would be on 
redress if I did uphold the complaint as it is possible  that Mrs E could  provide further evidence that 
leads me to change my decision. 
If I was to uphold the complaint I dont think it is reasonable that Santander should  have to repay all 
the premiums.
The mortgage  was redeemed in 2001  but Mrs E kept the policy until 2012. In an email to us of 3 
October 2018 Mrs E said that at those  points she was aware of the policy but had no reason  to think 
she had been mis-sold  the policy.  The email  was about the time limits that apply to making 
complaints, but that doesnt change what she said. 
Given she was aware she had the policy in 2001 when the mortgage was paid off its more likely than 
not she chose to keep the policy going when  she knew she no longer  needed to. This may have been 
to provide life cover for a new mortgage or just because she thought  that having £77,000 worth of life 
cover for a further 21 years was worth  having. Whatever the reason it was her choice to keep paying  
the premiums for a policy she knew she didnt  have  to have  so this isnt something Santander  should 
have to pay for.
Even if I found that she had forgotten about the policy and didnt intend  to keep it going I still dont 
think it would be reasonable to expect Santander to repay premiums from 2001 to 2012 when this 
would be based on her not noticing she was paying  a premium for a policy  she didnt need for a 
period of 11 years.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024671