K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Interactive Investor Services Limited  (ii) sold his shares  without permission or 
notification. He would like the positions to be reinstated and missed  dividends to be paid.
background
Mr W opened a trading account  in 2006.  As he held some shares listed in the United States,  
he had to fill in a form to ensure he didnt pay tax applicable to US citizens. The form, a     
W-8BEN, would confirm Mr Ws foreign  status  to the US Internal Revenue Service and 
would be valid for around three years.
So in 2009, Mr W was asked to complete a new W-8BEN form. But he missed  the deadline 
so his account was blocked  until he sent the form in a week later. 
Another three years later in 2012, Mr W again needed to complete a new W-8BEN form. ii 
said they wrote to him about this on four occasions, in July, November and twice in 
December 2012.  But as they didnt  hear from him, they sold his US stock  in January 2013.
Mr W complained  to ii last year as he didnt  remember receiving the letters.  ii looked  into his 
concerns but didnt  think theyd done  anything wrong by writing to him and selling the 
shares. So Mr W asked for our help. One of our investigators looked  into what  happened but 
didnt think ii had done anything wrong.  Mr W didnt agree  he said,  in summary:
as ii had his email address, they could  have emailed him about the W-8BEN form 
theres no evidence  the letters were sent by ii, or received by him
its possible he could have received them but made a mistake and not replied
its also possible he could have changed  address and not told ii
important letters with implications such as these should have been sent by special or 
recorded delivery
the W-8BEN process wasnt something  that was new to him, so if he had got the 
letters, he would have  known what  to do and would have renewed the form just like 
hed done before
he should have  been contacted by other means  when he hadnt replied to the letters,  
this wouldnt have  been a great deal of effort for ii
ii breached their authority by selling the shares
an email notification he received when the shares were  sold simply said a statement 
was available, without  any reference  to the actual  sale
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons.
ii told us they wrote  to Mr W four times  in 2012. They  havent  been able to show  us copies of 
those letters given the time thats passed. But they have shared screenshots  from their 
account management records. These  show  that the mailings related to W-8BEN  forms, and 
that letters were sent to the same address we have on file for Mr W.
I cant review  the content of those letters, but ii have  shared a similar  communication  that 
was used in 2016  they say it contained the same  content as the 2012 notification.  The 
Ref: DRN24347012example explained that a new form needed  completing, gave  a warning as to what would 
happen if it wasnt, and gave guidance as to how to go about completing the form. 
So ii have been able to provide some evidence that they wrote  to Mr W four times 
throughout 2012. At face value, it is reasonable to believe that these letters were sent and it 
is difficult to envisage why he failed to receive any of these letters. I wont be able to prove  
whether Mr W did or did not receive the letters.  But I take his point in that had he have done, 
he would  have returned the form like hed done  before.  
Having thought carefully about what Mr W has said, on balance I consider the four attempts  
to communicate  were sufficient. I dont  think it would be reasonable to say ii ought  to have 
used recorded  mail.  And I dont see that ii was under any sort of duty to contact non-
responders through  other means.  As an execution only client,  Mr W was responsible for 
monitoring his account and he did receive  an email  when his shares were sold  the email 
didnt refer to the sale,  but instead notified him a statement was available and had he 
checked, he could  have noticed this issue at the time and re-invested. 
So from what Ive seen,  I think ii did enough to get in touch  with Mr W. And I think given his 
acceptance of the terms and conditions  on the account, ii had the right to liquidate his stock 
under section 23.1.4 of the agreement. Not having  the form in place could  have exposed  
Mr W and ii to complicated  tax implications  because of this I consider  the sale of the stock 
to have been a proportionate response  in this case, so I wont  be asking ii to reinstate the 
positions. 
my final decision
It is unfortunate that Mr W didnt receive  the reminders about his W-8BEN. But Im satisfied 
that ii did send  letters and I cant reasonably hold them responsible for any failings by the 
postal service. So for the reasons explained  above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2434701