K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that the travel pack she took out with her Premier account in June 2017  
with Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  was not of a high enough standard  and so not 
suitable for her.
background
Mrs P took out a Premier  account with a travel  pack  in June 2017.
The travel  pack contained travel insurance. Mrs P had cause to make a claim on the travel 
insurance and part of the claim  was turned down, whereas someone she knows  had their 
claim fully accepted in the same circumstances.
Mrs P says that this means the travel insurance  was not suitable  for her as a Premier 
product customer.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ps complaint and did not uphold it. Mrs P disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ps complaint.
Mrs Ps complaint is that the travel  insurance she was given in June 2017 should  have  been  
of the highest  quality  as it was part of a Premier product.  But she says it was clearly  not as 
good as another policy she became aware of, because that policy recently paid out for a 
scenario in which she was turned down.
The response of the insurance company to her claim is not the subject of this complaint. 
That has been looked at under another case at this service.
Ive considered her representations very carefully.  
In my view, the fact that a product is branded Premier does  not of itself imply its the best in 
the market. But I think  it would be reasonable to assume it implies that its better  than many  
or even  most other products in the marketplace.
In this case the Premier  account with travel  pack Mrs P took out included worldwide travel  
insurance, travel assistant, RAC breakdown cover,  and a fee free overdraft of £200. The 
Premier brand is aligned  to all of this plus the operation of the bank account itself. Ive 
looked at all of this together including particularly the travel insurance  policy  provided. And in 
my view it was of a high standard when compared  to other competing products Ive looked  at 
in the bank account market. So I dont think I can say Mrs P was misled by the branding 
about the general nature of the package she was buying.
When a bank account is sold, the bank  is required to ensure that its suitable  for the 
consumer and that sufficient information  is provided. Mrs P clearly used the product 
extensively and so I think it was suitable  for her. And Barclays has provided evidence  that it 
Ref: DRN27348262sent Mrs P a summary  and all the details of the product including  the travel insurance  policy  
for her to read.
Ive considered whether Barclays should have  highlighted  the scenario  Mrs P refers  to in 
their written  summary  or in any conversation it had with her. But the very specific nature of 
Mrs Ps claim that was not paid by the insurer is such that I dont think the usually  acceptable 
summary of a policy would include it.
So I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong when it sold the Premier account  with travel 
pack to Mrs P.
I think it may be helpful to explain to Mrs P that if she is unhappy with my decision and 
rejects it, she can still take this matter to a court if she wishes.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2734826