K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about Aviva Life Services UK Limiteds advice to buy a Whole  of Life Policy.
background
In October  1987 Mr L took out a Whole of Life Lifestyle Protection  Plan.  At the time of 
Mr Ls complaint, the policy was still in force and provided over £17,000 of life cover and had 
a surrender value  of over £3,600. 
Mr L complained in January 2018  saying  that he thought this policy was mis-sold.
Aviva looked  into the complaint, but explained  that it had no evidence or paperwork which 
set out the details of the sale or Mr Ls circumstances at the time. So it didnt uphold  his 
complaint. Mr L referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into his complaint. He explained that he had also tried to 
obtain any sales material which Aviva  had from the time,  in order  to establish firstly whether 
advice was given  and secondly  whether it was given  with reasonable skill and care.  
However, Aviva confirmed that it had no paperwork relating to the sale at all. As Mr L also 
had no paperwork,  or anything  to demonstrate  how the sale took place or why the product 
might have been mis-sold, the investigator  concluded that he could not uphold  the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that the investigator  hadnt considered  the fact that he had been 
sold five products from Aviva at around the same time. He said this showed  that he had 
been preyed on. He said that Aviva had already  admitted that it had sold him a pension he 
didnt need, and all these products have huge  start up fees. He also explained  that Aviva 
exaggerated its forecasts of how well these products would do, and misrepresented how 
much it would cost him in fees and charges. He complained that his faith in their forecasts 
was used to sell products  and each of them had massive costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator. 
Ive read the correspondence between Mr L and the investigator and its clear  to me that 
Mr L feels very strongly about  the complaint and the way Aviva  treated him. I can see that he 
has been very keen  to impress upon  the investigator  how he felt taken advantage of by 
Aviva at the time, and that these products were sold him without any care of how much they 
would cost him or whether  they were right for him at the time. 
Understandably, Mr L feels that he would have  a lot more money  in his pocket had he not 
invested in these products at the time.  
Both Aviva and the investigator have explained  the applicable rules that apply to a sale of 
this type in 1987, so I wont go over that ground  again. 
The key issue in this case, Im sorry to say, is the total lack of evidence from the sale. I dont 
blame either  party for this  after all the product was sold over 30 years ago. 
Ref: DRN26195362Generally, where  evidence is missing or incomplete, my role is to decide  matters on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider  to be the most likely explanation for 
what happened. But Mr L has provided  no evidence at all to back  up his claim  that this policy  
was mis-sold to him. Hes not explained in what way this particular policy was mis-sold, nor 
described in any detail why this product wasnt right for him at the time. 
In addition, it also isnt clear that Aviva actually advised Mr L to buy this policy at the time. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling  about  these matters,  my role is to determine  his 
complaint based  on what  I consider fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. In order  to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint, Id need to firstly assume that Aviva provided advice to him. Id then 
also need to make assumptions  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, and assume that 
the advice provided  didnt  match those  circumstances. Alternatively, Id need to make  
assumptions about the information Mr L was provided  and assume that information was 
deliberately inaccurate  or misleading.   
I dont consider it would  be fair and reasonable to make these assumptions, given the total 
lack of evidence  to substantiate  them. 
I understand the investigator asked Mr L to provide more  evidence if he had it, and 
unfortunately Mr L didnt.  So on that basis, and fully recognising that this will come as a 
considerable disappointment to Mr L, Im afraid that Im not persuaded Aviva  did mis-sell this 
particular policy to him. It follows therefore,  that Im not going to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2619536