K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss S took out the PPI in August 2003  at the same  time as she arranged the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss S says she was given the impression that the credit card wouldnt be agreed  unless 
she agreed to the PPI. The credit card application form has a separate  section  for insurance. 
There is a pre-printed cross  in the box to request PPI. From what  we know of BoSs sales  
processes at the time,  I think there would have been  a discussion about PPI and that the 
cross would only have been entered  in the box if Miss S said that she wanted the policy.  The 
relevant section of the application form also has the option to select  another  insurance 
product, but the box next to that has been  left blank to decline it. If, as Miss S has said,  she 
was given the impression by the adviser  that she had to take out insurance in order  to get 
the card, I might have expected her to end up with all of the available insurance  options.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Ss recollection of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Miss S has said,  but looking at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Miss S probably decided  to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even  if 
she no longer remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Miss S to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Miss S it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs.  And from what I know of Miss Ss circumstances at 
the time,  it was suitable for her.
Miss S wouldnt have received any sick pay from her job. And she didnt have any other 
means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could have provided her with a 
useful benefit  at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Miss S wasnt  affected  by any of those things. 
As I think  that Miss S had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind.
Ref: DRN22651902This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Miss S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc has already paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2265190