K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that he was unable to access his TSB Bank plc accounts online,  and 
so missed out on an investment opportunity.
background
Mr M says he tried to log into his TSB accounts online on 9 April 2018, but that he wasnt  
able to access them. He had intended  to transfer  £4,500 to a broker  in order to make an 
investment. Mr M has said that he made various attempts to contact TSB by phone, but 
wasnt able to get through. 
As he was unable to log in or contact TSB by phone, Mr M didnt complete this transfer.  And 
hes said that the investment has since substantially increased in value.
Mr M has said that he continued to have  problems accessing his accounts  online for several  
weeks after this. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. TSB told us that it didnt have full records of what 
had happened  around 9 April. This was because of wider IT issues  that TSB started to 
experience in late April 2018. But TSB said it wasnt aware of any problems that existed 
earlier than this. And TSB also provided  some  evidence to show  Mr M hadnt  attempted  to 
log in to his account from late April until the end of May 2018. 
Based on this our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M remained  
unsatisfied so his complaint  was passed to me for a decision. 
Having reviewed the evidence, and taken  into account what we know  about the wider IT 
problems TSB has experienced since late April 2018, I was minded to partially uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Essentially, I felt that Mr M most  likely  did experience some difficulties 
operating his accounts in the way he wanted  and so TSB should pay him £150 
compensation for this. But I didnt think TSB should be responsible for Mr M missing out on 
the investment  opportunity. 
I explained that whilst we are not aware of any wide scale issues  with TSBs IT system as 
early as 9 April 2018, TSB werent  able to provide specific details relating to Mr Ms attempts 
to access his accounts at that time.  And that it was possible that Mr M had experienced a 
localised issue. So I was minded to conclude that Mr M wasnt able to log in, and so wasnt 
able to make  the transfer he wanted to online.  
However, whilst  this would no doubt have been frustrating to Mr M, I did think that he could 
reasonably have been expected to have  done more to mitigate  his losses. 
I explained that whilst it is possible  a localised issue meant Mr M had been unable to access 
his account online, at a time when  most  customers apparently werent experiencing 
problems, it wasnt likely  that any similarly  localised issue wouldve affected TSBs  phone 
lines. Were not aware of any substantial problems TSB had with its phone service  in early 
April 2018, so I thought TSB was most likely  operating a normal  telephone service at the 
time in question.  And I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Mr M to have waited to get 
through and make his transfer over the phone. 
Ref: DRN28654542I also thought  that even  if an individual wasnt able to get through  over the phone,  if they 
wanted to make such a significant transaction, it would be reasonable for them to visit a 
branch. Mr M has said he has a busy work schedule and doesnt live near a TSB branch. But 
whilst having to visit a branch  may have been  inconvenient, it would be reasonable to expect 
someone to go to some effort if they wanted  to make such a transaction.
I explained that in order to say TSB should  take responsibility for Mr M inability to invest, I 
needed to be satisfied he had done all you could reasonably  be expected to do to make the 
investment. And I wasnt minded to reach  that conclusion  based on the evidence  I had. 
TSB is willing to pay Mr M £150  compensation. Mr M has responded providing more  details 
of the investment. He also said he feels strongly  that he exhausted  all reasonable options  to 
allow the investment,  including multiple  failed attempts on the phone.  That he was extremely  
busy in his job and working hours do not allow visiting a branch outside peak hours. And that 
even then the time this would take wouldnt  be acceptable during a working day. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Ms comments about  the difficulties posed to him in terms of visiting a 
branch. But Im not persuaded that an inability to make a transfer easily is enough  to make 
TSB responsible for Mr M inability to invest.  And I still havent been  provided with any 
persuasive evidence  that TSB wasnt operating a normal telephone service in early  April 
2018. So I dont  think TSB is responsible for Mr M missing out on the investment. 
Because Mr M most  likely did experience  problems with operating  his account normally,  and 
with speaking to TSB on the phone after late April 2018, I do though think  it is fair and 
reasonable for TSB to pay Mr M compensation to reflect this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, TSB Bank  plc 
should pay Mr M £150 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2865454