K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policies in June  1998 and January 2001, at the same  time as 
taking out two loans. They applied for the second loan and PPI policy in branch. Nationwide 
cant say for sure how the first policy was sold, but Mr and Mrs G say that was also sold in 
branch. Ive decided  the complaint on the basis that both loans and policies were sold in 
branch.
The PPI one-off upfront premiums of £921.51  and £1,627.78 were paid in advance  by being 
added to the relevant loan (single premiums)  where they attracted interest over the term of 
each loan. The loans  were repayable over 60-month and 84-month terms and the policy  
terms matched those of the loans. The monthly loan repayments were  £113.76  and £97.91 
with the PPI costing  an additional £20.96  and £26.51 making the total monthly repayment for 
the loans £134.72 and £124.22. 
The PPI provided  cover for Mr G for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Gs monthly loan repayment  for up 
to the remaining term in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months per claim in 
the event of unemployment. 
At the time of both sales, Mr G was employed as a traffic signal technician. He has told us 
he was entitled  to sick pay for more than three months but less than six months and 
redundancy pay but that he didnt have any other means of repaying the loans should  he be 
unable to work. Mr and Mrs G have said Mr G was in good health at the time of the sales. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the first loan account was closed when the 
second loan was arranged and that the second  loan account closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the relevant times. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the PPI and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Gs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the PPI was of inherently poor value as shown  by the low 
Ref: DRN26117782claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs G 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint
These sales took place  in 1998 and 2001  before the sale of general  insurance products like 
this became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles 
for Businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreements themselves concluded in 2001 and 2002. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes which Im satisfied are applicable  to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In 
particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance  Code for private 
customers  the GISC Code. 
The sales  were made  during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at these times:
Ref: DRN26117783The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at these times.  So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable for them, given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the PPI, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the PPI and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN26117784-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI was optional. 
Understandably given how long ago these  sales took place, there are gaps in the information  
Nationwides been able to provide. But, from experience of how it sold PPI, I think it likely  
they had to agree to take PPI before it was added. I also note that the credit  agreements 
Mr and Mrs G signed  in 1998 and 2001 refer to Optional Credit  Insurance . 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the PPI was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Both Nationwide and Mr and Mrs G agree that advice wasnt  provided  during these sales.  
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs G to make an informed choice about whether to take out the PPI, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the PPI was intended to cover (that is that the PPI would protect  their payments if 
Mr and Mrs G was unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment).  I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the 
PPI without any sense  of what the policies were. And I think  Mr and Mrs G knew  what the 
premiums being added to the loans were and the monthly costs (as this information was, in 
my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreements Mr and Mrs G signed).  
But the evidence  from the time of each sale doesnt  tell us whether Nationwide gave 
sufficient information  about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed  to take 
out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the PPI, including  
Ref: DRN26117785drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs G. So Ive gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the PPI, had Nationwide  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs G say they would not have taken  the PPI out and believe I should  presume this 
to be the case  given the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs G had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the PPI against  the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr G being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs G chose to take these policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs G thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs G has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
Ref: DRN26117786As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs G were given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the PPI, such as the limitations and 
exclusions werent as clear as it should have been. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI excluded claims  relating to medical  conditions Mr G knew  about or ought  to 
have known about on the start date of the PPI. Or medical conditions  for which  hed 
received treatment, advice or was referred for during  the 12 months  before the start 
and which recur  within 12 months  of the start;  
The PPI limited, and in some situations, excluded  unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the PPI wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in these sales,  might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from 
taking out the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sales  shows  that the 
PPI wasnt fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable  for them. Mr G was eligible for its benefits  and 
it provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr G would have  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr G didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think 
they had some good reasons to take the PPI out.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policies  without first providing  some 
evidence to support  that claim.
The PPI did provide a pro-rata  refund if it was cancelled early,  so the policies provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs G decided to repay either  of the loans early and cancel the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the PPI. The PPI was sufficiently  close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  were  Mr G made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would 
have taken out the PPI in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN26117787That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should  
be presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless , in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs G found  themselves in as result of the sales was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
processes were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have 
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would 
not have taken out the PPI. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have taken out the PPI, 
Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would  still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN26117788Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2611778