K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt properly  investigate
a claim made against his motorbike insurance policy and didnt tell him it had settled  a third
party claim. Mrs R, Mr Hs mother is representing  him in his complaint.
All references to the insurer Advantage include its agents.
background
Mr H bought a motorbike insurance policy with the insurer, Advantage. In July 2018 he was
involved in a collision involving two other vehicles. Unfortunately Mr H was injured and was
in hospital for some  time.  His bike was scrapped.
Mr Hs mother, Mrs R reported  the incident  immediately to Advantage.  One of the third parties  
involved was insured, but the other wasnt. Advantage received a claim from the insured third 
party and in August 2018 decided to settle  it. It didnt tell Mr H or his representative. It didnt 
contact Mr H about the claim after Mrs R reported it.
Mr Hs insurance  cover  was for Third Party, Fire and Theft (TPFT).  Mrs R said shed
provided Advantage with the police  crime reference  number. The police told Mr H that the other 
driver was uninsured.  Mrs R said because  her son didnt hear from Advantage after she reported 
the incident, he thought  no more of it. 
When Mr H recovered four months  later, he returned to work  and bought a replacement  bike
and insured it elsewhere. Mrs R said this was because  Advantage wouldnt  provide insurance
cover for the replacement  bike.
However, in November 2018  Mrs R said the new insurer cancelled  Mr Hs policy because he
hadnt disclosed a fault claim which Advantage had recorded on the Claims Underwriting
Exchange (CUE) database (which insurers use to check  against  fraud.)
Mrs R complained to Advantage. In December 2018 Advantage apologised and upheld the
complaint.
To put things right, it agreed to change the claim recording to a non fault claim and allow
Mr Hs No Claims Discount (NCD). It said as it seemed  the third party  was uninsured; it
would deal with the claim under the Uninsured Driver Promise section of Mr Hs policy.
Advantage said it would look to recover the costs it paid from the uninsured third party as it
settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis to avoid escalating  hire car costs  from the
insured third party. And it said the claim would remain  open  while  it tried to recover  the
costs.
Advantage paid a total of £130 compensation for its poor service  and handling  of the claim.
In May 2019  Advantage asked Mr H to complete an accident  report form to assist  it in
recovering its costs from the uninsured third party.
Our investigator thought Advantage hadnt  paid enough to resolve Mr Hs complaint and so
she recommended  it pay a further  £120, bringing the total sum to £250.  She thought
Advantage should have  done  more to properly investigate the claim.
Ref: DRN22375132The investigator said that from the information shed seen, she couldnt  say that Advantage
was responsible for the cancellation  of Mr Hs policy for his replacement bike  but shed
consider this again if any new information was provided.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said Advantage didnt  allow Mr Hs NCD at renewal in April 2019. So
Advantage hadnt done what it said it would do to put things right.  She said the new insurer
told her the reason why it cancelled Mr Hs policy was because he didnt tell it about the fault
claim.
Our investigator explained that as Advantage had confirmed its allowance  of the NCD in its
final response letter, she thought this was sufficient. The cancellation  letter from the new
insurer  provided  by Mrs R - only confirmed that it intended to cancel Mr Hs policy  because
hed failed to reply to its queries. So this wasnt enough to give a view that Advantage was
responsible for the cancellation.
Mrs R didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2019. I thought Advantage 
should do more  to put things right. I thought  Advantage should  do the following:
Provide Mr H with a letter explaining  that it failed  to tell him it received a claim
from a third party following an incident his representative reported  in July 2018.
Confirm that it hasnt  recorded a cancellation on any internal and external
databases for the policy it cancelled after renewal in April 2019  so that Mr H doesnt 
need to declare it to future insurers.
Pay Mr H £220 compensation in addition  to the £130 its already paid for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs R didnt agree. In my provisional decision I said Mr H made a claim to the Motor  Insurers  
Bureau (MIB) for his losses following police advice. Mrs R said her son wasnt  able to make a 
claim to the MIB as Advantage had recorded  the claim  as a fault claim. She said Advantages 
failure to properly investigate the claim caused  her son financial loss and stress.
Mrs R said her sons bike never touched  the insured car as his bike was wedged  under the 
uninsured car.
Advantage said the claim remains  open. It asked Mr H in May and June 2019 to complete  and 
return an accident report form. But it hasnt  received  it and Mr Hs mother  asked it not to contact 
Mr H. 
It can provide a letter to confirm it hasnt recorded  the cancellation of the policy in April 2019. But 
it believes the investigators recommended increase in compensation to £250  was fair. Its asked 
if anything has changed in light of my recommendation to increase the total award  to £350.
Its provided a recording  of the call between it and Mrs R in November 2018. In this call, Mrs R 
said that her sons bike hit the parked  car (the insured car) due to the collision  with the uninsured 
car. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22375133We asked Advantage  for additional information since the investigator  issued  her view.
Advantage has told us that in an attempt to resolve Mr Hs complaint in December 2018, it
would record the claim as a non fault claim and allow Mr Hs NCD. It confirmed this to Mr H
when it replied to his complaint.
However, its renewal documents which it sent to Mr H in April 2019 showed Mr Hs NCD had
reduced from two years  to zero. Advantage says this is an error. The document also said
that Mr Hs incident  history hadnt been  affected.  Advantage  says this is correct.
However, Advantage goes on to say that at the time when Mr H bought a policy elsewhere 
before December 2018  the claim was open and was being investigated. Therefore it had
correctly been  recorded as an open fault claim and Mr Hs NCD was disallowed. Advantage
said Mr Hs new insurer cancelled his policy because he didnt tell it about the claim.
I dont know exactly what question Mr H was asked  by his new insurer  about his incident
history  or how he answered. Some insurers ask a consumer to tell it about all incidents,
irrespective of whether  a claim  was made  or not. So I cant make a finding  against
Advantage as to whether  its responsible for the cancellation or not. But, I think Advantages
failure to communicate  with Mr H or Mrs R at all about the third party claim after she reported
the incident has  in my view  had an impact.
Advantage didnt  tell Mr H that it was dealing with a claim from a third party.  It didnt update
Mr H at all once Mrs R reported the incident. It was for Advantage to tell Mr H so that he was
aware and could provide information to the best of his knowledge to any future insurer.
Misrepresentation can have significant  consequences which  include  having a policy voided
and/or having  a claim rejected.
Advantage said it renewed  Mr Hs policy in April 2019 because although it knew hed been
involved in an incident, it didnt know if his bike had been scrapped or sold.  Its told us it
cancelled the policy after renewal and Mr H wasnt charged.
If Advantage had dealt  with the claim correctly,  it would have written to Mr H after Mrs R
reported the incident and asked for information  from him to help carry out its investigation.
And it would have updated  him when it received  and intended  to settle  a third party
claim. It would have been aware that Mr Hs bike had been scrapped.  So it wouldnt have
sent renewal documents in April 2019  which caused further confusion.  It has asked Mr H
to complete an accident report  form in May 2019   this is almost  a year after the incident 
and six months after it upheld his complaint. 
Its standard in the insurance industry  for claims where an insurer hasnt been  able to
recover all of their costs  to be recorded as a fault claim. Where all the costs are recovered,
the claim is recorded as a non fault claim. In other words recovered is a non fault claim -
non recovered is a fault claim. This doesnt  necessarily mean that the consumer  was at
fault for the incident  but its how the industry records claims.  A fault claim will have a
negative impact on a customers NCD unless its been protected.
So  if Advantage had correctly dealt with the claim  until its able to recover its costs from
the at fault party  it will correctly record the open claim as a fault claim on internal and
external databases.
Ref: DRN22375134But Advantage didnt tell Mr H about  the claim, so he wasnt  aware. This was unreasonable
of Advantage.  And I think its caused further  confusion by telling Mr H it would deal with the
claim as a non fault claim and allow his NCD. Weve checked  CUE recently. The incident is
still showing  as a fault claim and the NCD hasnt been allowed.
So other than paying Mr H compensation of £130,  I cant see any benefit to Mr H of
Advantages offer to treat the claim as a non fault claim  and allow his NCD. Because I cant
see that its done this. So I dont think its done enough to put things right.
I cant ask Advantage  to change how its recorded  the claim on CUE  as this appears to be
correct and in line with the industry for an open claim. Even if it had dealt with the claim
correctly, this outcome  would be as it is now. But I think Advantage should compensate Mr H
for the confusion caused by its poor communication.
And I think its failure to obtain any information  about  the incident  from Mr H until after
November 2018  was poor. I think it should provide a letter to Mr H to provide to future
insurers. This letter should explain that Advantage failed to tell Mr H about the third party
claim so he wasnt aware.
I think the error in its renewal documents caused  further confusion   and its clear from the
notes that Mrs R called Advantage a number of times when Mr Hs new insurer  said it
intended to cancel his policy in November  2018   as this was the first time they became
aware of the claim. I think Advantage provided  inaccurate information then and failed to call
Mrs R back when promised.
Once Mrs R reported  the incident, it was reasonable to expect Advantage as the insurer  to
correctly follow the claims  process.  I can understand why Mr H didnt contact Advantage
again once hed recovered.  His policy didnt provide cover for repairs  to his bike as he was
insured on a third party basis  only. His mother had reported the incident  as required under the 
policy. Mr H had paid for his insurance  yearly. So he didnt contact Advantage to cancel the 
policy. From  what  Ive seen, Advantage couldnt  provide  insurance  for the replacement bike Mr H 
bought in any event.
I dont know if Advantage  will be able to successfully recover  the claim costs from the uninsured 
third party. Mr H will need to assist Advantage  with its investigation  by completing and returning 
the accident report form.
Overall I think  Advantages handling  of this claim has been very poor. Nothing has changed since 
the investigator issued  her view. Its my view that a fairer compensation award for Advantage to 
pay Mr H is a further £220, bringing  it to £350.  
When it closes the claim, it should promptly let Mr H know of the outcome.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I intend to ask Advantage
Insurance Company Limited  to do the following:
Provide Mr H with a letter explaining  that it failed  to tell him it received a claim
from a third party following an incident his representative reported  in July 2018.
Ref: DRN22375135Confirm that it hasnt  recorded a cancellation on any internal and external
databases for the cancelled policy in April 2019   so that Mr H doesnt need to
declare it to future insurers.
Pay Mr H £220 compensation in addition  to the £130 its already paid for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the
date on which we tell it Mr H accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax
from that interest, it should  tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237513