K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Miss K complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  them  a fixed  interest rate 
product for their mortgage.
background
Mr W and Miss K had an existing mortgage  with Barclays with a fixed interest rate product. 
They wanted  to move and increase their borrowing. The existing mortgage  product was 
ported to their new property. Barclays recommended that a 10 year fixed interest  rate 
product be taken for the increased  borrowing too. Mr W and Miss K say that this was not 
suitable and do not think they should have paid the related early repayment charge (ERC) 
on both products when  they later re-mortgaged. 
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that hed looked at 
the notes that the mortgage  advisor had made when selling  the mortgage. These indicate 
that the length of the term was discussed  and that Mr W and Miss K had no intention of 
moving. And that a shorter fixed rate would not give them as much peace  of mind about  their 
future payments. The ERC was fairly due when the mortgage was repaid. He noted Barclays 
had offered to pay them  £50 for sending an acknowledgment of their complaint to their old 
address. He thought that offer was fair.
Mr W and Miss K did not agree. They said that they were asked leading  questions during the 
fact find to fit the recommendation the advisor  had wanted to make.  They were given the 
impression that they might  lose the product if they did not take it. And that they were told that 
they were lucky to get this rate and that it was somehow preferential. The pros and cons  
were not correctly explained  and nor was what would happen at the end of the term. The 
offer for the incorrectly addressed correspondence was a dismissive one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know our adjudicator let Mr W and Miss K know that Id requested  some more  information 
from Barclays. That was about  their existing mortgage at the time they took the new 
borrowing. Because that was on a fixed rate interest too and I wanted to know a bit more 
about that especially as part of the ERC  they paid related to this ported product.
Barclays provided me with a copy of their product switch application from July 2014.  That 
was made  when an initial fixed rate on their mortgage over five years was due to expire. 
They then took a 10 year fixed interest  rate product at 3.99% to 30 September 2024. Theyd 
cancelled an earlier application  for a similar  product switch the previous month. Ive seen the 
notes of the discussion they had with Barclays. It was noted by the advisor that dealt with 
them that they wanted to keep outgoings  low while one of them was not working. As they had 
a young family they wanted stable  payments.  They wanted to be able to budget.  The notes 
also recorded that they felt that having a shorter term would impact  you if you were to re-
mortgage in 2/3/5 years as you feel interest rates would be higher.... This information 
formed the basis for the recommendation  for the 10 year fixed interest rate product they took.
Ref: DRN22140582About a year later theyd decided to borrow more  to buy a new property. Ive reviewed the 
notes then made by the mortgage advisor  at Barclays on the fact find. These  record that they 
still wanted long term stability.  The property they were buying was described as their forever 
home. It was stated that any mortgage  term shorter than 10 years  would not give them  the 
peace of mind they wanted. They also wanted  to port the existing mortgage product and did 
not then want  to pay an ERC to redeem that. Their intention was to continue  to fix the rate on 
the mortgage for long periods. The ERC  was set out to them.  Mr W and Miss K confirmed 
those notes when  they made the application  and that theyd been given the opportunity to 
review the details. They took the new borrowing with the product recommended to them  which 
had a fixed interest rate of 2.99% until 30 June 2025. And the recommendation was also that 
the existing mortgage product was ported to the new property.
I know that they since decided to move  again. Mr W and Miss K told our adjudicator  that they 
paid the ERC and took additional  borrowing  with another lender to cover this. Theyve 
explained that the term of their new mortgage  is lower and the payments have remained 
about the same. I understand that but I am looking at the positon  when  they took the 
mortgage with Barclays. I cant  know exactly what was said in a meeting they had with the 
Barclays advisor and, for example, what they were told about  how long an interest  rate might 
be available.  I do consider Mr W and Miss K had the reasonable opportunity to review  
whether what had been recorded was correct. There is nothing  from the evidence  Ive seen 
that supports  the complaint that what was recommended to them did not reflect their stated 
needs and was mis-sold  to them.  
Barclays offered to pay them £50 for not addressing a complaint acknowledgement letter 
correctly. I think  that was a reasonable response  and I know  that they are going to be 
disappointed when  I say that I am not going  to be asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank UK Plc 
need do no more  than its offered to and which is to pay Mr W and Miss K £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2214058