K821x#15complaint
Mr I says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 15 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr I between  September  
2017 and September 2018. Mr I borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £500. The 
loans were to be repaid  in six monthly  instalments. The loan repayments overlapped so that 
Mr I was expected to repay amounts  ranging from about £91 to £401  a month. Mr I repaid  all 
his loans. 
Sunny made an offer of redress  in line with our recommendations  for loans 14 and 15. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Is complaint in part and thought the loans from loan six onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny didnt reply to the adjudicators  view,  so the complaints 
come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr I could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN27042852Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
Sunny asked Mr I for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out credit  
checks. He said he earned £1,700 a month for all his loans. Mr I said his expenditure ranged 
between £586  and £988 a month. This included essential expenditure, rent and credit  
commitments. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Is 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr I provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr I was saying. Mr I looked to have  sufficient disposable income to 
comfortably repay loans one and two. So I cant say Sunny was wrong to approve loans one 
and two. 
But for loans three to five, I think the pattern of Mr Is borrowing should  have prompted 
Sunny to ask for further information to check that Mr I could sustainably  repay  his loans.  For 
loans three  and four, I think Sunny should have asked Mr I about  his other short-term 
lending commitments. And for loan five I think it should then have looked to verify what  Mr I 
told it to ensure he could  sustainably  repay his loan.   
Mr I hasnt provided us with information about his expenditure  at the time of his borrowing 
from Sunny. So I cant safely say what better checks would have  found.  And so I cant say 
Sunny was wrong to have approved loans three to five. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr I, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Is case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
By loan six, Mr I had borrowed six loans in two months and I think this was a sign that 
hed become persistently reliant on short-term  loans.
 
From  loan six onwards Mr I was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling a 
previous one. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr I was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Is indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN27042853Mr I wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  15 was taken  
out 12 months after Mr Is first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr I had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
I think that Mr I lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Is indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Is ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans six onwards  and Sunny should  put things right. 
Sunny offered redress for loans 14 and 15, but I dont think  this goes far enough in the 
circumstances. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr I paid on loans 6 to 15;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loans  6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 15 should be removed from Mr Is credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Is complaint. 
I require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr I compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2704285