K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H bought the policy in connection  with a credit card that she took out some time between
1995 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account  at 
the same  time as Mrs H applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs H applied for her card some time between 1995 and 2000 and its possible that 
she bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds  doesnt know  for sure if this is the case. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its 
most likely Mrs H bought the PPI at the same time as applying for her credit  card.
I think its likely  that Lloyds made Mrs H aware  the PPI was optional  and she chose 
to take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales processes  
between 1995  and 2000, Mrs H wouldve had to actively select the PPI on her credit 
card application  form.  On balance, I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the 
PPI to Mrs Hs account if she hadnt  chosen  to take it out.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mrs H, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs H says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her 
employer benefits, and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think  the policy 
wouldve been useful  to Mrs H if she was off work  sick.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs H would have been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had 
a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information  wouldve  stopped  her buying 
it.
Ref: DRN21219622my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2121962