K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that her replacement boiler   supplied through her gas central  heating  
breakdown insurance  policy with Aviva Insurance Limited  doesnt adequately heat her 
home.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents  and claims handlers.  
background
Miss T has a policy that provides cover  against  gas central heating breakdown which  is 
underwritten by Aviva.
In April 2018 Miss Ts boiler stopped  working.  An engineer attended  and confirmed that the 
boiler was beyond economical repair.  The policy provides  that in these  circumstances Aviva  
will meet the cost of a replacement boiler,  but Miss T is liable for the cost of installation.  
This was agreed and a few days later Aviva installed a new boiler.  Miss T complained  that 
the boiler didnt  seem  to be as effective as the old one. An engineer  re-attended and 
confirmed the boiler  was correctly installed and was working as it should.  Aviva provided 
their final response to the complaint in June 2018 which  didnt uphold  it. They  offered some  
advice about use of the thermostat but explained the boiler was suitable and working as it 
should.  
Being unhappy with this Miss T referred her complaint  to our service. Ultimately,  our 
investigator concluded that Aviva had acted fairly and in line with the policy  terms. So she 
didnt recommend that they needed to do more. 
Miss T disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. So Im not upholding it or asking Aviva  to do 
more. Let me explain why. 
Miss Ts policy says: If the boiler is deemed beyond economical  repair  and is 7 years  or 
older, we will source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the 
installation costs The new boiler  will provide the same  heating and hot water requirements 
as your existing boiler and will match your existing type of boiler
As Miss Ts original  boiler was around 12 years old and the engineer deemed it to be beyond 
economical repair, I think this policy term applies.  What is in dispute in this case is whether 
or not the new boiler provides the same heating and hot water requirements  as the original 
boiler. 
Aviva say the hot water heating and requirements refers to a boiler suitable for the size of 
the house and the number of radiators. The original  boiler had a higher Kilowatt (KW) rating 
for heating  output  than the new boiler.  But Aviva have pointed  out that modern boilers are 
more efficient, so can achieve the same results using less energy. Aviva also had an area 
manager attend Miss Ts house. His report said:
Ref: DRN23845542The boiler is working properly the flow and return to and from the boiler is correct with a 18 
degree drop,  the radiator in the lounge is only reaching 66 degrees  which  would suggest to 
me a pipework problem,  the existing radiators are designed to give out 8694 BTUs the room 
requires 11,863 BTUs... my recommendation would  be to change the two radiators  and 
valves and flush out the system...
Aviva further  explained that issues with pipework or replacement radiators arent something 
the policy provides  cover  for. 
Throughout the course of our investigation  Aviva said that if Miss T provided an independent  
report, which concluded the boiler  isnt suitable for the size of her property  and is the 
reason for the radiators in the lounge not heating up sufficiently  then they would take that 
into account and reimburse the cost of the report.  I think this is fair and reasonable. But 
Miss T hasnt provided any such  report.  
Our service arent experts in plumbing  or heating,  we rely on the evidence  presented  to us. 
And whilst I dont doubt Miss Ts testimony  that she thinks the house feeling cooler is a 
consequence of the replacement boiler,  I find the report  from the area manager to be more 
persuasive. And the online  checks Ive made  myself indicate that the boiler supplied is 
suitable for a house with three to four bedrooms  and up to 10 radiators. Miss Ts home has 
three bedrooms and eight  radiators. And so taking everything into consideration, I think  the 
boiler Aviva supplied does  meet the terms of the policy. 
The policy says the replacement boiler  will provide the same requirements as the existing 
boiler. The requirements that the boiler  is providing (in the context of central heating) is the 
needs relative to the size of the house and the number of radiators. It doesnt refer to a like 
for like replacement or one of the same  specifications.  So in the circumstances specific  to 
this complaint, Im satisfied Aviva have provided  a boiler in line with the policy  terms and I 
consider this to be fair. 
I understand this wont be the outcome Miss T was hoping  for. But I think  Aviva have 
handled this claim  in line with the policy terms and fairly. So Im not recommending  that they 
need to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2384554