K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited shouldnt  have agreed  to lend to her under a 
conditional sale agreement. She says the agreement was unaffordable.
background
Mrs R entered into a conditional sale agreement  in January 2015 so that she could obtain a 
used car. The cash  price of the car was £13,660. The agreement  was for 60 months with a 
total repayable  of around £24,000.  Mrs Rs monthly repayments were  a little over £400 each 
month. 
Mrs R says Moneybarn didnt do enough  to check that she could afford  to repay  the 
agreement. She says she couldnt afford her existing car finance agreement which was 
around £100 cheaper each month.  She says Moneybarn should have seen that shed  had 
several defaults and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recently. She said she was also in 
arrears on her council tax and utility  bills and had taken  out lots of payday loans and other 
high interest lending.
Moneybarn says it checked Mrs Rs credit file and bank statements that Mrs R supplied 
during the application. It said these didnt highlight any concerns about affordability. Mrs R 
said the bank  statements  the broker asked her to supply werent for her personal current  
account  they were  for her business.  She says the broker told her to do this as it would 
show greater income and affordability. Moneybarn said it couldnt  have known  they were  her 
business account statements as the statements  were in her name,  not in the name of a 
business. 
I sent Mrs R and Moneybarn my provisional  decision  on 13 January 2020. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. I said Moneybarn  was required to follow the rules 
and guidance  set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). An extract of my provisional findings follows:
CONC says that lenders  need to carry out checks to ensure  any lending it gives  is affordable 
and sustainable  for the borrower.  This is often referred to as an affordability  check.  This 
check should be borrower-focussed. This means Moneybarn needed to think  about whether 
Mrs R could afford the borrowing, not just how statistically likely she was to repay  it back.
The thoroughness  of the checks Moneybarn carried out needed to be proportionate to the 
situation. In deciding what was proportionate Moneybarn  ought to have considered the 
following (but not limited  to):
The size and duration of the loan;
The overall cost of the borrowing  and the size of the repayments; and
Mrs Rs personal  circumstances.
This loan was for five years with a total repayable of around £24,000. I think this was a 
significant commitment for Mrs R. The monthly  repayments were also over £400. This was a 
large proportion  of Mrs Rs declared  £1,700 monthly  income.  So I think the thoroughness  of 
the check Moneybarn  carried out ought to have reflected the significant  commitment Mrs R 
would be undertaking over a relatively long period  of time. 
To assess whether  Mrs R could sustainably  afford  to repay  the loan Moneybarn  says it 
reviewed her bank statements and completed  a credit check. It says the credit check  didnt 
Ref: DRN20560222highlight or indicate  any financial  hardship.  Weve asked Moneybarn to provide us with the 
data it received from the credit check, but it says this isnt available. This means I cant  be 
sure what  information Moneybarn reviewed in order to assess  Mrs Rs current  financial 
position  other than the bank statements she supplied. 
Mrs R has provided us with a copy of her credit report. So in the absence  of anything  from 
Moneybarn to show what data they saw, I think its reasonable  to conclude the information 
contained in the report Mrs R has supplied was likely to be available  to Moneybarn.  
The credit report shows a number of concerning entries which  should  have highlighted  to 
Moneybarn that it was likely Mrs R was in financial hardship. In May 2014, Mrs R had a CCJ 
issued against  her for a debt of around  £5,500. One month later she defaulted on a credit 
account leaving an outstanding balance of around £2,000. 
It appears Mrs R had been struggling financially  since at least 2011. She had defaulted with 
more than one utility provider in 2012 and 2013, indicating  her financial problems were quite 
severe. I say this because  she was clearly unable to meet  her essential living costs. All of 
this information  was available on her credit  file. There were  also a number of defaults for 
various payday loans between  2011  and 2013.  
Although the majority of the defaults had happened more than a year before the Moneybarn 
agreement, arguably  one of the most significant  entries (the CCJ)  was very recent. There 
was also a recent default for quite a large  amount. This ought to have highlighted to 
Moneybarn that Mrs R was likely  to be struggling  financially. It ought  to have prompted it to 
ask more thorough  questions  about her income and expenditure before agreeing to lend.  
Moneybarn did have  sight of some bank statements that Mrs R provided  as part of her 
application. But it appears all Moneybarn was concerned with was verifying how much 
income she had. I say this because  that appears to be the only figure its input into its 
affordability calculation. It has also simply relied on the fact that the monthly repayments 
were less than 25% (but only just) of her monthly income to indicate the agreement was 
affordable to her.
Moneybarn says it couldnt have known the statements Mrs R provided were  for her 
business. But I dont  think that makes a difference. I say this because there were a number  
of reasons why on reviewing the statements Moneybarn ought  to have questioned Mrs Rs 
financial position more.  
I say this because  it was clear Mrs R was transferring regular and sometimes  fairly large 
sums of money between  this account  and another one. There were also no typical 
transactions that youd reasonably expect to see from someones  main current  account. For 
example:
Mrs R had declared she was renting, but there was nothing to indicate she was 
paying rent. 
She had said she was employed  full-time  (and not that she was self-employed), but 
there was nothing to show  she was receiving a regular  salary.  
In addition to this, each month Mrs R didnt have anywhere near the required £400 available  
to pay for the proposed agreement. There were also several direct debits and standing  
orders set up to pay numerous different debt collection companies. And there was nothing to 
indicate she was paying expected bills like utilities or council tax. So I think this showed that 
Ref: DRN20560223these statements didnt  give an accurate picture  of Mrs Rs financial position. But crucially  it 
also showed that she was still repaying  lots of different  debts and appeared to only be able 
to afford relatively small repayments to each of them. This combined  with what Moneybarn  
ought to have seen from its credit  check,  would have shown Mrs R was likely to be in 
financial difficulty. 
For these reasons I dont  think  Moneybarn carried out a reasonable or proportionate check  
on Mrs Rs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This means that before agreeing  to 
lend to Mrs R, I think  Moneybarn  ought to have asked more  detailed questions about  her 
income and expenditure. 
I cant know what further information Moneybarn would have asked. However,  Ive reviewed 
Mrs Rs current  account bank statements for her other account. In the absence of anything 
else, I think this gives a good indication of what information Moneybarn  would  most  likely 
have found out had it carried  out a proportionate  check. 
These do show that Mrs R also held a part-time  job as well as running her own business. As 
Moneybarn has said, this means Mrs Rs income was actually greater than shed declared 
during her application.  This account  also details typical  essential expenditure such as food, 
utility bills, insurance and other credit  commitments. Just like the other account statements it 
too has several direct debits and standing orders set up to repay debt collection companies. 
These were  also for generally low amounts. 
Moneybarn says the statements show Mrs R had an additional £1,000 to spend. But 
I disagree. There are two statements which cover the period of November  2014  to 
January 2015.  During this time Mrs R paid in around  £4,500  and she paid out around  
£4,500. Further,  £1,000  of that income  Mrs R has told us was from a successful PPI claim 
that she made , so a large proportion of the income  on those statements wasnt  regular  
income she could  rely on. 
From reviewing her personal and business  statements  its clear  Mrs R was struggling to meet 
all of her regular financial commitments and essential bills. She frequently transferred money  
between the two accounts to try to avoid  going  overdrawn  and was only able to make small 
token repayments  towards numerous existing debts. So I think  had Moneybarn carried out a 
proportionate assessment  of Mrs Rs ability  to sustainably  repay,  I think its likely it would 
have discovered  this too. For this reason I dont think it made a reasonable lending  decision. 
Moneybarn says Mrs R should  have been in a good position (given the nature of her 
business) to assess whether she could afford the borrowing. But regardless  of what  Mrs Rs 
profession was, that doesnt absolve Moneybarn of its responsibilities  in ensuring it doesnt 
lend irresponsibly. It was required  to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks and for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think it did. And had it carried out proportionate checks, 
I dont think it ought to have lent to Mrs R. 
Ive therefore  gone  onto consider what a fair remedy would be. Mrs R voluntarily 
surrendered the car in April 2016.  The agreement was later defaulted and the car was sold 
at auction for £9,300. The sale proceeds  were taken off what Mrs R owed under the 
agreement. 
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think  its fair for it to 
be able to charge  any interest or charges  under the agreement. But Mrs R did have use of 
the car for around  15 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN20560224that monthly repayments  of over £400  a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would 
be. This is because a significant proportion of those repayments went  towards repaying 
interest.
There isnt an exact formula  for working  out what a fair monthly repayment would be to 
reflect Mrs Rs usage. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought  about  the 
amount of interest  charged on the agreement, Mrs Rs likely overall usage of the car and 
what her costs to stay mobile  would likely have been if she didnt have this car. In doing so 
I think a fair amount  Mrs R should pay is £200 for each month she had use of the car. This 
means Moneybarn  can only ask her to repay  a total of £3,000. 
If Mrs R has already paid back more than £3,000, Moneybarn should treat any excess  shes 
paid as an overpayment. It should  then refund those overpayments to Mrs R, adding 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. As 
Mrs R shouldnt have been given the borrowing, it isnt fair for her to have any adverse 
information recorded on her credit  file about  this debt.  Moneybarn should therefore  arrange 
to remove any adverse data. 
Mrs R accepted my provisional  decision.  Moneybarn thought appropriate  affordability  checks 
were carried  out when the agreement was entered into. But it said it wasnt able to provide 
any further information or comments. And it agreed  to accept the provisional  decision as it 
didnt think it would  be in Mrs Rs best interests  to prolong the issue further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information or comments for me to consider,  I see no reason to come  to a different 
conclusion to what I reached in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
Cancel the agreement, ensuring  Mrs R only has to repay  a total of £3,000.
If Mrs R has already  paid more than £3,000 towards the agreement, any 
overpayment shes made  should be refunded to her, adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse  data from Mrs Rs credit  file.
If Moneybarn  considers tax should be deducted  from the interest part of my award,  it should  
provide Mrs R with a certificate showing how much its taken off. She can then reclaim  that 
amount, assuming she is eligible  to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2056022