K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Miss H says Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Santander made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Santander  
says that PPI was never a requirement for a mortgage. I note that the policy was taken 
out on the phone about 7 years after the mortgage was initially  taken out. So it would 
have been clear that PPI wasnt a requirement  of that mortgage. Ive also seen a later 
mortgage application dated  June  2003  which presents the PPI as optional and provides 
two equally clear  options to take or refuse PPI  here Miss H has indicated that she has 
already applied for cover.  And my understanding of Santanders  sales  process is that 
PPI would have  been presented as optional during the phone call and would only have 
been applied  to the account if Miss H chose  to take this out. The above  information and 
evidence appears to support this.
 Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss H so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
 Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:  
When the policy was sold,  Santander  got a high level of commission and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  
Santander didnt  tell Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said - including what she has said about her 
existing employee  benefits and savings.  I appreciate  Miss H has had to go to some  lengths 
to get this information.  But these  points dont change my decision. The PPI would have paid 
Ref: DRN28959882out in addition to Miss Hs sick pay and savings. Also Miss Hs sick pay would have  been  
reduced to half for the second  six months whereas the policy  would have continued to pay 
the full amount of benefit for 12 months. I also note that Miss H did have savings  at the time 
of the sale but it looks like the bulk of the immediately available  savings were earmarked for 
a property. So I think the PPI would still have  been  suitable for Miss H in these particular 
circumstances. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2895988