K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco)  charged  him handling fees for 
making two transactions when he used his credit card on 26 June 2018. Mr O is also 
unhappy that he was charged  interest  on the transaction amounts as well. 
Tesco says it changed its terms  and conditions about how the credit  card operates  and sent 
out a notice of variation to its customers.  Mr O says he did not receive notice of these 
changes. 
background
Mr O has a Tesco Clubcard credit  card and has previously used it to make payments to 
other credit cards without  incurring any charges. In 2018 Tesco changed its terms and 
conditions so that a 3.99% cash handling  fee would apply for a range of transactions,  
including repaying  borrowing   which would now be classed as a cash  transaction. These 
changes came into effect from 1 June  2018.  
Mr O made  two payments  to other  credit  cards on 26 June 2018,  and on 27 June  2018  he 
was charged £42.78  and £47.88  for these transactions. Interest of £33.46  was also charged 
to the account  on 26 July 2018 due to cash withdrawals and cash transactions.  
After seeing these charges online, Mr O says he contacted Tesco to enquire and challenge 
the charges. Tesco looked into and declined Mr Os complaint, and following this Mr O 
requested a copy of the Changes to your Tesco Bank Credit card agreement document.  
Mr O says after looking through the document,  he thought the wording used by Tesco when 
talking about repaying borrowing was ambiguous as it didnt specifically refer to the 
repayment of credit  card debt. 
Mr O says he is seeking a refund of the above  mentioned charges and interest. Mr O cleared  
the credit  card balance  on 20 July 2018  to avoid  further interest charges, so he is also 
seeking the interest he would have earned on this sum had he been able to leave it in his 
Tesco internet  saver  account. Mr O says he would have earned  interest  of £2.60 over 31 
days. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and concluded that Tesco  had sent Mr O details of the 
changes to the terms and conditions, and they said the terms were clear in explaining when  
the charges would apply. Mr O disagreed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked into whether Mr O was made aware  of the changes to his account before 
they were introduced. 
Ive considered what Mr O told us about approaching Tesco after seeing  the transactions on 
his online  statements, and that this could go some  way to supporting that he wasnt  aware of 
the changes to the account; however, Ive also taken into account the submissions from 
Tesco which  support  that Mr O would have received details of these changes with his April 
Ref: DRN293704822018 statement. Tescos  records show Mr O received  information  online and through  the 
post, so I think he would most likely  have  been  able to access the information in question 
either online or in the post. 
Tesco has also said that customers  known  to be making similar transactions  to Mr O (that is, 
they were using the credit card to make payments to other creditors),  received an additional 
letter to again  highlight the upcoming  changes to the terms. Tescos records show  this 
supplementary letter was sent to Mr O on 21 May 2018. 
Of course,  its difficult for me to know for certain  what happened in that time-frame,  but it 
does seem to me that Tesco made  several  attempts to highlight the upcoming changes  to 
Mr O before they came into force. 
So for these reasons, I think Tesco did enough to bring the account changes  to Mr Os 
attention and I dont think this part of Mr Os complaint succeeds. 
Ive next considered Mr Os concerns about  how clearly  the information  about the account 
changes was presented. 
The notice of variation Tesco sent explains a 3.99% handling fee will apply from 1 June 2018 
on a range of transactions, including  those to repay borrowing. Tesco gives  loans and 
mortgages as examples  of types of borrowing that can attract the handling fee. 
I understand Mr O feels strongly that the wording Tesco has used is ambiguous because 
credit cards were not specifically cited,  but I think loans  and mortgages  were given as 
examples only and the intention was not to provide an exhaustive list of all the different types 
of credit that would fall under repaying borrowing. So I dont think the wording is unclear. 
And as Tesco  categorised  the repayment of borrowing as a cash  transaction,  this meant  
interest would  now be payable on those transactions as well. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O, but for the reasons  above, I dont  uphold  Mr Os complaint.  I 
think Tesco  took enough steps  to make Mr O aware  of the changes  that would  be made to 
his credit card account. And from what Ive seen  I dont  think the wording in the literature 
sent to explain  the changes was unclear.  It therefore follows  that I dont think  Tesco  should 
refund the charges and interest applied to the account, or pay Mr O an equivalent sum of 
interest to what he wouldve earned  in his saver account had he not taken the money out to 
repay the credit card. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 5 April 
2019.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2937048