K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that they werent  told they could buy home insurance elsewhere 
after remortgaging  with Skipton Building Society,  or of alternative available  policies. They  
believe they have  paid excessive premiums as a result.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  a policy  through Skipton in 2001 when remortgaging their home.  At the 
time they opted  to have a reduced rate mortgage on condition  that they took out their home 
insurance through Skipton. They  continued with the policy for five years  to get the benefit  of 
the reduced mortgage rate, but say they werent  told they were free to insure elsewhere after 
this. They  continued  with the policy until 2015. As the mortgage was due to be paid off, 
Mr and Mrs C looked for alternative insurance. Their latest price from Skipton  was £1,042. 
They found  policies  on price comparison websites for around £134. They asked for a quote 
from Skipton which came  out at £500.  Mr and Mrs C opted  to insure elsewhere for £155. 
They were  charged £10 plus interest for cancellation by Skipton.
Mr and Mrs C said they werent told at any time that they were only required to insure 
through Skipton for five years. They say they were  also not told of any alternative policies 
that Skipton  had available. 
On referral to this service  our adjudicator suggested  that Skipton pay £200 compensation 
which it agreed to. Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this. The case was reviewed again.  Our 
adjudicator then proposed that Skipton pay a further  £100 compensation for failing to advise 
about the availability of alternative  policies. She further said it should  refund half of the 
premiums as it had added the premium to the mortgage each year and added interest. 
Skipton disagreed; in particular it said the insurance  premium didnt have interest  added, and 
that Mr and Mrs C had bought a policy suitable  for their needs. But it confirmed it would pay 
the £200 originally proposed.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, as it appeared  that interest was added  to the 
mortgage only after the premiums were paid, no interest was added  to the premiums. And 
Mr and Mrs C were always up to date with their mortgage payments and premiums. I did 
take the view however  that Mr and Mrs C hadnt been properly informed about the end of the 
reduced rate mortgage period and of their rights to get insurance elsewhere.  As Skipton had 
an alternative policy available  I proposed  that from 2006 until 2014, Skipton refund, with 
interest, the difference in premiums between the policy Mr and Mrs C had, and the 
alternative policy.
I shall address both parties responses  in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
premiums and policy suitability
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN28127632Its difficult  to determine what advice was given to Mr and Mrs C in 2001,  so I cant  say for 
sure that they knew what the terms of having insurance through Skipton were. But we do 
have the original application  form which they both signed. The form indicates  that they chose 
Home and Contents Insurance as this was the most suitable for their needs. The form says 
is the advice accepted? and the box is ticked Yes. The form does set out an alternative 
tick box for the Homeplan insurance,  which in 2014 was half the price  of the insurance they 
opted for.
I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs C opted  to have insurance through Skipton  so they 
could take advantage of a reduced  mortgage rate. They say they werent told of the 
alternative policy. It does appear though that in subsequent years they were advised that the 
policy was most suitable for their needs. And in 2005 they applied  for a further advance on 
the mortgage. The suitability of the policy was discussed. The form signed  by Mr and Mrs C 
says Why  suitable. The adviser noted that Mr and Mrs [C] already  have  our most 
comprehensive household insurance. Buildings  and Contents Plus.  So I have recommended  
they stay with this policy  
Later renewal notices have the following wording You have  selected  this Policy because  
you require fully comprehensive protection for your mortgaged property and unlimited 
contents. I think its likely that, at least for the first five years  of the policy, Mr and Mrs C 
chose, on advice, the most suitable  policy for their needs, tied to a mortgage at a preferential 
rate. Whilst another policy might have  been available, I dont think  its likely that it would 
have suited them or indeed that they would have  switched to it given the mortgage rate link 
to their existing product.
From the 2006 renewal  onwards the letters advising of the new premium each year didnt 
refer to the fact that Mr and Mrs C no longer  needed to keep their policy  with Skipton. The 
2001 form says has the level of cover and the minimum  period for which  this cover must be 
maintained been explained? and the box is ticked Yes. But I dont think  that was sufficient. 
I bear in mind that Skipton  had cheaper  insurance  products available, and that Mr and Mrs C 
could, from 2006  have insured elsewhere.  So, I think it should  have been explicitly advised  
to Mr and Mrs C that they didnt have to maintain the current policy with Skipton. . At the very 
least, they should have  been told that at the expiry of the mortgage rate link period (in 2006) 
and reminded periodically thereafter.
My findings  initially  stated that in 2002 Mr and Mrs C had a diamond ring added to their 
policy. And that Skipton had told us this wasnt available for the cheaper policy.  It now 
appears that Skipton made an error  in telling  us this, which is unfortunate. It appears that 
there was no item added to the policy in 2002.  But that the premium  did increase that year 
as a result  of an increased valuation following Mr and Mrs C obtaining a further advance 
from Skipton. I have seen  the letter written to Mr and Mrs C at the time, so I can confirm that 
they were advised  of this. And as the rebuilding cost of the property had increased, Skipton 
acted reasonably in saying  the premium had to increase.
interest on premiums
In my provisional decision I said:
Our adjudicator has referred to the fact that the insurance premium was added to the 
mortgage account each year and that Mr and Mrs C would have had interest at the mortgage 
rate added to the policy premium each year. Skipton have told us that that isnt the case. 
And from the mortgage statements it appears that the premium  is paid in monthly 
Ref: DRN28127633instalments and the annual premium added to the mortgage at the end of the year. So as 
long as the premium  instalments were kept up to date, no interest  was added.  And Ive seen  
no evidence that Mr and Mrs C didnt  keep their mortgage and insurance premiums  up to 
date. So it wouldnt be appropriate to reduce the premiums because  of this.
Neither party has commented on this so my provisional findings  remain  the same,  and are 
now final.
remedy
In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered  what the most appropriate  remedy for Mr and Mrs C not being advised  
that they didnt  need  to keep their insurance  with Skipton is. For the policy  renewals up until 
2006, I think they had the most  suitable  policy and were advised  of this. From 2006 until 
2014 I think they should have been told they didnt need to keep their policy  with Skipton. 
And that Skipton had other cheaper  policy options available.  Bearing in mind  that they 
continued to be advised that the policy best suited their needs, I think that Skipton should  
refund to Mr and Mrs C 40% of the difference between the premiums for the policy they had 
and the premiums they would have paid for the Homeplan policy.  It should add simple 
interest* at 8% a year from the date they paid each monthly instalment until the date it 
repays them.
If Skipton  can no longer  calculate what that alternative policy  would have cost,  it should tell 
me when  it responds  to this provisional  decision.  If thats the case  I will likely require that the 
cost of that policy for each year be assumed to be 50% of the premium that Mr and Mrs C 
actually paid for that year  which was the approximate difference between what they were 
paying at the end and the price  of the Homeplan  policy. So if Mr and Mrs Cs premium was 
£100, Id assume  that the alternative would have cost them £50 and the award would be 
40% of £50 (i.e. £20) plus interest on that sum from when it was paid until settlement.
Mr and Mrs C were charged  a fee of £10 plus interest to cancel the policy.  Skipton should 
refund this.
I did consider whether  the fact that there was no ring added  to their policy  makes a 
difference to this calculation. Skipton did tell us that adding the ring would only have  been  
possible with the more expensive policy. But I think that taking all the other factors  into 
account concerning  whether the policy best suited their needs, the proposed remedy  is still 
appropriate.
Skipton hasnt come back to me to say that it cant calculate the back  premiums for the 
Homecare policy, so I shall assume that it can. The above alternative  method of calculation 
should only be applied  in the event  that Skipton cant calculate those premiums.  
compensation
In my provisional decision I noted  that we previously  said Skipton should  pay £200 
compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused. I didnt think it was appropriate to 
increase that, so thought  it should remain at £200.That remains  my view.
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN28127634my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Skipton Building  Society to:
refund  to Mr and Mrs C 40% of the differences between the premiums they paid for 
their policy  and the premiums that would have been payable  for the Homeplan 
policy for the 2006 to 2014  renewals  inclusive together with simple interest* at 8% a 
year from the date they paid each monthly instalment until the date it repays them. 
Only in the event  that the Homeplan  policy premiums  can no longer be calculated,  
should Skipton  substitute the Homeplan  premiums  with 50% of the actual premium 
that Mr and Mrs C paid for each of the relevant years when calculating  the refund as 
Ive set out above and in my provisional decision.
refund  the charge for cancelling the policy  (including any interest).
pay to Mr and Mrs C £200  for the inconvenience  and upset caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Skipton Building Society to take tax off any interest it 
pays to Mr and Mrs C. Should Mr and Mrs C request it, Skipton Building  Society  should  give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off so they can reclaim it if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Ray Lawley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2812763