K820x#14complaint
Miss E and Mrs E complain about the poor service they received from Santander UK Plc on 
a number of issues.
  
background
Miss E and Mrs E had a joint account  with Santander. Miss E is unhappy with the 
information she received when  checking the balance  at a cash  machine.  She says it wasnt 
correct and didnt  show the available credit  accurately. 
Shes also unhappy with the information  provided  by Santander when she tried to recover  a 
payment for £15.38 using  the visa debit guarantee.  And Miss E said shes  been  unable to 
access telephone  banking using the password  she received  from the bank. Shed like to be 
given the correct information  about  the account.
Santander said itd listened to the calls with Miss E. It couldnt find where shed been advised 
all transactions  were authorised by Santander  and reflected in the balance. But it apologised 
if that was the information shed been  given.  Santander explained some transactions  werent  
reflected in the balance if the merchant  didnt request authorisation.
The bank could  see security details for online  banking had been sent to Miss E in March  and 
August 2017.  But they hadnt been used. And it couldnt be sure why Miss E hadnt been  
able to match the number when she spoke  to the bank. Santander  said it hadnt been  able to 
pursue the claim  about the disputed  transaction for £15.38  as it didnt fit the category of 
being a dispute. So it wouldnt be able to get the money back from the merchant.
Miss E and Mrs E werent satisfied with Santanders  response. So they contacted our 
service and our adjudicator looked  into the matter. He listened  to the call to Santander about 
the balance displayed at the cash machine.  And he felt the adviser  had explained why some  
payments werent  reflected in the balance immediately. 
He spoke to Santander about  the disputed transaction.  And it agreed to refund £15.38  as a 
gesture of goodwill. But he couldnt be sure whatd happened when Santander inputted  
Miss Es telephone  banking credentials. He could see Miss E had passed  the normal 
security processes afterwards. And Santander had sent new credentials in the post. So he 
felt that was a reasonable response.
Miss E didnt agree. She said the banks agent had either mis-entered her details or there 
was some other reason for the error. And she still didnt know  why Santander  had been  
unable to refund her disputed transaction. So shes asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss E is frustrated Santander hasnt been  able to provide specific  information about  
the problems shes experienced. So Ive looked  very carefully  at everything Miss E and 
Santander have  said to see whether the bank needs to do anything more  to put things right.  
Miss E has raised a number of issues so Ill deal with each in turn.
Ref: DRN23808112Miss E says the account doesnt always reflect the actual balance.  So Ive looked at how 
Santander deals  with transactions. Santander  says each  account effectively has two 
balances. The available balance shows how much  the customer has to spend.  And the 
current balance takes into account  any pending  debits.  
Most transactions debit an account  immediately.  So theyre reflected  equally in both 
balances. But in some  cases the bank has to rely on authorisation from merchants. The 
merchant checks if the account has enough  money  and puts a hold on the amount it wants.  
But if the transaction isnt processed  immediately  after authorisation it can affect the balance 
displayed on the account. There may be less available to spend  even  though the pending 
transaction hasnt  actually  displayed on the account.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss E and Mrs Es account. And it explains there 
can be a delay between  using a debit card and the time when it is taken from the account.  
And the amount spent may reduce the amount available for other payments. 
I can see Santander has agreed to credit  Miss E with £15.38  in relation to her disputed  
transaction as a gesture  of goodwill. And I think thats a fair response.  But she wants to 
know why the bank didnt try and recover her funds. Ive looked at the form Miss E submitted 
with details about her claim. And I can see Santander responded in September 2017.  It said 
it couldnt refund her claim  because the dispute wasnt covered by the dispute resolution 
process. 
The rules  relating to debit  disputes are quite  strict. At the time Miss E made  the disputed 
payment that type of transaction wasnt covered by the visa dispute  rules. And I wouldnt 
expect the bank to try and recover funds if it didnt feel it had any chance of success.
Miss E also had problems  with Santanders  telephone banking service. Shed been  sent a 
security number by post. But when she called  to discuss the account the number entered  
didnt match what Santander  had. Santander  says it isnt able to determine  why Miss E had 
problems confirming her credentials. The details sent in March and August 2017  hadnt been 
used. So it sent further details in December 2017  and February 2018. And I understand a 
new ID was issued in March 2018 and Miss E has been able to use that successfully. 
I do appreciate Miss E would like to know if her details were  entered incorrectly. But the role 
of this service is to see if Santander  has done  anything wrong. And if so what  it needs to do 
to put things right. I cant be sure why Miss E experienced problem confirming her details. 
Its not possible to tell exactly what was entered or why there was an issue. But I can see 
Santander sent new details on a number  of occasions. And I believe Miss E is now able to 
use the service. So I think  the bank has responded  fairly and tried to put things right.
I hope Ive been able to answer some  of Miss Es questions. Based on everything Ive seen I 
think Santander has dealt  with the complaint fairly. And I wont  be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E and Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2019.
Ref: DRN23808113Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380811