K820x#14complaint
Mr K says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  a Plus account packaged bank account to 
him in 2007 this account was renamed the Advance bank account in 2010. He has used a 
Claims Management Company (CMC) to raise  this complaint.
background
Our adjudicators looked at this complaint already and didnt think  HSBC  had mis-sold the 
packaged account. The CMC disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think  HSBC mis-sold the Advance  
account to Mr K. Id like to explain why I think thats the case.
Mr K had held a free account for a number  of years prior to this upgrade  and it is widely 
known and advertised that free accounts  are available  in the UK. So I think that Mr K 
wouldve known that free accounts were available and an option for him.
Mr K has said that he was invited into a branch  of HSBC for an account review and was 
asked to sign some documents which he did not understand. But he has not explained what  
it is he thought  he was agreeing to. I find it very unlikely  that he would agree to sign 
something without any explanation  of what he was signing  for. I also note that by this point 
Mr K had been in the UK for a number  of years so I think that either he would have largely 
been able to understand what he was agreeing to or wouldve asked for the documents to 
have been translated had he been  unable  to do so. I should also add that there is no record  
of Mr K being asked  to have an account  review  at this time.
I think that it is more likely that Mr K was aware  that he was agreeing to an account  that 
came with a number of benefits and that these benefits were  outlined to him prior to the sale 
to encourage  him to agree to the upgrade. It looks like Mr K benefitted from some of the 
main benefits - the fee free cash withdrawals and even  though  he says he had his own travel  
insurance I think he could  have chosen  to use the travel insurance that came  with the 
account had he wished to do so. And I also think that he couldve used other  benefits  like the 
travel insurance too. 
I accept that Mr K may not have  been  told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with but I cannot see anything specific that he was not told that I think  
wouldve altered  his decision to take out the account. So for these reasons, I dont think it 
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint
Ref: DRN29663122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2966312