K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr N under a hire purchase agreement with Startline that he 
signed in May 2018. The car was about  eight years  old and had been driven for more  than 
75,000 miles. Mr N complained to Startline in July 2018 because  the engine  management 
warning light was on and he said that there were issues with the cars brakes,  coil-spring and 
diesel particle filter. It arranged for the car to be inspected  by two independent experts but 
then didnt uphold  his complaint. The dealer  offered to pay £200 to Mr N as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr N wasnt satisfied with Startlines response so complained to this service.  And 
he paid £1,376.77 for the cars diesel particle  filter to be replaced  in June 2019.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr N 
raised the issue about the diesel particle  filter with Startline within two months and that he 
hadnt seen sufficient evidence to suggest that there wasnt a fault with it when the car was 
supplied to Mr N. So he considered that it would  be reasonable for Startline to reimburse  him 
for the repair cost of £1,376.77.
Startline has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that:
the car passed  an MOT test with no advisories in May 2018  and as part of the test 
the cars  emissions  were checked  and if there  was no diesel particle  filter or sections 
of it were missing it wouldve impacted the emissions;
the independent report suggests that internal sections of the filter have been 
removed  but it says that there  was no way to ascertain  when the filter was 
removed;
the filters a legal requirement which should be sufficient  grounds to support that the 
car did have a filter at the point of sale;
the cars  next MOT  wasnt due until May 2019  and by then Mr N had covered a 
further 19,566 miles; and
theres a discrepancy  between the quote  for the work and the amount  that Mr N was 
charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Startline, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr N was about 
eight years old, had been  driven  for more  than 75,000 miles and had a price of £7,499. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Mr N says that a brake warning light came on about  two weeks  after the car was supplied to 
him so he went to a garage for a diagnosis but it found that the diesel particle filter was 
Ref: DRN21053582clogged so he used  some additives. He says that the engine management warning light 
came on about a month later and he was told by the same garage that the filter was still 
clogged so he took the car to a manufacturers dealer because of the engine  management 
warning light. It said that it was caused by an issue with the diesel particle  filter.  So Mr N 
complained to Startline  about that  and other  issues. Startline arranged  for the car to be 
inspected by two independent experts.  Mr N had the cars coil springs replaced and the first 
expert said that they couldve  failed at anytime.  Im not persuaded that theres enough  
evidence to show that there was a fault with the cars coil-springs  or brakes when the car 
was supplied to Mr N.
Neither of the independent experts reports is conclusive about the cause of the issue with 
the engine management warning light and the diesel particle filter. But there doesnt seem  to 
be any doubt that there was an issue with the engine  management  warning light being on 
within about two months  of the car being  supplied to Mr N. And a manufacturers dealer has 
said that the warning  light was on because  of an issue with the diesel particle filter.
Mr N had the cars diesel  particle filter replaced  in June 2019 and he says that the repair has 
remedied the issue and that the engine management warning light is no longer on. He paid 
£1,376.77 for that repair and also paid £366.68  for an unrelated rear exhaust  box repair and 
£133.95 for oil and filters.
I consider that there was a fault with the diesel particle filter that was either present or 
developing when  the car was supplied to Mr N and which caused the engine management 
warning light to be on. And Im persuaded that its more  likely than not that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at that time because of that fault. So I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Startline to pay £1,376.77 to Mr N to reimburse him for the amount that he 
paid for the replacement  diesel particle filter. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to take any other action in response  to 
his complaint.
Ref: DRN21053583my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. And I order  Startline Motor 
Finance Limited  to pay £1,376.77 to Mr N to reimburse him for the repair cost that hes 
incurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2105358