K820x#14Complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) and the solicitors  it appointed to 
represent him regarding a motor accident claim hed made.  He feels the solicitors didnt 
appropriately defend him in court. 
Mr C has specifically made  the following points:
He never  had a feasibility check  done on the third partys witness statement;
The barrister appointed didnt use a comprehensive list to question the claimants 
witness statement when Ageas solicitor sent questions to the barrister;
Ageas  cannot  answer which witness statement was proven in court to be true and 
feels the whole truth was not allowed in court;  and
Ageas  never provided the barrister with all the information and because of this; he 
believes Ageas  has failed to provide him with fully comprehensive cover.
Background
Mr C was involved in a motor accident  in August 2016. He made a claim through  Ageas and 
it was settled with the third partys insurer on a 50/50 liability  basis. Settlement wasnt  
accepted by the third party and their insurer issued court proceedings. The trial date was set 
for 22 May 2018.  The Judge heard accounts  from both parties and Mr C was found to be 
100% liable for the accident. 
Mr C submitted a further complaint to Ageas  as he was unhappy  with the legal 
representation that had been arranged for him at court. Ageas issued its final response on 
5 June 2018. It said it didnt agree the matter had been dealt with inappropriately and that 
which led to the Judge concluding full liability on Mr C.
Our Investigator  looked  into the complaint and said he didnt think  it should be upheld.  He 
didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. It provided cover under the policy as it was 
required to do and provided appropriate legal  representation for Mr C. He also thought  the 
process followed by Ageas wasnt out of line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr C disagreed with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman  to make a decision. The 
complaint has therefore been passed  to me. 
He says while he has comprehensive cover and the court process  is about  speaking the 
truth, neither  of these  are evident as no-one went into the full detail to find out what  actually 
happened. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to confirm that Mr Cs complaint about how liability for the motor accident  was settled 
has been looked at under a separate complaint by this service. An Ombudsman has also 
issued a final decision on this matter. As such, I wont  be commenting on this point in my 
decision. 
Ref: DRN24825372Additionally, I appreciate  Mr C feels strongly about  how the claim has been settled and how 
Ageas has subsequently  dealt with the court  case. I can also see hes taken the time to 
provide a lot of information to us so Id like to reassure him while  I wont be responding to 
each and every point, I have read all his submissions. 
On this complaint,  the key issue for me to decide  is whether or not Ageas  has acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy when legal representation was provided  for Mr C. 
Ive referred first to the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy to see what cover  it provides.  
Under Section G  Liabilities to third parties it states:
 We will also pay
 any other costs and expenses for which we have given our written permission arising  
from an accident covered  under this policy
Its with this term in mind that Ageas sought  legal representation in court  for settling liability 
of the accident  between  Mr C and the third party. Ageas and its claims handlers are not 
legally trained and therefore I would expect to see that it appoints  a suitable  and legally 
qualified solicitor or barrister to represent Mr C in court.  
I can see that Mr C had a law firm represent  him which  is regulated and authorised  by the 
Solicitors Regulation Authority and the same  applies to the barrister  in charge of Mr Cs 
case. While  Mr C says that Ageas didnt provide all the information to the law firm, from the 
information I have  on file, I dont agree. Mr Cs points are written clearly on the court  
documents submitted at the hearing and further  documents were also provided in relation to 
the accident. So Im not persuaded that the law firm represented Mr C without having all the 
information. 
I understand Mr C wanted a feasibility check to be carried out by Ageas. I confirm  this issue 
is regarding how the claim itself was handled by Ageas and therefore relates  to the 
complaint he made previously to this service.  For completeness though,  I can see 
photographs of the damage  caused to the vehicle were available,  along with the engineers 
report. These showed that liability was inconclusive in regards to which party was liable and 
therefore further checks werent required  in the circumstances. 
Ultimately Ageas was required to ensure  that Mr C had fair and legal representation  at 
court.it was required to put Mr C in touch with a suitable and qualified solicitor  or barrister 
and I can see that this happened. I cant see that Ageas  made any failings  in what  it was 
required to do. While  Mr C isnt satisfied  with what was actually said in court and the 
eventual outcome, Im afraid this isnt an issue  that I can comment on. The Judge made a 
decision based on what was available and presented by both parties. I understand the 
Judge didnt rule in Mr Cs favour and this is disappointing for him but that doesnt mean it 
was because of anything Ageas did incorrectly. Many of the points raised by Mr C have been 
in relation to how the law firm or barrister conducted the case  and that isnt something  that 
we can consider here. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Ageas did take action in line with the requirements of the policy 
terms and conditions by obtaining legal representation for Mr C. I also dont think he was 
treated unfairly  or unreasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint and looking at the 
available evidence. It follows  that I dont find Ageas needs to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN24825373My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint against Ageas  Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482537