K821x#15complaint
Ms E has complained about  action taken  by The Co-operative Bank Plc in connection with 
her professional career development loan. In particular,  the loan was passed to debt 
collectors despite her being up to date with the payments she was required to make.
background
In 2016 Ms E took out a personal  career development loan with Co-op to provide her with 
funds while  she studying. She was due to start making repayments  under the loan in May 
2017 but she experienced severe medical problems that delayed her studies. Because of 
this Co-op gave her a new loan agreement under which the payments would commence in 
October 2017.
Ms E made the payments she was required to make  under the new loan but Co-op didnt 
amend its records. As a result of this Ms E received  a letter  from a debt collection agency  in 
November 2018  saying it had been instructed  by Co-op to make contact with her about the 
outstanding balance on the account.
Ms E complained to Co-op.  It upheld her complaint and paid her £250 compensation. She 
wasnt happy with Co-ops response and referred  her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. They thought  it was clear 
Ms E hadnt received  the level of service from Co-op to which she was entitled and it should 
increase the amount of compensation by £100.
Ms C didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.  She doesnt  think £350 is 
sufficient compensation.  Shes now repaid the loan in full.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E raised a number of issues in her complaint the main  one being that the loan had been 
passed to debt collectors. Co-op didnt uphold  all of her complaints. But Ive considered the 
final response it sent to Ms E and, apart  from the amount of compensation, I think  it was fair 
and reasonable.
I can understand why Ms E found it extremely distressing to receive a letter from debt 
collectors when shed been making  the payments  she needed to make. Co-op told her it 
could take the loan back from the debt collectors, but it wouldnt be able to re-open the 
account. I appreciate  why Ms E wasnt happy with this and why she decided  to repay the 
loan, in full. But Im not persuaded  I could reasonably decide Co-ops actions obliged her to 
repay the loan.  I think she could  have kept the loan and continued to make the payments 
shed agreed to make under it. The debt collectors hadnt added  any charges to the loan as 
a result of their involvement  so Ms E wouldnt have had to pay any more  than shed originally 
agreed to pay.
Ref: DRN27724722Given the above, I dont think Co-ops  actions caused Ms E any financial loss for which  it 
should compensate  her. But its service fell well below the level she was entitled to expect  
and caused her unnecessary trouble and upset. In all the circumstances I dont think  the 
£250 Co-op has already paid to Ms E is sufficient  compensation and it should be increased  
by £100. But I dont think I could reasonably require it to pay more than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require The Co-
operative Bank Plc to pay Ms E £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2772472