K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited declined a claim under her contents policy.
background
Mrs A had contents insurance with Aviva and made a claim when various  items  were stolen 
from the boot of her car. She had reported  the theft to the police and received a reference 
number. The police  had also told her they would  attend to conduct forensic tests on the car 
but this never happened, because, the police said, it had been snowing and the car was wet. 
Mrs A was never  given  a police report.
Declining the claim, Aviva said the policy excluded theft from an unattended  vehicle (other 
than from a locked  and concealed boot [ ] which has been broken into by using force  and 
violence). It further commented should you wish to take the matter further we would require 
a report from the police confirming the use of a hi-tech scammer.
Mrs A complained to Aviva about  its decision to decline her claim, but her complaint was 
rejected and so she complained to this service. Shes explained she was told by the police  
that it was common for vehicles to be broken into without vandalising the car using a hi-tech 
scammer. It was also possible for thieves  to reprogram electronic  car keys and open cars.
Our investigator has recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He accepted  the 
act of opening a car boot would constitute force and that the use of equipment  such  as a hi-
tech scammer to unlock  a car would constitute violence. He considered  the particular model 
of car was susceptible to this sort of violent entry and therefore he didnt think  the force  and 
violence exclusion had been  fairly  applied, He recommended  Aviva should reconsider the 
claim without  applying  the exclusion.  .
Aviva has asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  Its said there was no 
evidence that a crime had been  committed and it needed the police  report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs A told Aviva  that shed  arrived home in the evening and realised her possessions  were 
no longer in her boot.  Shes provided a list of items that had been stolen, and confirmed 
there was no damage or evidence of the car having been vandalised.
Aviva declined this claim on the basis that the policy excluded theft from an unattended 
vehicle which hadnt been broken into using force and violence. So Ive considered whether 
this is fair.
Im satisfied that the physical act of lifting up a boot satisfies the policy requirement of force 
and that the use of equipment such as a hi-tech scammer would constitute violence. In an 
email to Mrs A, Aviva commented that should she wish to take the matter further it would 
require a police report confirming the use of a scammer, which  suggests  that it too would 
consider the use of a scammer  to constitute violence within  the terms of the police. 
Ref: DRN20312712Therefore, Im satisfied  that if thieves had used  a scammer to open the boot of Mrs As car 
and steal her belongings, the exclusion wouldnt apply.
Ive considered the email Mrs A received from the police  confirming  they wouldnt be 
attending to conduct forensic testing on the car. The email begins,  the crime report  for your 
theft from motor vehicle was flagged for our attention and based on this, Im satisfied there  
was a crime report but it likely wouldnt assist to confirm the use of a hi-tech scammer 
because the police never examined the car.
Im also satisfied Mrs A took appropriate  steps  to report the theft to the police and to contact 
Aviva. And while I understand  Avivas concerns, the police told Mrs A it was likely  the thieves 
had used a scammer,  and her account is consistent with her car having been broken  into in 
that way. Therefore in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded its most  
likely that it was. Further, I dont  think its fair for Mrs A to lose out because the police failed 
to properly investigate  and/or produce a police  report and for these reasons, Im not satisfied 
that Avivas decision to decline the claim  was fair. 
For the reasons  outlined  above I agree with out investigator that Aviva should reconsider the 
claim without  applying  the exclusion.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim without 
applying the exclusion.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2031271