K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ), gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr D was given seven  payday loans and a flex credit account by QQ between  
November 2012  and September 2017. All the loans except Loan  8 have been repaid. A 
summary of the loans  taken out by Mr D is shown  below:
Loan number  Date of loan Repayment date Loan amount  
1. 16/11/12 30/11/12 £150
2. 30/11/12 22/12/12 £150
3. 22/12/12 26/4/13 £350 
4. 30/4/13 23/5/13 £400
5. 9/6/13 30/8/13 £400
6. 30/8/13 25/10/13 £400
7.(Flex Credit)
25/10/13 19/1/15 Various from £200 to 
£450
      8. 4/9/17 Unpaid £500
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld  in part. She 
recommended that Mr Ds complaint about  Loans  3 to 8 be upheld.  
QQ, in response,  and in an effort to resolve the complaint amicably, offered to refund all 
interest and charges paid on Loans  3 to 6 and pay 8% interest on those refunds and remove  
adverse entries  about Loans  3 to 6 from Mr Ds credit file. It said that there was a break of 
959 days between the repayment of Loan  7 and Loan 8 being  taken  out.
Mr D rejected QQs offer so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to
assess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
I note that QQ has offered  to provide a refund of interest and charges paid by Mr D on 
Loans 3 to 6 and pay statutory interest  on those refunds. It also offered to remove the entries 
about those loans from Mr Ds credit file. Except for taking Loans 3 to 6 into account when 
assessing Mr Ds other  loans, and ordering QQ to provide the offered redress later in this 
decision, I wont make any other  findings  about those loans here.
When QQ first lent to Mr D the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading and relevant 
guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 onwards 
the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations and 
guidance included  its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC contained  
similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN21798072I note that QQ said that its assessment for Loan  8 was in line with the FCAs Handbook. But 
this service has addressed this specific point by QQ in previous decisions.  I would remind 
QQ at this point of the FCA guidance  on how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and 
fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which  says that 
businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Ds complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
QQ needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QQ was required to establish whether 
Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN21798073Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
QQ did a number of checks before it lent to Mr D. It asked him for details of his income. And 
from Loan 8 it also asked about  Mr Ds expenditure. Mr Ds initial  declared income was £600  
until Loan 7 when it increased  to £900. Before Loan 8 Mr Ds declared income was £1,600. 
Mr D declared  his expenditure as £525 before Loan 8. QQ checked Mr Ds employment  and 
housing status.  From the information QQ gathered, Mr D was employed and paid rent. 
QQ also checked Mr Ds credit  file before agreeing  to the loans. It hasnt provided us with   
the results of its credit checks. But QQ did tell us it checked Mr Ds other credit commitments  
before Loan 8 and I shall refer to these  below. Mr D hasnt provided his credit report  to us. 
So I dont  know whether there were entries on Mr Ds credit report  that shouldve  concerned 
QQ.
The repayments that Mr D needed to make  on Loans 1 and 2 were relatively modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to QQ. The repayment  amount for Loan 1 was 
£165, and for Loan 2 it was £176.25. I dont think the repayments were  so large that its 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr D financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ds repayment  amounts for Loans 1 and 2, what  was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, and that these  were his first loans with the lender, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for QQ to ask him for the amount  of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr D provided or the information 
QQ shouldve been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I dont think QQ was wrong  to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr D.
Loan 7
As Ive said above,  I propose to take Loans 3 to 6 into account  when assessing Loan 7. I 
note that by Loan 7, Mr D had been  borrowing almost continuously and mostly  in quick  
succession from QQ for nearly a year. Ive looked  at the overall pattern of the lending chain 
since Loan 1 to see if there was a point at which QQ should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  lending. Given  the particular circumstances of 
Mr Ds case, I think that this point was reached  by Loan 6 in this chain of lending.  Loan 6 
was borrowed on the same day that Loan  5 was repaid. The amounts Mr D was borrowing 
werent decreasing  and I think  QQ ought to have  realised it was likely  his indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably. By the time Mr D asked for Loan 6, he didnt appear to be making 
Ref: DRN21798074any inroads into the amount he owed the lender. And by that time Mr D had paid a 
considerable amount of interest to QQ to effectively  service a debt over an extended period.
Mr D took out Loan 7 on the day he repaid Loan  6 and the amount he initially borrowed  was 
higher than Loan 6. I think that Mr D lost out because QQ lent him Loan 7. This flex credit 
loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. And the length  
of time that Mr D had been taking out short term loans was likely  to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.  The fact that Loan 7 was repaid doesnt mean it was repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr D undue difficulty. I note in particular that Mr D had to 
arrange two payment plans with QQ in order to repay Loan 7. So I dont think  it was 
reasonable for QQ to lend Loan  7 to Mr D.
Loan 8
There was a gap of almost 32 months between when Mr D repaid Loan 7 (the flex-credit  
account) and when  he took out Loan 8. And I think this was significant  enough  a gap to 
constitute a break in the chain of lending. So I dont think that Loan 8 forms part of the same 
pattern of lending Ive referred to above  in terms of Loans 1 to 7. 
However, while there had been this gap in lending, the amount Mr D came back  to borrow  at 
the time of Loan 8 was still significant.  The loan amount was his highest yet with QQ. The 
amount was £500 and repayable over three monthly instalments with a highest final 
instalment of £612. 
QQ said it validated Mr Ds other credit commitments before Loan 8. It said these amounted 
to £1,227 whilst Mr D had declared other credit commitments totalling  just £150. QQs 
schedules show that Mr D had also declared an income of £1,600  and other regular 
expenditure of £325. I think that QQ should have seen from the total amount of Mr Ds 
outstanding other credit  commitments and his declared regular expenditure that his loan 
repayments werent likely to be sustainable. And I think QQ ought to have  realised it was 
likely that Mr D was having problems managing his money. So I think  QQ was wrong to give 
Loan 8 to Mr D.
So Im intending  to uphold the complaint  about Loans 7 and 8 and I think that QQ needs to 
pay Mr D some compensation relating to Loans 7 and 8 along with what  it has already  
offered in relation to Loans 3 to 6. So QQ should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what QQ needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on Loans 3 to 7 and pay interest  of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
with regard to Loan 8, refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on 
Loan 8, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 8;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  8 and 
pay any balance to Mr D;
Ref: DRN21798075Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  3 to 5 from Mr Ds credit  file; and
the number  of loans taken from Loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 6 onwards should  be removed 
from Mr Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If QQ intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr D paid on Loans 3 to 7 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 8, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr D has paid on 
Loan 8, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 8;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  8 and 
pay any balance to Mr D;
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  3 to 5 from Mr Ds credit  file; and
6.The number of loans  taken from Loan 6 onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 6 onwards should  be removed 
from Mr Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If QQ intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2179807