K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc voided his home contents insurance policy 
because he failed to tell it about a previous  claim  when taking out the policy.
background
Mr J took out a contents insurance policy with AXA through a website. As part of the online 
process he was asked to give details of all claims  he had made within  the last five years.  
Mr J said he had made two claims.
When Mr J later made a claim on the policy  AXA found out that he had in fact made  three 
claims within the previous  five years, not two. And AXA said it wouldnt offer insurance to 
someone who had made  more than two claims. So, because it wouldnt have provided cover  
to Mr J if it had known  about the third claim,  AXA declined to pay the claim and voided his 
policy.
Mr J complained to AXA and then to this service. He said he had simply made a mistake  and 
it wasnt fair to refuse him cover for a genuine  mistake. 
Our investigator said AXA had accepted Mr J had made a careless  misrepresentation - it 
wasnt deliberate  or reckless - but AXA had shown it wouldnt offer cover to someone who 
had made  more than two claims. So he thought it would be fair to void the policy and return 
his premium. This is what AXA had done and was in line with the relevant law.
Mr J disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint, for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  
AXA said it voided Mr Js policy because he made a misrepresentation when he took out his 
policy, and if he had given  the correct information it wouldnt have provided cover  for him. 
The law relating  to misrepresentation is set out in the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). CIDRA applies to contracts between a consumer 
and an insurer. Mr J bought his policy online through another  firm. Where a policy is bought  
in this way, CIDRA  sets out the rules to decide if a firm as acting as agent for the insurer 
(rather than the consumer).  The firm provided a policy in its own name from one of a small 
panel of insurers.  Looking at CIDRA, this is in line with some of the examples given. Im 
satisfied it was acting  as agent for AXA rather than for Mr J. So CIDRA would apply.
When he took out his policy in May 2018, Mr J was asked about whether he had made any 
claims in the previous  five years. In my judgment  this was a clear question. And the 
information provided to him made  clear  the importance of answering  questions accurately. 
CIDRA says a consumer  is to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation when 
answering a question. Mr J had made  three claims on his previous insurance  in June 
2015, January  2016 and March 2016 respectively. He only mentioned two of the claims. So 
the information he gave wasnt correct. Mr J says this was a genuine error  he just forgot  
Ref: DRN24518962about one of the claims. The claim in question  was around two years earlier and involved  the 
loss of his bicycle.  I think  thats something Mr J should have mentioned  if hed taken 
reasonable care when  answering the question.  So Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA gives further information  about the types  of (qualifying) misrepresentation and what 
an insurer can do depending on the type.  AXA accepts the misrepresentation was careless, 
not deliberate  or reckless.  The remedies for a careless misrepresentation allow  AXA to do 
what it would  have  done if Mr J had taken reasonable care.  AXA has provided sufficient 
information which shows that it would not have offered any cover. In these circumstances, 
CIDRA says that if the insurer wouldnt have provided the insurance  on any terms, it may 
avoid the policy and refuse  all claims, but return the premiums. And thats what  AXA has 
done. I appreciate  there was some  delay refunding the premium  but that has now been  
done. 
I dont think there is any reason to depart from the legal position. Having looked at the 
circumstances I dont  think  it would  be fair to direct AXA to provide  insurance to Mr J and 
accept his claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019..
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2451896