K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains, in summary, that CashEuroNet UK LLC,  trading as QuickQuid, (QQ),
gave her loans that she couldnt afford  to repay.  
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a
provisional decision to both parties in November 2018. I then issued further  conclusions  in a 
second provisional decision in March 2019.  I have included a copy  of my second provisional
decision at the end of this document and so I wont repeat its content here.
Miss D didnt respond to my second  provisional  decision. 
QQ responded to my second  provisional  decision to say that it disagreed with it. QQ said 
that it didnt agree that Miss D shouldnt have been provided with Loans  1 to 3 based on the 
enhanced checks  it had performed prior to approving each of the loans. QQ said that it had 
provided detailed  information in its initial response to this complaint indicating why those 
loans were responsibly lent to Miss D. So it couldnt agree that QQ had acted irresponsibly in 
lending to Miss D. QQ was confident that its affordability assessment went far enough and 
was within  the guidelines set forth to ensure  responsible  lending  at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that QQs response to my second provisional  decision said that its loans were 
responsibly lent to Miss D. But I also note it has already  accepted that this was not the case 
with Loan 3 and it has already agreed  to provide compensation for Loan  3. 
Otherwise I cant see that QQ has provided any new information or arguments for me to 
consider. I had already considered the information  provided in its initial response to this 
complaint in my provisional decisions. And Ive set out in those decisions why I dont 
consider that Loan 1 was sustainable and why I dont think that QQs affordability 
assessment went far enough for Loan 2. Id also explained in my second provisional  decision 
that if QQ had carried out what  Id considered  to be proportionate checks before
Loan 2, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that the repayments for Loan 2 
werent sustainable.
I also note that QQ said that its affordability  assessment was within the guidelines at the 
time. But as stated above this Service has responded  to QQ on this generic argument 
directly and through earlier  final decisions.
So I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my second provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require QQ to pay Miss D some 
compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, to:
Ref: DRN218480221. Refund all interest and charges that Miss D paid on Loan  1 and Loan 2;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
3. With regard to Loan  3, refund all the interest and charges that Miss D has paid on
    Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of
    payment to the date of settlement;
4. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 3;
5. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and pay
    any  balance  to Miss D; and
6. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 to 3 from Miss Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If QQ intends
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision 10 May 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
                               COPY  OF SECOND PROVISONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss D complains,  in summary,  that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, (QQ),
gave her loans that she couldnt afford to repay. The complaint is brought  to this service  on
Miss Ds behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below to all
actions being taken by Miss D, unless otherwise stated.
Ref: DRN21848023background
Miss D was given three payday loans by QQ between April 2015 and October 2017. Loans 2
and 3 were  deferred payment loans  with three monthly repayments.  The third repayment
was substantially higher than the first two. Loan 3 remains unpaid.  A summary of the loans
taken out by Miss D is shown below:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount (for 
Loans 2 and 3 only)
1. 15/4/15 20/5/15 £50 n/a
2. 29/11/16 15/9/17 £400 £499.20
3. 2/10/17 Unpaid £100 £124.80
Miss D said that QQ hadnt  carried out suitable credit checks.  The granting of the loans,
which werent affordable, prevented her from meeting her essential living expenses.  She
was unable to make  the required payments  without undue difficulty whilst continuing to meet
other debt repayments and reasonable outgoings.  She was totally  dependent on payday
loans.
QQ said it analysed Miss Ds current financial  commitments, insolvency records,
delinquency records, county court judgments, credit enquiries and other credit accounts  then
currently open. It said that Miss Ds income  was more than enough to cover the amounts she
had to repay. QQ had asked  for details of Miss Ds income and expenditure  before the loans.
QQ told this service that as Miss D had been put on a repayment plan for Loan 2, it could
now see that Miss D would  have possibly  had some trouble repaying  Loan 3. So it agreed to
refund interest and charges  paid on Loan 3, pay interest at 8% on the refunds and remove
Loan 3 from Miss Ds credit  file. It said that there  would  be a capital  balance outstanding  of
£23.90 on Loan 3.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator said that the checks QQ had carried out before Loan 1 were sufficient  as the
repayment amount was a relatively small  proportion of Miss Ds declared monthly income
and she couldnt see anything on QQs credit check to prevent it from lending. But she said
that the checks which  QQ had carried  out before Loan  2 werent sufficient  in view of the
highest monthly repayment of £499.20. She said that QQ should  have gathered information
about Miss Ds short term lending. She concluded  that the loan was unaffordable  as Miss D
had insufficient disposable  income to repay it. The adjudicator hadnt looked at Loan 3 as
QQ had made an offer to settle it. So the adjudicator recommended that QQ should:
- refund  all interest  and charges that Miss D paid on Loans 2 and 3;
- pay interest  of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of
  settlement*;
-remove any negative information about Loans  2 and 3 from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must  give
Miss D a certificate showing  how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If QQ
intends to apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital  balance, it must  do so after
deducting the tax.
QQ responded to say that it didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendations for Loan 2.
It said that it had considered Miss Ds income and expenses  data and validated the figures
using Miss Ds credit report.  It had examined Miss Ds other credit commitments. It ensured
that it validated the monthly credit commitments and reasonableness of Miss Ds self
reported expenses amount  against  credit  reference agency data. QQ said that for Loan 2,
Ref: DRN21848024Miss Ds income was £1,200 and it had calculated  her monthly disposable income  to be
£675.
my initial provisional  decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued  a provisional  decision on this complaint to Miss D
and to QQ on 8 November  2018. I summarise my findings:
I said that as QQ had offered to provide compensation for Loan 3, I wouldnt be investigating
this loan.
I explained that QQ was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make checks to make
sure Miss D could afford to repay  each of the loans before it lent to her. Those checks
needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount  Miss D was borrowing,  the length
of the agreements  and her lending history. But there was no set list of checks  QQ had to do.
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  was the regulator  at the time Miss D
borrowed from QQ. I said that its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to
assess the customers ability  to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement  in a
sustainable manner  without the customer  incurring  financial difficulties  or experiencing  significant 
adverse consequences. The regulations  define sustainable as being able to make repayments 
without undue  difficulty,  and that this means borrowers  should be able to make their repayments on 
time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet  these repayments.
I couldnt assume that because Miss D was able to repay two of her loans in full that she
was able to do so out of her normal income without having to borrow further.
QQ had sent us very brief information about its checks with the credit reference agencies
which wasnt sufficient for me to understand what it had seen about  Miss Ds credit history.
QQ had told us that before lending Loan 1 to Miss D, it had asked her about her income and
regular expenditure. It had said that it had run several credit checks that allowed  it to verify
the reasonableness  of the information Miss D had provided to it. Miss D had declared  a
monthly income of £850  and regular  expenditure of £775  at the time of Loan  1. So that left a
disposable income  of just £75 to repay the repayment  amount of £64. QQ said that it didnt
find any reasons not to approve the loan. But as the loan repayment amount was just less
than Miss Ds declared disposable income amount, I didnt think  that the repayment for 
Loan 1 was sustainable as Miss D would  have had only £11 left over that month for
unexpected costs.  So, I didnt think QQ should have given Loan 1 to Miss D.
I noted that Loan  2 was taken out around 18 months after Loan 1 was repaid.  So I thought
that QQ could  have  approached Loan 2 as though it was lending to Miss D for the first time.
QQ said that Miss D had declared that her income had increased to £1,200 and her
expenses were £525. So her monthly stated  disposable income was £675. Loan 2 was
repayable by three instalments of £54.40, £99.20, and £499.20. I didnt think at that stage of
its relationship with Miss D that QQ had any reason to doubt  the information shed  provided,
and I didnt think it was unreasonable for QQ to rely on Miss Ds declared  disposable income
of £675. But as the third loan repayment of £499.20 was a significant  proportion  of her
disposable income,  I also thought QQ should have supplemented the information it held by
asking Miss D some  more detailed  questions, such as whether she was borrowing from
other short  term lenders  at the same time.
QQ told us that its assessment for affordability especially focused on validating  monthly
credit commitments to ensure that any short term credit and payments were included  and it
validated reported  expenses against  credit report data. Miss D had told QQ that her monthly
credit commitments were  £150. This amount was included in her total expenses of £525.
Ref: DRN21848025Id reviewed Miss Ds credit report and her bank statements for the month before she took
Loan 2. I could  see that Miss D had taken a short  term loan in that period for £50 which
would have required repayment around the same time as the first monthly repayment.  She
had also taken  out an instalment loan just over a month before Loan 2 for which £133 was
payable each  month for six months. So it was to be repaid around the same time as the
three instalments for Loan 2. I couldnt be sure Miss D had included these amounts within
her declared  expenses  or that they were reported on QQs credit search. But at that stage of
its relationship with Miss D, and even  if QQ had been aware of the short  term lending
amounts, I didnt think that it would have been unreasonable for QQ to have concluded that
Miss D would be able to meet the loan repayments when  they fell due. So, I didnt intend  to
uphold Miss Ds complaint  about Loan 2.
In summary I didnt think QQ should have given Miss D, Loan 1 and I thought  it needed to
pay Miss D some compensation  relating  to this loan along with what it had already agreed to
pay for Loan 3.
Subject to any further representations by Miss D or QQ my provisional decision was that I
intended to uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and to say that QQ should:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Miss D paid on Loan 1;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple*  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
3. With regard  to Loan 3, refund all the interest and charges that Miss D has paid on
    Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the
    date of settlement;
4. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 3;
5. Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding  on Loan 3 and pay
    any balance to Miss D; and
6. Remove any adverse  information about Loans 1 and 3 from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must  give
Miss D a certificate showing  how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If QQ intends
to apply  the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
QQ disagreed with my findings about Loan  1. It said that its regulator didnt set out minimum
levels of disposable income a consumer  should have in order for a creditworthiness
assessment to be compliant.  QQ said that no explanation was given as to why the remaining
disposable income  wasnt acceptable nor what emergencies there might be or whether  such
emergencies were  reasonably foreseeable at the time the loan was granted. QQ said that
there wasnt any justifiable reason why Miss Ds remaining disposable  income after taking
account of the loan repayment  was insufficient.
Miss D responded to say that she agreed with my assessment on Loans 1 and 3. But she
also said that Loan 2 wasnt affordable and the income  and expenses  reported by QQ
werent correct.  She provided  a screenshot from her phone to show what  shed provided  to
QQ at the time of Loan 2. This showed the following ranges of expenses:-
Rent £0 - £200
Utilities and bills £251-£350
Travel £0 - £100
Food £151-£250
Credit commitments £101 - £200
Other £251-£300
Miss D also said that her two loan repayment amounts at the time were  £30 and £50. And
she said that during Loan 2 her husband had lost his job and her rent had increased to £425
Ref: DRN21848026which shed told QQ about. So she said that her total expenditure  was £1,000 which
increased to £1,275 after the rent increase.
current provisional conclusions
With regard to Loan  1, I note that QQ has referred to its regulators requirements with regard
to minimum levels of disposable income. As Ive said above, the regulations require lenders  to take 
reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet repayments under  a regulated credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  the customer  incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing  
significant adverse consequences.  The regulations  define  sustainable as being able to make 
repayments without undue difficulty.
So, QQ has to assess the risk before lending to Miss D of the loan not being sustainable.  I
think there was a risk of the loan not being  sustainable here in view of Miss Ds
circumstances. I note that Miss D was a home renter who travelled to work. Bearing in mind
her circumstances, I think it would have taken a very small change  in Miss Ds finances
caused by an unexpected or seasonal  expense for her to have significant problems meeting
her loan repayment.  So overall  I dont think QQ could have safely concluded  here that
Miss D could sustainably afford Loan 1.
I also note that QQ has queried  whether  emergency expenses were foreseeable when the
loans were granted or what they might be. But I think  emergency  expenses  are by their very
nature always  likely  to be unforeseeable.
I note what Miss D said about her declared expenses at the time of Loan 2. As the
screenshot shed provided wasnt dated, I asked  the adjudicator to ask Miss D if she could
provide her expenditure details showing the date they were submitted to QQ. She didnt
provide this. So I asked the adjudicator to ask for QQs comments as to why the figures  in
Miss Ds screenshot  differed substantially from those given in its spreadsheet.
QQ responded to say that the screenshot wasnt Miss Ds expenditure  when she requested
Loan 2, but instead was the latest information  it had received from her.
I asked the adjudicator to ask Miss D for her comments on what  QQ had said about the
screenshot. But Miss D didnt provide any comments  in response to my query. So, I couldnt
safely conclude that the figures shown in her screenshot were the expense figures  she had
provided to QQ before Loan 2.
I also asked the adjudicator  to ask QQ if Miss D had provided it with information  about  her
expenses in ranges before  Loan 2. QQ responded to say that it had provided this service
with the actual  expense information provided  by Miss D which Id set out above.
I also note what Miss D had said about her husband losing her job and her increased rent.
But it appears  that these events occurred after the date of Loan 2, and I need to decide
whether QQs credit assessment was sufficient at the time of granting Loan 2 which was
before these events had happened.
I have also considered the further  information about  Miss Ds expenditure  provided by QQ to
us in its email dated 28 December  2018  in response to my queries.  Id previously  noted from
QQs email dated 5 June 2018 that QQ validates a consumers stated monthly  credit
commitments to ensure that any short term credit and payments are included in this
category. QQ said that it uses validated data in order to determine a customers estimated
disposable income  (EDI). In the June email, QQ said that the total of all the payments under
the loan have  to be less than 80% of the consumers  EDI for the term of the loan. QQ said in
that email that wasnt the case here.
But in the email  dated  28 December  2018, QQ told us that it had validated Miss Ds other
Ref: DRN21848027credit commitments and found them  to be £395. So it said that Miss Ds EDI was £290.06.  I note that 
the total of all payments under the loan were £652.80  and that amount  is 86% of
Miss Ds total EDI of £753.36 for the term of the loan (79 days according  to QQ).
Its not clear to me how QQ determined Miss Ds EDI. But regardless of the method of
calculation here, I think QQ should have been concerned about the risk of Loan 2 not being
sustainable and so it should have looked in much more  depth  at Miss Ds true financial
situation to assess the affordability of its lending.  It couldve done this in a number of ways. It
couldve asked for evidence of Miss Ds income and expenditure  such  as payslips  and bills,
or it couldve looked at things like her bank statements.
Ive looked at Miss Ds bank  statements to see what better checks  would have shown  QQ.
The bank statements  may not have  shown  QQ everything it wouldve  seen by carrying  out
proportionate checks. But I think the bank statements  are the best indication  of Miss Ds
ability to afford  the loan at the time it was approved. So I dont think its unreasonable  to rely
on these.
If QQ had checked Miss Ds financial information before  Loan  2, it would  have seen that her
income was more than shed declared  as it also included benefit income  as well as her
earned income, a total of around  £1,890.  But, it also would have become  aware that
Miss Ds regular expenditure was around £1,685. And I also note that Miss D had taken out
another short  term loan for £50 which would have been repayable around the same time as
Loan 2. So I cant see that Miss D had sufficient  disposable  income to make the three
repayments. So, if QQ had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks before
Loan 2, I think its likely that it would have concluded that the repayments for Loan 2 werent
sustainable. Consequently  I intend to uphold  Miss Ds complaint about Loan 2.
QQ also provided further information for me to consider including more detail  about its
lending process. I note that this says that all loans post March 2015 meet the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) affordability  rules.  This Service has responded to QQ on this
generic argument directly  and through earlier final decisions.
But I would remind QQ at this point  of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be dealt
with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A  [G] which
says that businesses  procedures for complaint handling should 
ensure that lessons learned as a result  of determinations  by the Ombudsman are effectively
applied in future  complaint handling, for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals  dealing with complaints in
the respondent.
Overall, having carefully considered Miss Ds and QQs responses to my first provisional
decision, I intend to change the conclusions  I reached before,  and now uphold Loans 1 
and 2. So QQ needs to pay Miss D some compensation  relating to these loans along with what  it had 
already agreed  to pay for Loan 3.
my second  provisional decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence
I receive from either Miss D or from QQ, my second provisional decision is that I intend  to
uphold this complaint. I intend to order QQ to:
Ref: DRN218480281. Refund all interest and charges that Miss D paid on Loan 1 and Loan 2;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple*  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
3. With regard  to Loan 3, refund all the interest and charges that Miss D has paid on
    Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of
    payment to the date of settlement;
4. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 3;
5. Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding  on Loan 3 and pay
    any balance to Miss D; and
6. Remove any adverse  information about Loans 1 to 3 from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must  give
Miss D a certificate showing  how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If QQ intends
to apply  the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2184802