K820x#14Complaint
Mrs Bs complained about an instalment  loan she took out with Valour  Finance  Limited  
(trading as Savvy.co.uk). She says Savvy shouldnt have lent to her as she couldnt afford 
to repay  the loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs B and Savvy had told us. And she thought  that 
the checks Savvy carried out before giving Mrs B her loan were reasonable and 
proportionate. So she didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Mrs B disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mrs Bs complaint.  
Savvy needed to make sure that it didnt provide Mrs Bs loan irresponsibly. In practice, what  
this means is that Savvy needed to carry out proportionate checks  to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mrs B before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mrs B was provided with a single loan for £1,000  in July 2017. The loan was to be repaid  
over a period  of around fifteen months, with fortnightly  payments of just over £60. Savvy 
says it agreed to Mrs Bs application after she provided details of her monthly income and 
expenditure. It says the information  Mrs B provided  on her income and expenditure couple 
with other  checks it carried out showed that shed  be able to comfortably  make  the 
repayments she was committing  to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Mrs B and Savvy have  said.  The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Mrs Bs first loan with Savvy. So I dont think that there  was any established 
pattern in Mrs Bs borrowing needs  at this stage.  The information provided, which looks to 
have been confirmed in a phone call, does suggest  that Mrs B was asked to provide details 
of her income and expenditure.  Bearing  in mind  the amount of the fortnightly repayment, the 
questions Savvy asked  Mrs B and this was Mrs Bs first loan, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Savvy to rely on the information  Mrs B provided.
Ref: DRN29382652I accept that Mrs Bs actual circumstances  may not have been reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Savvy  obtained. And Im sorry to hear that 
Mrs B found  it difficult to make her payments. But Savvy could only make its decision  based 
on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage  of the lending  relationship, I 
dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into Savvy asking Mrs B to evidence 
what she declared.  
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Savvy did anything wrong in deciding  to lend to Mrs B - it 
carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information it mightve been 
provided with was inaccurate. Savvy reasonably relied on the information provided with and 
given the amount of the repayments involved and the overall  circumstances of Mrs Bs loan 
history, I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to lend.
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Mrs B. But I hope shell  understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2938265