K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited treated him unfairly in connection with the outstanding 
balance on his credit  card account.
background
In 2018 Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty, and in December he contacted MBNA to 
tell it he could no longer afford to make the minimum repayments  to the account. MBNA 
accepted this, and agreed  to freeze interest and charges on the account for six months.  It 
said that once  seven monthly  payments  had been missed, the account would be defaulted.  
MBNA also told Mr M he could consider offering a partial settlement of what he owed.
However, contrary to what MBNA  had promised, it sent Mr M a default notice in February 
2019. When he contacted the business, he was told MBNAs default  policy  had changed. It 
no longer waited until six months  of payments had been missed,  and it didnt  accept partial 
settlement offers  any more.
Mr M thought it was unfair for MBNA to change its approach without warning him. He also 
said that if hed known the policy would  change,  he would have offered a partial  settlement 
when he spoke to the bank in December 2018. Mr M also said MBNA hadnt  frozen  interest 
on his account  as it said it would.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said MBNAs  policy  for defaulting accounts 
was an internal matter  for the business,  and not something this Service could interfere with. 
He was also satisfied  that MBNA hadnt  applied any further charges or interest on the 
account after December  2018. The investigator  concluded  that although Mr M had paid a lot 
of interest over the years,  the capital balance  on his account had also reduced. So the 
investigator didnt  consider MBNAs  interest rates had been wrongly applied.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions, and so this complaint has been  passed 
to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M spoke  to MBNA in December  2018, he told it he wasnt in a position to make  any 
payments towards  what he owed  on the account. MBNA completed  an income and 
expenditure assessment, and agreed that Mr M couldnt afford  to pay. It said it would freeze  
interest and charges on the account.
MBNA told Mr M that his minimum payments  were  still due, but it wouldnt expect to receive  
them. It said once seven  payments had been missed it would take steps to default the 
account. MBNA explained that Mr M might  want to consider making  an offer to settle what he 
owed in part. But it said that any offer would need to be acceptable  to MBNA, and it would 
still be recorded on his credit file for six years.
Following the phone call, MBNA sent Mr M a letter to confirm what had been discussed. This 
said:
Ref: DRN23305692Registering a default
The offered payment amount [referring to the monthly payments, rather  than a 
partial settlement offer] wont be enough to prevent us registering a default  with the 
credit reference agencies,  even if you continue to maintain payments at this level.
The amount shown on your monthly statement will continue to be due, and if you 
dont make a payment of that amount, we might take further action.  However, well 
give you 30 days advance  notice of this action  (unless  you have already  received 
this notice).
The information MBNA gave Mr M over the phone was in line with the banks policy at the 
time for defaulting  accounts and accepting  offers for partial settlement. So I can well 
understand why Mr M was surprised and disappointed when he received a default notice 
earlier than had been agreed, in February.
However, paragraph 21.3 of the account  terms and conditions reads as follows:
We can delay enforcing or choose not to enforce  any or all of our rights under  this 
agreement, in whole or in part, without losing  them.  We may apply our rights again 
at any time. If we have indicated to you that we are not, for the time being, enforcing 
our rights, we will let you know if we decide  to do so.
That is what  happened here. MBNA agreed  not to default the account for six months, but 
then (as a result of changing its policy generally,  rather than by singling out Mr M in 
particular) it decided  to exercise its right to default the account earlier. I think MBNA was 
entitled to do that under  paragraph  21.3, although  I recognise that this would certainly  have 
been frustrating  to Mr M, and that it seems unfair.
However, apart from the shock  of receiving the unexpected default letter, I think that there  
was no other  adverse  consequence caused to Mr M by MBNA  taking  this course of action. 
Mr M says if hed known MBNAs policy was going to change, he would have offered a 
partial settlement  in December 2018.  But when Mr M spoke to MBNA  in December 2018, he 
didnt have any means to cover his minimum repayments. And despite what hes told us 
about the possibility of borrowing money from a friend, I dont think  I can safely say that he 
would ever have  been  in a position  to make  an offer that would have been acceptable to 
MBNA. So I think its likely that he would still have been defaulted  anyway, after six months, 
if MBNA  had stuck to what  it agreed.
The bank was required to give Mr M 30 days notice of any proposed default (and it made  
him aware  of that in the letter it sent following the phone  call in December 2018). Im 
satisfied that MBNA gave  Mr M adequate  notice  in the letter it sent in February 2019.
Mr M has said MBNA didnt freeze interest and charges on the account. But from what  Ive 
seen, it seems the balance on MBNAs default  notice was the same  as the balance when 
Mr M contacted it in December 2018.  So I think its clear that no further interest or charges 
have been applied since then. (There is a reference to arrears,  but the arrears are part of the 
balance, not in addition to it.)
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN23305693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2330569