K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr and Mrs J say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered both Mr and Mrs J for accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen some of the paperwork  from the sale. On Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  
application theres a section  headed  INSURANCE DETAILS. The section for PPI 
has another heading Mortgage Repayment  Insurance  for injury, Illness  and 
Unemployment. Theres a question  in this section  that asks; Do you wish to take 
advantage of the security and protection offered by the Societys Payment Protection 
Insurance Policy  to cover your mortgage repayments? (Yes or No). 
Beside this statement its been handwritten Yes  and the option  for injury, illness and 
unemployment has been selected when  there  was also an option for injury  and 
illness only. 
A specific level of benefit split has also been  selected. Mr and Mrs J have also signed  
a Mortgage application and insurance  proposal form to agree to their application.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer dated 10 November 1994. This document 
lists a separate  cost for PPI underneath the monthly  mortgage repayment. 
Ive also noted  that in 1997 Mr and Mrs J took out some further borrowing. Ive seen  
a copy of their unsigned further advance application form. In the section for PPI, its 
been handwritten  next to a Yes or No option  for PPI Yescontinue with existing . 
On balance, based on everything Ive seen, I think that its more  likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs J were made aware that PPI was optional  before they agreed to take it 
out. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs J have  said about not being aware that 
theyd taken PPI. But I simply  havent seen sufficient  evidence to support what  
theyve said. In my opinion, the paperwork  from the sale presented PPI as optional  
and they agreed  to take it out. I dont know why Mr and Mrs J didnt  attempt to make 
a claim when they were  made unemployed, but they still have the option of speaking 
to Bradford & Bingley  about the possibility of making  a backdated claim on their PPI 
policy. 
Bradford & Bingley  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the 
Ref: DRN29487232time, I think that it was. For example they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs J about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong  particularly  as it seems that Mr and Mrs J had limited  
existing means for making their repayments if they were made unemployed or unwell 
and unable to work.  
Given the potential  consequences if they were unable to meet  their mortgage 
repayments, I think that they could have found  the PPI useful. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs J.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because : 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because Bradford 
& Bingley didnt  tell Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said, but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
I acknowledge that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs J wanted, but I thank them  for 
their time and patience  when waiting so long for an answer.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs J any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs J the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs J 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
Ref: DRN29487233But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 may 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2948723