K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Connells Limited (trading as Fox & Sons) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs B took out in 2009  alongside  a mortgage. It 
protected her mortgage monthly  repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Connells disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  came  to me to decide.  I issued  a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im planning to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Briefly, our adjudicators  view was that: 
it appeared that Mrs B had been  off work with health problems in the 12 months 
before taking out her mortgage  and the PPI, and she told us shed  seen her doctor  
and had been taking medication and getting  counselling during that time
so the likely policy terms wouldnt have  covered  her for absence  from work as a 
result of these particular health  issues
our adjudicator didnt  think  it likely that Connells  wouldve  made this clear  enough to 
Mrs B.
Mrs B probably wouldnt have bought the policy if she had known that her 
circumstances made  it more difficult to claim on the policy because of her condition.
Unfortunately, after so long, there isnt any paperwork for me to see that shows how the PPI 
was sold. But Ive taken  into account  that Connells said its representative wouldve had 
discussions with Mrs B about her insurance requirements and provided her with an 
insurance illustration for each product it recommended,  including  details of the policy. It says 
she wouldve been made aware  that insurance wasnt  mandatory with the mortgage she was 
taking out and it was up to customers to choose if they wanted to have any. And it said that 
Mrs B wouldve  had to sign a separate application for the PPI. 
Connells said that once  the policy was in force,  Mrs B wouldve been sent a policy certificate  
that explained her right to cancel the policy if she hadnt wished to proceed with the cover. 
In response to our adjudicators view, Connells also said that Mrs B didnt mention having a 
medical condition  when she first complained  either to it or to us. So it isnt persuaded that 
she wouldve provided this information  to its representative when  taking out the PPI  so it 
cant reasonably  conclude that it sold the policy to Mrs B knowing that she might  experience  
difficulty making a claim. 
Ref: DRN25437952Connells says that as it cant be shown that Mrs B did fully disclose all relevant information, it 
cant be held accountable for possibly  recommending  a policy that restricted her ability to 
claim. 
Ive thought very carefully about all the information  Ive seen and been  told, including 
Connells response  to our adjudicator.
I think its possible, looking at what Connells  has told me about its sales process,  that it did 
recommend the policy to Mrs B. If so, I dont  think it was right for her. But even if Connells 
didnt recommend the PPI, this makes no difference  to the outcome because Ive not been  
shown that it provided her with enough  clear  information about the policy  when she applied 
for it.
The policy provided  cover  for up to 12 months in the event of accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. But I havent been shown  that  Connells did enough to point out to Mrs B a 
significant feature  of the policy  specifically,  the impact an ongoing health problem that 
shed seen her doctor about and had treatment  and counselling for in the preceding  
12 months would  have on the cover shed get under  the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Connells has said about the way it sold PPI to customers  
including the fact that discussions  wouldve included obtaining information in respect of her 
requirement for protection.
But I dont know how its representative wouldve  done that (if he or she did)  or if it was 
done in such a way that I can fairly  say that Mrs B wouldve understood the information she 
was being asked for and its implications. 
I accept that Mrs B wouldve probably  completed a separate application form for the policy  
and following the sale, a policy booklet  was sent which wouldve detailed the exclusion. 
But Im looking at how Connells sold this policy  to Mrs B rather than what happened 
following the sale. And from what Ive been told I cant reasonably say that Connells did give 
Mrs B clear  enough information about  the policy when  she was choosing  whether to buy it. 
I havent seen  anything to show me how (or if) the exclusion was set out in any of the 
documents she mightve been given or sent before applying for the cover (and the policy  
documents sent later dont in my view particularly highlight the information.) I dont know if 
Mrs B wouldve  necessarily seen information she had to look up in attached documents.  
Overall, I dont  feel I can fairly say that Connells made this important information clear 
enough to Mrs B when  she took out the PPI. 
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs B because she had a medical condition that wouldnt 
have been covered. It had been  diagnosed a couple of years before she took out the PPI 
and Mrs B has told us that her condition meant  shed sometimes  had to take time off work. 
I think if Mrs B had been aware that she wouldnt have been  able to claim for any absence 
related to this existing  health problem she wouldnt have thought PPI provided  her with good  
value. I say this because sickness cover was a significant part of the benefit she bought. 
And especially as shed been  treated for it so recently, I think at the time she took out the 
PPI shed have  felt it was likely she might need to take time off work again as a result of this 
medical condition.  
Ref: DRN25437953Ive taken into account that Mrs B wouldve been able to claim for other benefits under the 
policy. But I think Mrs B has lost out as a result of Connells  failings in this case, because 
I dont think shed have  taken out the policy if shed been properly informed.
Ive also taken into account that Connells says (in effect)  it couldnt  have known  about  her 
condition if Mrs B didnt mention it at the time. And thats right.  But the onus was on Connells  
to explain things clearly  enough to Mrs B so that she understood what details it needed  in 
order to provide her with good enough  information about the policy and how it would meet  
her needs.  And I dont  think  its likely  that Mrs B wouldve  not mentioned a health problem 
that shed been seeing her doctor about  and taken  time off work for, if directly and clearly  
asked about this. 
I dont think she appreciated the significance of having a pre-existing medical condition when 
she first complained to Connells or to us, which  explains why she didnt mention this sooner. 
But Connells  hasnt disputed the information Mrs B has told us and I think, in the 
circumstances, its fair for me to accept  it. Ive no reason to doubt what  Mrs B told us when 
our adjudicator made appropriate enquiries  about her situation  at the time she took this 
policy out. 
Looked at overall, on balance I agree with our adjudicator that Connells sold a policy to 
Mrs B that she wouldnt have taken out if shed appreciated the limited  benefits it offered her. 
This means  that I think Mrs B lost out as a result  of Connells failings   so it should take 
steps to put things right for her. It also means I dont need to deal with any of the other 
issues shes raised about the sale.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
no further commetns have  been received
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right
Connells should put Mrs B in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that the policy has been  cancelled already so Connells should:
Pay Mrs B the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Connells can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
Ref: DRN25437954 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Connells to take off tax from this interest. Connells must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Connells Limited to pay Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2543795