K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the advice he received from Aspira  Corporate Solutions Limited 
(Aspira) in 2009 to transfer his final salary  (defined  benefit)  occupational  pension scheme 
benefits to a Self-invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).  He says he was not made fully aware 
of the valuable pension benefits he was giving up by transferring, and the advice  to transfer 
was not appropriate in the circumstances.
background
In 2009, after receiving advice from Aspira, Mr P transferred his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) benefits to a money  purchase  SIPP. Mr P subsequently complained to Aspira  
that this transfer  was not in his best interests. Aspira did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said 
that it had supplied him with sufficient information so that he could make  a fully informed 
decision as to whether  to transfer. It also said he had complained too late  later that the 
time periods allowed  by the applicable  rules. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and I then considered  whether the complaint had 
been brought in time. I confirmed that it had been. An investigator at this service then went  
on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
The investigator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  that the final salary  
benefits were an important and valuable part of Mr Ps retirement provisions. He did not 
believe there was a realistic chance of the transferred benefits  equalling  the benefits that 
had been given up  considering the investment growth rate required. He did not believe that 
the potential for Mr P to use tax free case from the pension  to repay his mortgage justified 
the recommendation to transfer, and Mr P didnt use the money  for that purpose.  He didnt 
think that the other objectives recorded at the time justified the transfer.  He suggested that a 
calculation should  be performed to calculate if a loss had been caused.
Mr P accepted the investigators assessment. 
Aspira did not accept  the investigators  findings and made  some  further submissions. In 
summary it said:
The adviser clearly pointed out to Mr P that an expectation of returns of 7% would 
mean that the transfer would not match the benefits being lost. 
Although Mr P had said that he was informed that the OPS would only grow by a 
small amount each year, the TVAS report and the suitability  report both set out that 
the critical yield would not be met. 
Mr P was in a fully informed position  and it was because he wished to access  his 
benefits before the change of access from 50 to age 55 that he was happy to accept 
the risks. 
Based  on Mr Ps employment  service and the submissions he has made,  it believes 
Mr P understood the information supplied  to him.
Mr P wanted access and control  something he made use of after the transfer.
Ref: DRN25879742It agrees that this was a major proportion of Mr Ps pension funding but he also had 
rental income and his overall position  was taken into account.  It believes he was less 
reliant on this pension than is apparent. 
Mr P received statements and reviews  in subsequent years.  Whilst the value would 
fluctuate the reports clearly set out that the returns on his funds were nowhere near 
those required to match the OPS.
Mr P was aware of the rates required to match the OPS  benefits but the valuation  of 
8 April 2013 shows indicative  growth of only 1.98%. And the Performance  Report  of 
October 2013 to September 2014 shows a return of 4.7%  - which is less than half 
that necessary  to match the OPS benefits. This ought  to have given him concern. It 
says that the issue of time limits  should  therefore be reconsidered. 
my findings
jurisdiction - time limits
As Aspira will be aware, I considered whether Mr P has complained  in time in my decision 
dated 3 September 2020. In that decision I considered the reviews that Aspira  highlights.   
In the decision  I said:
The time limits  for making  a complaint are contained within  the DISP (Dispute Resolution) 
Rules. The specific time limits that are relevant to this complaint  are contained in DISP 2.8:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response or redress determination; or 
(2)  more than:
 
(a)  six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)  three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received.
The requirements that are particularly relevant here are that (Mr P) should have made his 
complaint within  six years  of the event complained of, or three years from when he became  
aware, or ought  reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for complaint.
In terms of the six year limit, the event  complained  of is the advice that was given to transfer 
his pension. That was given in 2009. The complaint was not made to Aspira  until 4 March  
2019. So that time limit has expired.
Consequently I have considered the three year limit. 
Ref: DRN25879743As (Mr P) first complained to Aspira on 4 March  2019, if I conclude  that he was aware, or 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware, of cause for complaint before 4 March 2016,  then his 
complaint will not have been made within the three  year time limit in our rules.
Principally (Mr P) has complained about  the advice to transfer his final salary pension  and 
the losses he believes he has suffered as a result. He says that the transfer was not in his 
best interests because  of the valuable pension benefits the final salary  scheme  provided.  He 
says he was not given a balanced assessment of the benefits or otherwise of transferring by 
Aspire at the time and the transfer was portrayed as being advantageous for him. 
Aspira suggests that regular reviews since 2009  should have put (Mr P) on notice of cause 
for complaint.  
I have seen a Pension  Comparison Report completed for (Mr P) dated 30 July 2009. This 
sets out information about  (Mr Ps) final salary pension entitlement.  It is noted that his 
pension is, currently valued at £17,711 per annum, payable from age 60. 
I have also seen a letter dated 18 August 2009  from Aspira to (Mr P) which  set out what it 
believed were his priorities   which were noted as being to access tax free cash  and reduce 
his mortgage.  The letter sets out that is was agreed to transfer  his pension so that tax free 
cash could be taken.  The letter said it enclosed a Suitability Report  also dated 18 August 
2009. This noted an objective of repaying (Mr Ps) mortgage by age 60 by using pension tax 
free cash. And utilising the transfer  of the final salary scheme to do so. It mentioned 
reviewing retirement objectives later, after tax free cash  had been  taken.  
 
I have seen various reports and financial plans, that Aspira has provided, that were 
undertaken with, or in respect,  of (Mr P) in the years after the advice was given. The 
information Aspira has provided indicates that many reviews were  undertaken, or financial 
reports produced, for (Mr P). But not all have been  supplied. So I will base my view on the 
reports and reviews I have seen. 
I have considered all the reviews or reports that have been supplied.  For example, I have 
seen: 
A Financial Planning  Report of 25 February 2010. This discusses (Mr Ps)future  
income needs and his assets, including his pensions. The plan indicates (Mr P) has 
sufficient assets  to support him in retirement  and, in summary,  says:
my report shows how you can maintain  a sustainable income during your 
retirement.
A Wealth Management  Financial  Plan dated 16 August  2013. The summary  of this 
report is:
Your current position shows you enjoy a healthy  surplus income each month.
Should you decide to retire  when you both reach age 60, assuming your expenditure
remains the same, you would continue to have a surplus income and your capital will
last throughout  your lifetimes.
You are on track to meet  your target retirement  income of £3,000 net per month.
Ref: DRN25879744You have  sufficient pension provision in place and you have sufficient capital to
afford your long-term plans including gifting monies  towards your children's
weddings.
A Cash Flow Analysis  for (Mr and Mrs P) that was completed in 2014.
The Summary of the report  was:
Your current position shows you enjoy a healthy  surplus income each month.
Should you retire at age 60, assuming your expenditure remains  the same,  you are
projected to have a surplus income  and your capital will last throughout your
lifetimes.
You are on track to meet  your target retirement  income of £3,000 net per month.
You have  sufficient pension provision in place and you have sufficient capital to
afford your long-term plans including gifting monies  towards your children's
weddings.
You have  no liability  to Inheritance Tax (IHT)  at present. As your estate continues to
grow in value an IHT liability may arise in the future.
As the majority of your earned income  is in the form of rental income there  is no
significant Impact to your cash flow in the event of a catastrophe such  as death or
illness.
An Aspira Wealth Management Review document dated 30 November 2016. This 
sets out that this current value  of (Mr Ps) pension was about £215,000   which is 
significantly in excess of the original amount received  even taking into account 
about £36,000 in withdrawals. The report noted  growth of about 30%. 
There are no references in the reports I have seen which were issued after (Mr P) 
transferred, which  compare (Mr Ps) position currently or in future to the Northern Rock 
pension scheme.  
The reports  I have seen  are positive about  (Mr Ps) financial  situation and his pension  
provision. They do not provide comparisons with the situation in 2009 and do not reference 
it. I do not see why these reviews would  give (Mr P) any cause for concern about the advice 
he had received in 2009.  And I do not believe (Mr P), as he says,  would have had cause to 
review the advice he had been  given in 2009 based  on the information he was supplied with 
after that point.  
The fact that (Mr P) had, factually, taken  tax free cash and income since 2009  would  not in 
my view give any awareness of cause for complaint about the advice he had been given or 
transfer undertaken by Aspira. On the face of it, taking tax free cash or simply receiving 
income gives no indication that the transfer  itself could  have been inappropriate or 
unsuitable.   
 
So I had not seen evidence that Mr P had cause for complaint or ought to have cause for 
complaint before 4 March 2016, or indeed until he met with a new financial adviser in 2019  
and was made aware he might have cause for complaint. 
Ref: DRN25879745Aspira has now said that statements/reviews of 2013/2014  should  have  made Mr P aware of 
cause for complaint. However I do not agree. Firstly  that would  require Mr P to have 
compared and contrasted  the information  he was getting with information he had been given 
about four or five years  previously, and at a mid point some  years before he was due to 
take benefits. Whilst I note what Aspira has said, I do not believe there is evidence that Mr P 
had the level of understanding of pensions that would mean that he would have done that or 
should be expected to. Secondly the transfer  was not materially  concerned with matching of 
exceeding the benefits of the OPS,  it was concerned with access  to those benefits  (for 
example in terms of mortgage repayment) and the security of those benefits.  Materially Mr 
Ps complaint concerns  the options  and information  he was given in that respect  and those 
issues are not explored or highlighted by the provision of performance  statistics.  
I remain of the view that Mr P was not aware of cause for complaint prior to 4 March 2016 
and so he has complained in time.
merits of the complaint 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a Pension  Comparisons  Report for Mr P dated 30 July 2009.
This set out Mr Ps final salary OPS benefits   including  that he had 20 years service  and a 
normal retirement age of 60 under that scheme.  As at the date of leaving the scheme his 
deferred pension  was about  £18,000 a year. This would, in the main,  be revalued up to 
retirement at RPI, and the subsequent pension payable would be revalued at RPI (subject to 
a maximum). Tax free cash (TFC) would also be available up to 25% of the pension value. 
Using a reasonable assumption as to future revaluations, Mr P could expect a pension at 
normal retirement date of about  £24,000  (which, as discussed, would be increased in 
payment). A TFC amount  of about  £113,000 was projected.  
Upon death 50% of Mr Ps pension income would be paid to his spouse, plus a payment 
could be made to his children until they were 21.  
It was said that there were some benefits in transferring to a personal  pension:
a) Control
Your existing arrangements are in a 'Defined Benefits Scheme' and upon transfer would 
move to a 'Defined Contribution Scheme' policy.  Whilst  transferring your Pension Rights into 
a plan that it is personally owned and controlled  by you, I must point out that the pension you
receive would  be dependent  upon the success of the underlying assets in which it is 
invested and the prevailing annuity  rates at retirement. The resulting pension could be more  
or less than the fund pension you would be giving up.
b) Investment  Flexibility/Risk
The transfer value  can be invested into asset  classes and funds which match  your attitude  to
risk, as established through our Attitude  To Risk Questionnaire that we completed recently.
As your views on investments  change or you approach retirement, you will have the flexibility
Ref: DRN25879746to change your fund choice(s.) You should  also note that Investment returns  in Personal
Pensions are not guaranteed and the value  of your plan can go down as well as up.
c) Tax Free Cash Potential
You will be entitled to take 25% of the total Personal Pension fund in the form of a TFC lump
sum.
Currently your entitlement to any TFC lump  sum at retirement is governed by Occupational
Pension Regulations. Numerous pension changes came into force  on the 6 April 2006, 'A'
Day, As noted earlier, at retirement the scheme will pay any TFC lump  sum using the better
of the old and 'new' TFC rules. As a result, at retirement you will be able to take as a
minimum a TFC lump  sum of 25% of the notional pension fund value at this time.
d) Retirement  Flexibility and Taxation
Currently how, when and what  you will receive  is to a large extent dictated to you by the
Rules of the Scheme. By transferring to a Personal Pension arrangement you can decide
when you retire. Similarly, you can decide on the type of income you wish to receive. For
example, you could purchase  an annuity  of your choice, or go into an Income  Drawdown
arrangement. A drawdown facility will provide  flexibility to change  the levels of income on a
regular basis, together  with the amount of TFC you receive.
There are many options available to retiring  individuals  with Personal Pension funds and you
will have the ability to choose the type and manner of income you receive in retirement.
Further information about some of the choices can be found  later in this Report.
Under a Personal  Pension arrangement, deciding how and when you retire  can have a
considerable effect on how much tax you pay.
e) Potentially higher Lump Sum Death Benefits  pre Retirement
If you die, potentially the full fund value of a Personal Pension  can be paid to your nominated
beneficiary(s) or alternatively  if you haven't  nominated someone then it will be paid in
accordance with the terms  of your will.
Lump sum death  benefits under a Personal Pension  arrangement are currently  made to
nominated beneficiaries free of any Income,  capital  gains or inheritance tax at the time of
payment.
It was then set out what the situation might  be if Mr P transferred:
What would be the situation if you moved  your funds to a Personal  Pension
arrangement?
The trustees of your existing scheme  are offering a total transfer value of (about £266,000) 
and this includes (about  £161,000) Protected  Rights.
Using a transfer  value of (about £266,000) and assuming growth of 7% per annum, your
projected Personal Pension  fund at age 60 is illustrated  at (about £488,000). This could 
produce an income of approximately (£16,000) per annum (assuming an annuity  interest  
rate of 4.1%.)  Alternatively, the projected fund could  pay a TFC lump sum of (about 122,000) 
plus a reduced pension of (about £12,000) per annum.
Ref: DRN25879747Critical Yields
To put this another way, in order to match an income equal to the one that is offered by the
(OPS), any alternative pension investment would need to grow at 10.8%  per annum if you 
opted to take a pension  income (only) at retirement. The critical yield (CY) would fall to 9.7%  
If you opted to take a TFC lump  sum and a reduced pension income at this time. Industry 
standard illustrations  normally use growth rates of between 5% and 9% per annum.
An assessment was then set out as to how likely  it would be that transferring to a personal  
pension would achieve a better result than the benefits provided by the OPS.  If Mr P just 
took income then it was set out that there was a 12% chance that a level of growth would be 
achieved that would  match the critical yield. If TFC was taken it was 27%. 
There was some detail about  the level of benefits  that would be provided  if the OPS  entered 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF).  About  £16,000  or £20,000 was projected depending 
when the scheme  entered the PPF. 
It is therefore apparent  that Mr P could likely  expect significantly  less pension benefits if he 
transferred. 
I have also seen an Aspira  pension  transfer  suitability report dated on 18 August 2009 that 
set out its recommendations. 
In the covering letter to that report it was stated that:
Assessing your priorities
During our meetings  we focused on your main priority which was to access your tax free 
cash before  age 55 and use this constructively to lower  your mortgage and enable your (sic) 
to attain your target retirement age of 60. We discussed your current  circumstances in some  
detail, your goals for the future and the financial planning options available to you. As part of 
this exercise, I completed a detailed fact-find to record  the information  you gave to me.
Agreed actions
After assessing  your circumstances and completing research of the current marketplace  I 
was able to present you with your options and we agreed that we would undertake  the 
following plan of action:
Transfer your Northern Rock  benefits  to Scottish  Widows  and access your Tax Free 
Cash from age 50.
Continue our discussions once  the tax free cash has been  taken and undertake a full 
financial review.
In the attached report Aspira set out that:
Why was advice required?
During our discussion you explained  to me that you required assistance  for the following
reasons
Pensions - Ability to access tax free cash before age 55 and use to vest plan and
pay off mortgage.
Ref: DRN25879748Full financial review of retirement  and Investment,
Use of redundancy pay.
Mr P was recorded as having the following objectives:
Retirement objectives
We talked about  your retirement objectives  and you confirmed to me the following:
Target retirement age: 60
Income required in retirement: To be finalised in our meeting  in September.
Death benefits:  Fund  to go to wife.
Personal objectives in retirement:  To maintain standard of living.
It was then set out:
We also discussed other factors that are Important to you. Your main  aim is to retire  at age
60 and you wish to arrange  your retirement  planning,  investments and mortgage  so that this
target can be achieved.
Currently your mortgage  is on part repayment  and part interest only and runs beyond  age 
60. Our discussions to date have focused  on using your tax free cash  to reduce your 
mortgage and bring  the completion date to age 60. Once this has been  achieved we will then 
be able to ascertain  what levels of disposable income you have and the required levels  of 
funding needed  to reach you target retirement age.
Currently the earliest that retirement benefits  can be accessed is age 50 and by April 2010
this is being Increased to age 55. As you reach age 50 in September you are currently  able
to access your pension fund and utilise your tax free cash. However If you wait until after
April 2010 you will not be able to access the funds until September  2014.  This was an
important factor to you as your intention is to retire  at age 60 and by waiting a further 5
years this will greatly reduce your options and flexibility  in achieving this goal. Also the
(OPS) is currently in deficit and the concern is that the fund value they have offered you has 
the possibility  of being reduced in the future  should  you undertake
this exercise at a later date. It is therefore the preference to undertake  this exercise  before
April 2010.
The plan is to access your full entitlement to Tax Free Cash (25%) and use this to put
towards paying off part of your mortgage. The exact amount that will be put towards the
mortgage will be covered  in more detail in future  discussions. We will also take into account
during these discussions the £70,000  to £80,000  you hold on deposit and the best way to
structure all of these  funds. In the short term, until the Tax Free Cash  is accessed the funds
will be held in the Scottish Widows Control Account Fund. This fund pays  Bank of England
Base Rate and therefore is subject  to investment market volatility. On the same note this is
currently providing very low returns. Once  the tax fee cash has been  accessed we will then
put in place a more  appropriate Investment portfolio to enable you to meet your medium/long
term goals.
Once age 50 is attained  the Tax Free Cash from the pension  will then be accessed. At this
point the pension fund will then go in "Drawdown".  We will again discuss  at this time the use
of the funds to lower  your mortgage,  investment and plan towards your retirement,
encompassed in this discussion will be a full financial review looking at putting in place plans
Ref: DRN25879749to meet  your target.
There followed an analysis of the transfer:
Statistical Analysis
Using the report I prepared, we discussed the importance of using key statistical data
to assess the probability of a Personal Pension meeting the same level of income that
could be achieved from the Northern Rock Pension Scheme. A summary of the data
is shown below:
Critical Yield Required to match the full Income  benefits = 10.8%  per
annum. The future level of investment return from a Personal Pension  which  we
consider is a reasonable target to achieve Is 7% per annum. This target  has
therefore not been achieved = FAIL.
Attitude to Risk probability of matching the benefits = 12% using the
Normal Retirement Age of 60. A result  of 51% or better means that based  on
your Attitude  to Risk and the various assumptions  made in calculating  the critical
yield, Aspira Corporate Solutions can recommend a transfer. This target has
therefore not been achieved s FAIL.
Critical Yield Required to match the reduced income/Tax Free Cash
benefits = 9.7% per annum. The future level of Investment return from a
Personal Pension which we consider Is a reasonable target to achieve Is 7% per
annum. This target has therefore  not been  achieved = FAIL.
Attitude to Risk probability of matching the reduced income  /Tax Free
Cash benefits = 27% using the Normal  Retirement Age of 60. A result of
51% or better means that based  on your Attitude to Risk and the various
assumptions made in calculating the critical yield, Aspira Corporate  Solutions can
recommend a transfer. This target has therefore not been achieved = FAIL.
Therefore, based  on these statistical analysis alone  Aspira Corporate Solutions cannot
recommend a transfer to a Personal Pension.
Our further discussions
After assessing  the statistical analysis, I made you aware that it was important to
consider the other factors and differences between the (OPS) and a Personal Pension 
arrangement to ensure that we had covered all of the areas that you needed to be aware of.
We talked through  the following areas  and the importance of them to you:
Ownership and Control: You wish to personally have ownership and control of
your retirement benefits to provide greater flexibility on how, when and what  form of
pension Income you receive  at retirement  e.g. an Income Drawdown or Phased
Retirement pension. This was a factor  in your decision to transfer.
Flexibility over your Retirement Date:  The Normal  Retirement Date  of the
Northern Rock Scheme  was age 60. Although  generally the Trustees  of the scheme
would allow the pension to be taken at a different date, you wanted to remove  any
uncertainty. This was a factor in your decision to transfer.
Ref: DRN258797410Spouse's Pension Benefits: This was not a factor in your decision to transfer, as
you are aware that in a Personal  Pension, the benefits can still be paid to your wife.
Potentially Increased Lump Sum Death Benefits: You wish to potentially
increase any lump sum death  benefits  pre retirement. This was very important to you
as you would like to leave  your family (or beneficiaries) with the potential  for a larger
lump sum. This was a factor in your decision to transfer. You are aware that if you
are married  at the time of your death, any of the transfer that derives from Protected
Rights must be used to purchase  a pension for your spouse.
Concerns about  the Funding  Position of the Northern Rock  Pension
Scheme: The scheme Is currently in deficit. You appreciate that in the event of the
scheme being wound-up and entering  the Pension  Protection Fund you would receive
some amount of protection. However, you wish to remove any uncertainty  and
secure the benefits solely in your own name. This was a factor in your decision to
transfer.
Breaking ties with the Northern Rock Pension  Scheme: Despite well publicised  redundancy, 
you left your employer on good terms. This was not a factor  In your decision to transfer.
My Advice  after considering all aspects
Following our discussion you decided  to proceed with a transfer.
Although I explained the possible consequences  of failing both the Critical Yield and
Attitude to Risk analysis  and the resulting chances  of matching the scheme benefits
at the Normal Retirement  Date, you decided to proceed with a transfer for the
following reasons:
1. Ownership and Control
2. Concerns about the Funding  Position  of the Northern Rock Pension Scheme
3. Flexibility over your Retirement  Date
4. Ability to lower mortgage  and look to meet target of retiring at age 60.
On the basis that you fully understood the risks involved, I was able to advise you to
transfer the funds  to a new policy with Scottish Widows.
A, Final Salary  Scheme  Transfer  Client Attitude Questionnaire was also completed for Mr 
P. In general this indicated that Mr P wanted  flexibility with respect of his pension benefits. 
And it recorded that he had, serious concerns regarding the financial stability  of my ex-
employer and I do not wish for my benefits  to remain under his control.  It was recorded that 
he wished to retire  at 60. 
Under Additional  Details it was recorded  that a specific reason for transferring was utilising 
TFC at 50 to reduce  mortgage/invest to meet age 60 NRD.
It was set out that Mr P was 49 years  old, married and had three dependent  children. He had 
a mortgage of around £140,000, cash savings of between  £70,000  to £80,000  and several 
endowment policies worth about £80,000. His OPS  value was about  £266,000. 
Ref: DRN258797411From the details recorded on the fact finding  information at the time it appear that Mr Ps 
mortgage was split into two parts, one part running to 60 and one to 65. One part (£80,000)  
was interest only and one part (£60,000) was repayment.
There were some notes taken at the time:
(Mr P) falls in the window  of being able to access funds  before age 55. Following 
discussions it is agreed to access the TFC from age 50 by transferring funds to drawdown. 
Further advice is then to be taken in order to structure savings/investment/pension/mortgage 
in order to target retiring at age 60 without a mortgage outstanding. Due to timescales   
deadlines from (OPS)  and holidays the funds  will be firstly moved and further discussions 
around utilising  TFC will then take place.
An attitude  to risk questionnaire was also completed.  I note that a number of the initial 
answers appear to have  been crossed out and substituted  for answers  that show  a higher 
attitude to risk. The initial answers would indicate  a low tolerance to taking investment risk. 
As it was, the amended answers showed a tolerance towards the lower end of a moderate 
risk grading. 
There is a statement showing the funding level of Mr Ps OPS as at 2006. This shows the 
scheme was in surplus.
I think the significance  of these pension benefits  for Mr P and his family should be noted. 
They represented 20 years service. It isnt recorded that he held other pension benefits  and 
as Mr P was 49 at the time these  benefits  were likely to make  up a very significant part, 
probably the majority,  of his pension savings. As set out, these were defined benefits  with 
guaranteed levels of income, increases in income and death benefits.  In transferring Mr P 
was giving up those  guarantees  and was then dependent on the fortunes of whatever assets 
his pension money was subsequently invested  in. This was a serious  step to take and there 
would need to be very good reasons for it. Whilst Mr P did have some other assets, I am of 
the view that these pension benefits were crucial to his security in retirement.
That is especially so as, as also set out, once  transferred the benefits were  highly unlikely to 
match the benefits being given up  they were  likely  to be significantly less. I have set out 
that detail earlier in this decision. 
Aspira did set out in some of the documentation  that the benefits were likely  to be less by 
transferring. However  I do not believe that simply setting this out was sufficient in the 
circumstances. I say this because of the specific circumstances and requirements  Mr P had.
It is clear that Mr P believes the ability to take benefits  at age 50 was given too much  
prevalence as was the status OPS  provider. He says he was not given a balanced  picture of 
all his options.
In this respect I note that his target retirement age was 60. That was the same  normal 
retirement age under  his OPS  at which point a significant income would be provided  as 
well as the option to take ,in all likelihood, TFC of over £100,000. So his current  OPS  
benefits would go a long way to enabling  his retirement at 60. A material  reason for 
transferring which  is noted at various points was Mr Ps desire to repay his mortgage. By the 
time he was 60 he would likely been  most, if not all, of the way to achieving that in any 
event. Only some of his mortgage had a term into retirement. Some  of that mortgage was 
being repaid by repayment method with the rest interest-only. Mr P had endowment policies 
Ref: DRN258797412which could have been used to repay that interest only element.  And if there was a balance 
needed then he had significant  sums in cash to do that. And even if that were  not the case, 
then he could take TFC from his OPS to do that  he did not have to transfer and forgo the 
valuable guaranteed benefits that made up most of his likely pension provision.  
In my view Mr P did not need  to transfer  to achieve  his aims. What is crucial  when giving  up 
benefits like this, which is not likely in the best interests of the individual, is a full and 
balanced picture of all the options. It is in my view clear that Mr P should have been  advised 
that he did not need to transfer to achieve  his (documented)  objectives.  
In terms of the security  of his OPS benefits, I appreciate that there was, likely,  comment at 
the time about  the health of Mr Ps employer.  But that does  not necessarily translate into 
concerns about  the OPS. It has been commented  that the pension was in deficit  although it 
seems that in 2006 it was in surplus. Even  if it had been in deficit in 2009,  this does not 
mean that Mr Ps pension  was necessarily in jeopardy  many pension  schemes  run deficits.  
It is not a reason in itself to transfer and Mr P should have been clearly advised  of this. As 
some of documentation sets out, Mr P would be provided with significant benefits even if the 
OPS entered  the PPF. It should have been explained to him in plain English that the risk of 
remaining in the OPS were not great  and there  was certainly more to be lost in transferring.  
I dont believe Mr P was given a balanced picture and he likely agreed  to the transfer  without 
being fully informed of all his options.  If he had been  I do not believe he would have 
transferred. I therefore uphold his complaint. 
fair compensation
Aspira must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision. 
Aspira may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as
Ref: DRN258797413set out above.  My decision is that Aspira should  pay Mr P the amount produced  by that 
calculation - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Aspira pays Mr P the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Aspira  doesnt have to do
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to court to
ask for the balance.  Mr P may want to get independent legal advice before deciding
whether to accepting  my final decision.
In addition, Aspira should pay Mr P £300 for the upset and inconvenience he has been 
caused by the transfer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision, I uphold the complaint and order  Aspira Corporate 
Solutions Limited to calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2587974