K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent Mrs L and FICL a provisional decision on 8 May 2019 to explain why I wasnt intending 
to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs L that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs L says nothing was said about PPI when  she took out the store  card and it was added 
without her knowledge.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Ls application form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI with a box to be ticked if Mrs L wanted to take it out. And there is a tick in the 
box.
Mrs L has said the salesperson didnt point  out the box to her and that she only took the 
store card in order to get a discount  on purchases. But, if Mrs L didnt want the PPI, I think  
she could have left the box blank. And Mrs L shouldnt have signed the application form if 
she wasnt happy or didnt agree with what it said.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think FICL  did make  it clear to Mrs L that she had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mrs L chose  to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs L any personalised advice about the PPI, 
so I dont think it recommended  it to her. This means FICL didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for Mrs L. But it did still have to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Mrs L was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the policy  
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. So 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong
Mrs L has mentioned that she had a pension from her employer and an income  replacement  
policy, so she didnt  need the PPI. But the PPI couldve  paid out in different circumstances to 
her pension. And she hasnt been able to give us any details about the income  protection 
policy. So I still think the PPI would have been  useful  for her. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs L off taking it 
out.
Mrs L has also raised a legal principle which says that, where there is ambiguity in a contract  
term, it should be interpreted against  the party who drafted the contract. But I dont think the 
interpretation of any particular contract  term is an issue  here. Ive explained above that I 
think FICL made it clear  to Mrs L that she had a choice about  taking the PPI and that I dont 
think better information about  the PPI wouldve stopped her taking it out. So I dont think this 
principle affects my conclusions.
Ref: DRN24574082Mrs L has also said that her husbands  PPI complaint had exactly the same circumstances 
as hers,  but has been upheld. So she feels FICL is discriminating against her on the grounds  
of her gender by not also upholding her complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service looks at all complaints individually and based on their 
own circumstances. So the outcome  of one complaint doesnt affect the outcome of another.  
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  FICLs decision not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint was 
based on anything  other than the circumstances of the complaint.  And having  looked at the 
circumstances of her complaint, Ive explained above why I dont feel the PPI was mis-sold 
and so why I dont think her complaint should  be upheld.
I said Id consider any further information  either Mrs L or FICL  sent me.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Neither Mrs L nor FICL sent in any further  information. And so I see no reason to change  the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So I still dont think this complaint should be 
upheld, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2457408