K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 30 March 2019, which  is attached and forms part of 
this decision, setting out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party  responded 
with any evidence or comments for me to consider.  So based  on my previous findings, and 
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society  doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Yorkshire Building Society has to pay back  to Mr 
and Mrs S any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DEICISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2002
alongside a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold them the
PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26574802Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say PPI was not mentioned at the time of the sale and it was added to their account 
without their knowledge. But based on the evidence  Ive seen  I think YBS made it clear that Mr and 
Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why 
they cant  remember this now. I say this because Ive seen a copy of a separate  PPI application  form 
which Mr and Mrs S saw and signed. In this unemployment cover has been selected and the benefit 
amount for each party has been entered. This suggests that Mr and Mrs S discussed  the cover they 
required and it was selected on the PPI application form accordingly. This application form was 
signed by Mr and Mrs S  so I think this reflected  what they wanted at the time.
YBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it didnt have  to check if it was right for them. But it 
did have to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed  to decide if the PPI was right for 
them.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that he didnt think  YBS made the exclusions 
around pre-existing  medical conditions  clear, and as Mr S said he had a medical condition at the time, 
he didnt think Mr and Mrs S wouldve chosen  to take out the PPI had they known about this 
exclusion. But I dont  agree with this. Mr and Mrs S chose to take out unemployment cover only,  so 
the policy  was only designed  to cover them in the event they were  made redundant.  And the 
exclusions around  pre-existing medical  conditions  dont affect their ability to claim in the event of 
redundancy. So I dont think the complaint should  be upheld on this basis.
Its also possible some of the other information YBS gave Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were  
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have  been useful  for them  
if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs S say that they had some  savings  and also couldve relied on family to support them  - but 
that they would be reluctant  to ask. I agree that asking family for money  isnt always  easy, and help 
from others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change. However, upon a successful 
claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and on top of any savings  Mr and Mrs S had. 
This meant  that they didnt have to ask others for help and their savings were  free to use for other 
expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful for them.
This means  YBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. But
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit share  it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any extra interest
they paid because of that.
YBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month because  the
Ref: DRN26574803commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also
pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so I dont think Yorkshire Building Society has 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But I do intend to instruct Yorkshire Building Society to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 30 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657480