K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) wont  pay under her home 
emergency policy to fix a leak in the water supply to her home.
background
Miss H said that she had a home emergency policy with BGI. She asked  BGI to send an 
engineer, to repair a leak in a pipe that supplied water  to her home. But when BGIs engineer 
attended, he said that the leak was on a shared pipe, and so he said that it wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. 
Miss H said her policy set out that the water  supply pipe from the boundary  of her property to 
her home was covered. And the only exclusion under the policy was for any water supply 
pipe which  doesnt  supply your home. This pipe did supply her home. She thought  that BGI 
should fix the pipe.
BGI said that when  its first engineer attended, in May 2018,  he couldnt locate any faults  with 
the pipework.  BGI has also since said that when  a plumber visited on 10 July 2018, that 
plumber identified that Miss H has a shared  mains  pipe, so the engineer couldnt just shut 
that off and do this job. 
BGI said that it knew that Miss H had been  told by her local water  authority that she should 
replace the pipework in her property. But it said she wasnt covered under  the policy.  It said 
that for it to do this work,  Miss H would need  to have an external stopcock in the street and 
one inside the boundaries of her property. BGI said that this was in line with the conditions  
set out on page 30 of her policy book.
BGI said that it thought that it couldve  provided better service when Miss H tried to reach it, 
to book an appointment, so it would pay £50 to make up for that. It sent Miss H a cheque. 
But it said that it still thought that the problems with the water pipe werent covered because 
the issue had been diagnosed as originating from a shared mains pipe, and so it was 
excluded under the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Our investigator asked  BGI some further  questions. BGI said that the leak was on the mains  
pipe, and that it was shared. But our investigator said that didnt seem  to clear up whether 
the leak was on Miss Hs property, or outside  her boundaries.  In response, BGI offered to 
visit, to take a picture of where the leak was. 
But when our investigator spoke to Miss H, she said that her local water authority was now 
having the work done. Miss H said shed  had to agree to that, as the authority was 
threatening to take court action. She would have to pay £600 for the work. The authority was 
going to replace the mains water  pipe completely, with new fittings in the back  garden  and 
new stopcocks. The old water supply  would be disconnected. All this was being done  
because there was a leak on the mains supply somewhere, but no one could locate it. 
In response to this, our investigator suggested  to BGI that this complaint should  be upheld.  
He said that it seemed  reasonable  to replace pipework if there was a leak which  couldnt  be 
located. He also said that hed been  reading the policy terms, and he couldnt  see any 
indication that the work  that Miss H was now having to pay for wouldnt be covered. So he 
thought BGI should pay. 
Ref: DRN22412652BGI wanted  some time to think about this, and to ask the plumbers who work for it about 
what our investigator had said. Our investigator agreed to that. That was in early  December. 
BGI got back in touch  at the end of January, to say that there  wasnt an issue with the repair  
not being covered, it was just that the engineer couldnt switch  the water  off because it 
wouldve shut off water to a number of properties.  
Our investigator said that didnt explain why BGI hadnt agreed  to pay for repairs, or even 
whether it still thought  that it didnt need  to pay for them. Although our investigator had 
prompted BGI to set out its view on this a number  of times since then, BGI hadnt  
responded. 
In the meantime, Miss H sent us a copy of her invoice which asks her to pay £600  for her 
share of the cost of the replacement of a shared water supply pipe that supplies her home,  
and a small number  of others. The invoice says its for renewal with internal  connections to 
her home. 
Our investigator sent this invoice to BGI, and said he thought  that BGI should  pay it. In reply,  
BGI said that Miss H wasnt covered  because  the terms and conditions of its policy  said that 
shared drains  were  excluded. BGI said that it couldnt fix a shared drain  without switching off 
the water, and leaving all the other  properties without water. 
Our investigator replied  that the water authority did have  permission  to switch off the water, 
and when it did, it couldnt find the leak. So it decided to replace the whole system.  Our 
investigator said he thought thats  what BGI wouldve  done  too, if it had done the work. 
Our investigator also said he thought Miss H was being asked to pay for the cost of replacing  
pipework that connects to the shared system. He didnt think the invoice included any 
payment for replacing the shared system itself. And he thought BGI should pay the invoice. 
BGI hasnt responded further to that, so our investigator passed this complaint to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I thought there had been a considerable amount of confusion  in this case, so I started by 
setting out what  I thought  had happened. The information we had wasnt  complete. But it 
seemed to me, given how long it had taken  BGI to respond to our enquiries, that the best 
way forward was not for me to ask BGI further questions about  this complaint, but just to 
set out here what I thought seemed most likely  to have happened.  
-BGI attended Miss Hs property  in May, and couldnt find anything wrong with the 
pipework. It then went out again.  Its internal notes  suggest  this was in July, although its 
final response letter says August.  
-On the second  visit, BGI said that it couldnt isolate the leak, because  it couldnt switch 
off the water.  The water supply to Miss Hs house is shared with a small number of other 
properties, and the stopcock that BGI wouldve needed  to use to shut off water to her 
house controlled the water to all of those properties. 
Ref: DRN22412653-It wasnt clear, however, that BGI had actually identified where the leak was at any point. 
I noted that it hadnt found the leak on the first visit, that the water  authority couldnt find 
the leak either, and that BGI didnt seek to correct our investigator, when he said he 
didnt think that BGI had ever found the leak. For all those reasons, I didnt think  it was 
likely that BGIs  engineer  had found the leak on the second visit either.
-If there  was a leak, that no one could find, it seemed reasonable to say that the pipework 
should be replaced. Our investigator  thought that this was what  BGI wouldve done  if it 
had done the work.  I thought that too.
-But BGI didnt do the work. It told Miss H she wasnt  covered. It had given a number  of 
different reasons for that. 
-BGI suggested that these repairs werent covered, because this was a shared pipe. It 
also said that they werent covered  because  it was a shared  drain.  And it said that the 
leak wasnt covered  because there wasnt  a separate stopcock  for Miss Hs property. I 
commented on each  of those statements.
-The leak was on a water supply to the property, not a drain  taking water  away. Miss Hs 
policy treats plumbing bringing fresh water into the property differently to drains taking 
water away.  So the provisions in the policy about shared drains werent  relevant here. 
-There was no exclusion which said that BGI doesnt cover shared mains supplies.  The 
policy says it covers  
oAll repairs to the plumbing system on your property, including:
o
oYour water supply  pipe from the boundary of your property to your home. 
-Under whats not covered  the policy says
oAny water supply pipe that doesnt  supply your home
-I thought that meant that a shared water supply pipe is covered, as long as it supplies 
Miss Hs water, and its within  the boundary of her home. A shared pipe is only excluded  
if its outside her property, or if its inside her boundary  but only supplies other  people,  
not her. 
-BGI also mentioned something elsewhere in the policy  book. It stated that the customer  
needs to have an external stopcock in the street and one inside the boundaries, in order 
for us to carry out any work without  affecting  the neighbours And it referred  to page 30 
of her policy booklet. So I looked  at that too.
-Like our investigator,  I could  find nothing of relevance on page 30 of Miss Hs policy 
booklet. Page 31 does  include a provision on shared  mains water supplies.  But that just 
says 
oIf we cant  turn off the external water  supply stopcock  to your home to complete 
your repair  its up to you to get your water supplier to turn it off.
-That wasnt an exclusion that would justify  BGI saying that Miss H wasnt  covered for this 
work. 
-I considered all the provisions that BGI had pointed  to. And I hadnt seen anything to 
make me think repairs to the pipe Miss H wanted  BGI to fix werent covered under her 
policy. 
Ref: DRN22412654-I didnt think that BGI necessarily made  a mistake  when  it didnt carry out the work on the 
pipes on its second visit. I thought  it was both fair and reasonable for BGI to say then 
that it wouldnt just shut off the water to some other properties  to complete this job. 
-But I didnt think that meant BGI could refuse to do the work at all. I thought  that there 
were other options to fix this leak. I thought that BGI should, at this stage, have explored 
with Miss H whether  she could  get the agreement  of her neighbours to turn the water off 
while it did this work.  I hadnt seen  anything to suggest that BGI did that, either formally, 
or informally while its engineer was on site. 
-If it wasnt possible to get the neighbours to agree to shut off the water briefly  to allow for 
repairs, then I thought that BGI wouldve been able to say to Miss H that it wouldnt do 
the work  unless she got the proper  authority  to turn off the supply. 
-But I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for BGI to say that the work wasnt covered.
-Because BGI said it wouldnt do the work, I thought that Miss H had no alternative but to 
agree to have  the work done  by her water authority, which by now had run out of 
patience and was threatening  legal action. So Miss H had to allow the authority to carry 
out a full replacement of her shared mains and her individual supply pipes.  Shed  been 
charged £600 for this. 
-Our investigator asked Miss H if she could get a more detailed bill, and she said she 
couldnt. He thought  that the invoice that Miss H received was just for reconnecting her 
home to the shared supply. I wasnt sure that was right. I thought it seemed to be both a 
part share of renewing the shared supply, and for reconnecting  her home to that supply. 
-So now I needed to think  about whether it was fair to ask BGI to pay this invoice. I 
understood that it was possible that BGI couldve done this work more cheaply.  Or it may 
be, if BGI had investigated fully, it couldve shown that this wasnt  something  that was 
covered under Miss Hs policy. 
-I think it was more  likely than not that this work  was covered under Miss Hs policy. But I 
said we wouldnt ever know that for sure.  I thought that BGI had lost its chance to check  
whether this work was covered when it wrongly  turned down Miss Hs claim.  
-Because BGI wrongly turned down Miss Hs claim, she had to pay £600 for work that she 
may have been able to claim for. If she had made a claim, she would only have paid £50 
excess. And I thought that this had also caused Miss H a considerable amount of 
distress, at least some of which couldve been avoided if BGI hadnt wrongly turned 
down her claim. 
-In these circumstances, I thought that BGI should pay Miss H the £600 shed been 
invoiced for this work, minus the £50 excess  which applies to her plumbing and drains  
cover.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss H said that she was happy to accept the decision, but she wanted me to know that 
shed never  received the payment of £50 that BGI said that it had sent her for the problems 
shed experienced getting in touch with it. Our investigator mentioned this to BGI, and asked  
Ref: DRN22412655it to comment  on that in its response. BGI replied to object to my decision,  but didnt 
comment on the compensation  payment  it said it had sent out.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind, but I have 
redrafted the award slightly, to reflect that Miss H may not have  received  a compensation 
payment. When I wrote  my provisional decision, I thought shed been sent that.
When BGI wrote to us, it said that it didnt agree with my findings.
BGI said it was clear that even after the water  authority dug, it couldnt find the source of the 
leak. That was why it had replaced the entire  run and installed a separate stop cock for 
Miss H. BGI said that would suggest  that Miss H had a shared run previously, which  was its 
initial diagnosis, therefore based on that, Miss H was not covered for the repair.
Its disappointing to see this comment from BGI, as it doesnt appear to recognise  both that 
our service  has always accepted that Miss H had a shared water  supply  pipe, and that, after 
checking her policy  carefully, Ive concluded that there is no exclusion in Miss Hs policy that 
means a shared pipe like this isnt covered.
BGI said that it would  have expected  Miss H to give it a reasonable amount of time and 
opportunity to carry out an investigation or repair. It said that Miss H had refused to let one of 
its senior engineers  attend. And it said that it would also like to note that the experts  in this 
matter, the water authority, were unable  to find the source of the leak. 
BGI hasnt previously referred  directly to Miss H not allowing a senior engineer to attend. 
Theres no sign of that in the initial notes  about  her claim. So it seems  likely that what BGI is 
referring to here is its offer to attend the property to take a picture of the leak,  an offer Ive 
noted it made as part of the investigation. When our investigator asked Miss H about that, 
she said that the water authority was replacing  the pipe. I dont think  it would  be 
unreasonable for Miss H to refuse to agree to a visit from BGIs senior engineer  to look at a 
leak which was no longer likely to be there.
BGI has also said the water authority couldnt find the leak either. I said in my provisional  
decision that I thought, if the leak couldnt be found,  it was reasonable for the water authority 
to replace the affected pipe. I thought BGI wouldve done the same, if it had done this work. 
Miss H said that BGI had promised to send her £50 in compensation to make  up for the 
problems that shed had getting  in touch with it. But shed never  received  the cheque. I didnt 
deal with this in my provisional decision,  because I thought that issue had been  resolved by 
this payment. Once this was raised  by Miss H, our investigator asked BGI to comment  on 
whether the cheque had been  cashed,  or whether it would replace it. It hasnt done that. 
In these circumstances, Ill amend my decision so that it includes the payment of £50 to 
Miss H, as compensation  for poor service received when she tried to book  an appointment. If 
BGI can show  that this cheque has been  cashed,  and Miss H has perhaps forgotten  this, 
then it wont have to issue it again.  
Ref: DRN22412656my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Miss H £550, for costs that 
shes incurred for replacing a water supply pipe to her home. And, if it hasnt done  so 
already, it should  pay her £50 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2241265