K820x#14complaint
Miss I is unhappy with way AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with her and declared her car to 
be a write  off in a claim on her motor insurance  policy. 
background
Miss Is car was damaged in an incident. A third party hit it and admitted  liability.
AXA says the repairs need to be within 60% of the cars value otherwise it will be written off. 
But Miss I feels  AXA has undervalued her car and used the bottom end valuations that mean  
the repairs exceed 60% of its value. Shes also unhappy that her three  years  no claim bonus 
(NCB) has been lost while theres an open  claim and says as a result of whats happened 
shes lost evening shifts  as she cant travel home. She wants  her car repaired and 
compensation.
AXA accepted in its final response  that the service  Miss I received had fallen below a 
standard it would  expect.  And it sent her a cheque for £350 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
An engineer  inspected the car and after some further stripping down of the damaged 
areas found the repairs would cost over £4,786. The car was valued at £5,100. It was 
therefore deemed to be a total loss. 
An insurer can make  a decision to declare  a car a total loss if the costs of repair are 
over 60% of its market  value.  Thats what AXA did. And it offered  to allow  Miss I to 
keep the car if she agreed to the salvage costs being deducted  from her settlement.
Looking at the main  trade guides AXAs valuation of £5,100 appears fair and 
reasonable. It has also considered an estimate Miss I got for the repairs  from her 
own garage. But its engineer was concerned there was more  damage than her 
repairers estimate suggested. 
The delay in things  being resolved has been frustrating for Miss I but AXA wasnt  
solely responsible  for this. Its also tried to assist  in her keeping the car. AXA 
accepted things have been  taking longer than shed like. Its payment of £350 
compensation for this is fair. 
Its not unusual  for a NCB to be affected while a claim is outstanding. But once  its 
finalised the claim will be recorded  as non fault and the NCB reinstated  and 
recalculated. She isnt asking  AXA to do any more.
Miss I remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28345032Miss Is policy allows  AXA to decide whether to repair the car or pay her an amount  equal to 
the loss or damage. And it says it will not pay more  than the cars market value which is the 
cost of replacing the car with a similar one immediately before the time of the loss.
In this case after inspecting Miss Is car and further investigation work AXAs  engineer 
considered the car would cost over £4,786  to repair. Miss Is obtained a lower estimate for 
the repairs but the engineer considers it doesnt  cover all the actual damage to the car. The 
engineer also assessed its market value  at £5,100. Miss I thinks this valuation  is too low. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
AXAs offer.  And in this case AXAs engineers valuation  of £5,100 appears fair and given 
the engineers  estimate of the substantial repair costs I think  its reasonable for AXA to have 
decided the car should be deemed  a total loss.
AXA did reasonably try to assist Miss I when she said she would like to retain the car. But it 
accepts it couldve dealt  with her better at times  and its paid her £350 for this. I realise  Mss I 
has been inconvenienced by some  of what AXA has done but given what  happened in this 
claim I dont think  I can fairly or reasonably  now require it to pay her any more compensation 
including for loss of her work shifts.
Its also normal for a NCB to be affected until a claim is resolved. If at that time the claim is 
deemed to be non fault the NCB will be reinstated and adjusted  by the insurer.
Overall although  I recognise  Miss Is frustration and strength of feeling,  I dont  think  I can 
fairly or reasonably now require AXA to do or pay any more. And I dont see a compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2834503