K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that American  Express Services Europe Limited  (Amex) has placed a 
restriction on his account that means he is unable to use his credit  card on the mobile 
payment service on his mobile phone.
background 
Mr L has an Amex credit card. He has a mobile payment service  on his mobile  phone  which  
he was able to link his credit card to. This meant that the phone, through the payment 
service, could be used  to make payments from Mr Ls credit  card account without the 
physical card being present.
On 6 July 2018 a transaction was attempted using Mr Ls credit card that Amex  flagged as 
suspicious.
Amex spoke to Mr L on 7 July 2018 and he confirmed he did not make  the transactions - so 
it was stopped and did not go through. Mr L says Amex told him that it would have to place a 
restriction preventing  his card being used on the mobile payment service on his specific 
phone. Mr L says he told Amex he didnt want this to happen.
Mr L spoke to Amex again  later the same day and it confirmed  a new card had been 
ordered. He says in this call Amex didnt  mention  any action taking preventing  the use of his 
phone. However  in addition to ordering the new card Amex  did also place  a restriction on his 
account meaning his card could not be used  through the mobile payment service  on his 
current phone.  
Mr L says he was not made aware  of this. He received his new card and added the details to 
his phone to use the mobile payment service. But because of the restriction  when he first 
tried to use the mobile payment  service he was unsuccessful. Mr L says as a result he had 
to take an alternative  form of travel and paid more  for doing so.
Mr L complained to Amex  about its actions. The department that handled his complaint 
initially denied that Amex was able to prevent  a use of Amex cards  through  the mobile 
payment service on specific mobile devices. And it couldnt explain why Mr L had been  
unable to use his new card on the mobile  payment service when it arrived. Amex  did 
however credit Mr Ls account  with 10,000 reward points, as it had been  unable to locate a 
recording of the calls hed had with it, so couldnt be sure if he was given correct information. 
Amex has since acknowledged  its response regarding preventing the use of the mobile 
payment service was incorrect.
Mr L asked our service to consider his complaint. He said he thought  Amex  wasnt  allowed 
to take the action it had and that it had acted unfairly. And he said that by preventing  the use 
of the mobile payment service,  Amex had made it so his phone wasnt  fully functional, 
affecting its value.  He also said Amex had agreed, when he first raised his complaint, to 
cover the costs he incurred having to take alternative transport when the new card hadnt 
worked, as well as his costs bringing  the complaint, but hadnt done  so.
Ref: DRN28117562An investigator looked into the complaint. She thought Amex hadnt acted unreasonably as 
its actions were intended to protect Mr Ls account,  which it had a duty to do. She also 
couldnt find any evidence  that Amex had agreed to cover costs incurred. But she felt Amex  
had provided incorrect  information to Mr L when  he first complained by initially  denying it 
could prevent the use of the card through the mobile  payment service on a specific  mobile 
device. So she thought it should pay Mr L £100  to reflect the upset this had caused.
Amex agreed with the investigators opinion. Mr L did not. He said he believed Amex  had 
acted unlawfully in blocking  the use of the money  payment  service  and didnt feel the 
suggested settlement  was fair. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that the transaction which Amex flagged as suspicious on 6 July 2018 
wasnt genuine. Mr L confirmed to Amex that he didnt make it. So Amex acted correctly  in 
stopping it from going through. Amex also had a responsibility  to protect Mr Ls account from 
potential further  unauthorised use  so that neither  he nor Amex  incurred  losses.
Amex has provided evidence that the transaction from 6 July 2018 was processed using the 
device ID it has on record for Mr Ls mobile  phone. So it appeared that the device ID had 
been compromised, not simply his card. So although  a new card was requested this wouldnt 
have been enough on its own to ensure Mr Ls account was safe from misuse. Because  if 
the device ID was compromised, once the new card details were  added to the mobile 
payment service they too may have been compromised. So Amex took the decision to 
prevent the use of Mr Ls credit card account  through mobile payment services on the mobile 
device with the specific ID used, to ensure his account was protected. And I dont think that 
was unreasonable. 
Mr L has argued that the terms and conditions of his account dont mention this might 
happen. But I wouldnt expect terms and conditions to list every fraud prevention measure  a 
business may use. Businesses fraud prevention measures  are generally confidential  to 
prevent them being  abused.
Mr L has also argued that Amexs actions  were unlawful. Im not sure that is the case  but in 
any event our service is an informal dispute  resolution body.  It is not for us to decide if 
something is unlawful. Our role is to look at whether  a business has made a mistake or 
acted unfairly. And I dont  think  Amex has here. Id also note that Amex is not obliged to 
provide ongoing support for mobile payment services in general. This is a facility  it does 
currently offer, but it is not something that it is required to do. Im also conscious that, 
although Mr L has said that this is an essential  feature for him, his mobile device provides a 
significant number  of other features.  
So while I know Mr L feels strongly about this I dont think  Amex has acted unreasonably by 
taking the action it has to protect his account  so doesnt have to compensate  him for this.
Ref: DRN28117563Mr L has said that Amex  agreed  to cover the additional travel costs he incurred when the 
block was first put in place as he had to take a different mode of transport when he was 
unable to use the mobile payment service.  Amex has no record of agreeing to this. Im 
unsure why the suspension of this service meant  additional  costs were incurred. Mr L 
mustve had means to pay for the more expensive mode of transport.  And its unclear why 
this couldnt have been used to complete his journey as he first intended. In any event 
though, as I dont  think  Amex has made an error when  blocking the use of the service, I dont 
think I can reasonably recommend it cover these costs. 
Amex did give Mr L incorrect information when he first complained as it told him it wasnt 
able to prevent  the use of mobile  payment services on a specific  mobile device. Mr L has 
though said that he had been made  aware when he spoke to Amex on 7 July 2018  - before 
he complained  - that this could happen.  
It is disappointing that Amex has given inconsistent  and misleading information  and I think  
this was likely to have  caused Mr L some  upset  although Im conscious his main  concern 
was no longer being able to use the mobile  payment service itself. 
Our investigator recommended that Amex pay £100 for the upset caused by this incorrect  
information, in addition to the 10,000  reward points  it already credited to Mr L. Having taken  
everything into account I think this is a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part.
American Express Services Europe Limited  should pay Mr L £100  for the upset caused 
when it provided  incorrect  information when considering  his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811756