K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited took a payment from his credit  
card without his authorisation when it automatically  renewed his sons motor insurance 
policy without permission
background
In January 2018, Mr R agreed to his credit  card being used to pay for the full policy premium 
on the car his son (Mr R2) was insuring. In January 2019 the policy  was automatically 
renewed, using  the same  card details. But Mr R2 didnt want  the policy renewed, as he was 
no longer using the car. He had a statutory off road notice (SORN) for it, issued by the 
DVLA with effect from 1 January 2019.  
Hastings said a renewal  invitation was sent to Mr R2 in December 2018 saying the policy  
would renew - using  Mr Rs card - unless he contacted it to say he didnt want  the renewal.  
Mr R says Mr R2 was away at university, so he didnt get the letter. And the email  it sent 
went into Mr R2s spam  folder. Mr R said Mr R2 hadnt agreed to automatic renewal and 
that he hadnt agreed to his card being used again. He said one of Hastings advisors told 
him that automatic renewal was a legal requirement,  when it isnt. The advisor  also told Mr R 
that if Mr R2 could show  the date the car got a SORN, hed get a full refund, but he didnt. 
In reply to Mr Rs complaint, Hastings  said it didnt think  it had done  anything wrong in 
renewing the policy and taking the payment. It said Mr R2 hadnt said he wanted to opt out of 
automatic renewal. Nor had he cancelled  the continuous payment authority (CPA)  for the 
card that was set up when  Mr R paid for the first policy. Hastings offered Mr R compensation 
for the errors  in the advice given to him by its advisors and the time hed had to spend 
sorting the issues out. The compensation of £118.18  meant Mr R now had a full refund of 
the policy premium. As he didnt  think any charge  should have  been  made  for cover,  Mr R 
thought Hastings should pay compensation plus a refund. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She thought it was reasonable for 
Hastings to renew the policy, as there  was nothing to show  that Mr R2 had told it not to do 
so. But she didnt think Hastings should have charged for the time during which Mr R2s car 
was covered by the SORN. She said there was no benefit to him from the insurance at that 
time. She thought Hastings should  pay Mr R £150 compensation for inconvenience,  as well 
as refunding the £118.18.  
Hastings said the car was covered  for hazards such as theft and vandalism  even though it 
had a SORN. The investigator said Mr R2 didnt want any cover at all for it. Mr R2 later said 
the cars  engine had been removed and swapped  to another  car. So it didnt need any cover.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  the complaint, as follows:
Ref: DRN23850562We dont think theres  anything wrong with automatic renewal as long as the policy  holder  is 
made aware  of it. The process prevents consumers being left without cover unintentionally. 
In this case, the automatic  renewal  process was set out in the policy summary that was sent 
to Mr R2 in January  2018. It said if he didnt want the policy renewed, he should  let Hastings 
know. Mr R2 could have  done that at the time or at any point up to the renewal date.
Hastings said it would  write to Mr R2 at least 21 days  before the policy  was due to renew.  It 
sent a letter  to his home  address on 21 December 2018. I appreciate that Mr R2 was away  
at university, but that doesnt mean he wouldnt be aware of post arriving for him at home.  
And that was the address Hastings had been  given. It also sent an email  to the email 
address Mr R2 had supplied. We think if a business  can show  it contacted  a consumer  at the 
address they provided it isnt the businesss fault if the letter  or email  isnt seen. So I think  
Hastings did enough  to alert Mr R2 to the policys automatic renewal.
As the policy was being renewed,  Hastings  had to take a payment for it. The welcome letter 
Hastings sent to Mr R2 in January 2018  stated in bold print on the first page  that hed agreed 
to CPA. It said that meant hed given it the right to take future  payments from the credit or 
debit card used to pay for the policy. The CPA was mentioned again  in the payment section 
at the end of the policy summary. So I think Hastings also did enough to flag up that a CPA 
was in place. And both references to CPA stated that it could be cancelled  at any time. 
It looks as though Hastings cancelled the policy as soon as Mr R made it clear that it wasnt  
required on 18 February 2019. A refund  of £579.25  was provided, but Hastings held back 
the £118.18 owed to the insurer for time on cover  from 19 January 2019. After Hastings had 
considered Mr Rs complaint about  the poor service hed received from an advisor (including 
the time hed spent) it offered him £118.18  in compensation. 
I think that sum caused some confusion, as it was the exact amount retained for time on 
cover. I think its now clear that Hastings wasnt providing a further  refund. Hastings 
explained that the car was on cover  (for perils such as fire and theft)  even after it had a 
SORN. I appreciate that Mr R said Mr R2 didnt want any cover at all for the car and didnt 
think it was needed.  But in fact the policy remained in place until it was cancelled.  As I dont 
think Hastings acted  unreasonably in renewing the policy,  I dont think that was wrong.  
In my opinion, Hastings made a reasonable attempt to compensate  Mr R for being given the 
wrong details by its advisor  and for the time he spent as a result of that. I know Mr R was 
frustrated by the automatic renewal and all that flowed  from it. But as I dont think Hastings 
was at fault for that, I dont think  it should have to pay him any further compensation.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Hastings didnt do so. Mr R said 
Hastings had told him hed get a full policy refund as well as giving him other wrong 
information. He said there  was no chance to opt out of automatic renewal on the internet 
when the policy was set up. In his view, the issue was buried in the policys  small print. And 
he said Mr R2 couldnt be asked to authorise  continuous payments on Mr Rs card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23850563I dont think there was a need to provide an opt-out for automatic renewal at the internet 
stage of the sales process. I think proposing  a policys automatic renewal is reasonable as 
long as a consumer is given appropriate details of it and can opt out of it in good time.  
Mr R2 was advised  in Hastings 2018 welcome letter and policy summary that Hastings 
automatically renews most policies. The note said he could opt out at any time before the 
2019 renewal  date and would get at least 21 days notice of that. In December 2018 Mr R2 
was given due notice of the 2019  renewal. He was advised  once  again  that he could stop it 
by contacting Hastings. I dont  think its reasonable to say that the details about  the process 
were buried  in the small print. 
When Mr R2 first took the policy out he agreed to CPA.  That was set out clearly on the first 
page of the 2018  welcome  letter from Hastings. Mr R had used his card to pay for the policy. 
It isnt unusual for someone to allow their card to be used to pay for someone elses  policy. I 
think its reasonable in these  circumstances  to expect the policy  holder to inform the card 
holder and check that the proposed CPA arrangement is acceptable  to them.  The CPA note 
says it can be cancelled  at any time.  So Mr R2 could have done that in January 2018. 
Given the details  set out above, I dont agree with Mr R that the facts about  automatic 
renewal and CPA were only provided after  the fact. Mr R2 was first given notice of them 
around a year before either took effect. I think it was for him to pass on to Mr R2 the details 
Hastings sent to him then and in December  2018.  
I still think Hastings acted  reasonably in terms of automatic renewal and CPA.   And  it offered  
compensation that amounted to the sum Mr R2 had paid for the new policy. Hastings 
advisors shouldnt  have given Mr R incorrect information. But I dont think the details they 
provided in error made Mr R act any differently than he would otherwise have done  or 
caused any significant detriment to him. So taking everything into account, in my opinion  it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2385056