K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is complaining about  Standard  Life Assurance Limited because it didnt pay a claim for 
total and permanent disability (TPD) on her critical illness insurance policy.
background
In 2001, Mrs S took out a 15-year level term life and critical illness  insurance  policy  with 
Standard Life. It provided cover of £20,000 and included TPD benefit.  The policy and the 
cover it provided ended on 4 December 2016. 
Sadly, Mrs S fell ill and made a claim in July 2016. I understand she was retired from work 
on ill-health grounds around the same time. Standard Life didnt pay out, saying the 
definition of TPD in the policy wasnt met before it ended.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought it was fair and 
reasonable for this complaint to be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
Mrs S told us she had nothing to add to my provisional decision. Standard Life didnt  accept 
it and made  the following comments:
The policy in issue was a 15 year level term life and critical illness policy.  The TPD 
benefit formed part of the policy as a subset to the CI cover expressly included within 
the policy schedule.  It was not a standalone  head  of cover as it is not expressly 
referred to in the policy schedule as required under the terms and conditions.  
When constructing these  policies,  balance is required between  the value of the 
premiums required and the pay-outs offered. For term assurance policies such  as 
the one in issue, a key requirement is that the policy only provides coverage for 
defined events that occur during the policy term which ensures cover  is provided at 
an affordable premium. This is why the policy  terms are drafted on a very narrow  
basis, so as to only allow for valid claims where the benefit event has actually 
occurred. 
In the current case, the benefit  event  (namely  total permanent disability from an 
irrecoverable illness) had not occurred. This is clear  from the relevant medical 
reports for two reasons:
a)A final diagnosis  of illness had not been reached before the policy  
expired; and
b) A certainty of prognosis had not been  offered.
The diagnosis of illness  is a key requirement for TPD to apply as set out at provision 
4(a) and 4(c) of the policy  terms. Mrs S relies upon  a diagnosis of fibromyalgia as 
being a permanent condition with no cure. Notwithstanding the fact that this is not 
correct from a medical perspective, any diagnosis of fibromyalgia had not occurred at 
the date medical  reports were submitted  and was not arrived at until after the policy  
had ceased in December 2016.  
Ref: DRN27988712In addition to the policy  requirement  for a diagnosis of illness, there is an additional 
requirement for certainty  of prognosis   i.e. that the policyholder has a total 
permanent disability (note, not may have, could  have  or is likely to have a total 
permanent disability).  The policy terms do not refer to a level of likelihood  or 
proportion of certainty in this regard. The policy requirement is that the policyholder 
has permanent and total disability. Again, this standard  as set in the policy was not 
achieved before the policy ended  based  on the medical reports. The relevant doctor  
refers to a likelihood of recovery. Whilst the likelihood  of recovery  is determined  as 
low, it is not the case that the doctor evidences that Mrs S suffers  from a total and 
permanent disability and therefore the policy conditions have not been met.
The fact remains that at the time of claim, Mrs S had not been  diagnosed with an 
irrecoverable illness and her prognosis was not certain. In the circumstances, it was 
entirely fair and reasonable for Standard Life to decline her claim at that time in 
accordance with the policy  terms. 
We know that Mrs S was diagnosed with Sjorgens syndrome following a biopsy on 4 
October 2017, after our policy expired. Sjorgens an objective and irrecoverable 
illness for which there is no treatment, very different to fibromyalgia which is 
recognised as a subjective condition with treatable symptoms that does not follow  a 
predictable course.  We are aware  another insurer accepted a TPD claim with effect  
from 4 October 2017, the date of the diagnostic biopsy for Sjorgens.
Whilst it is unfortunate that Mrs S did subsequently meet the claim requirements,  this 
was after the policy had expired. 
We are concerned that the provisional  decision implies both a level of uncertainty  
and ambiguity into policy terms where  none exists and also seeks  to rely upon the 
benefit of hindsight in reaching  the determination. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Standard Lifes  response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent  changed.
I previously explained  that to conclude this claim was payable Id need to be satisfied the 
policy definition of TPD was met before the policy ended  and based  on the medical evidence 
available at that time. I think this made  it clear  my decision  didnt apply hindsight  based on 
later developments or medical evidence that became  available subsequently.
Mrs S was diagnosed with Sjorgens  syndrome  and this is the basis  on which  I understand 
another policy (which  was still in force when the diagnosis was made)  paid out and on which  
Standard Life is saying she would now have a valid claim if her policy hadnt ended.  
Although the medical evidence shows Sjorgens was being  considered  before the Standard 
Life policy ended,  I appreciate an actual  diagnosis wasnt  made  until some months later.  
Thats the reason I havent said the claim is payable on the basis of that diagnosis.  Or on the 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia, which I understand was also made after the Standard Life policy 
ended.
Ref: DRN27988713Standard Life has argued that diagnosis is a key requirement for a TPD claim to succeed 
and it referred to section  4 of the policy terms to support this view. Section 4 says:
4. What we pay on total permanent disability (this applies if it is shown in the 
policy schedule)
If the policy is in force  and the policy schedule  shows that the policy  provides total 
permanent disability benefit and:
a)we have  received satisfactory proof that the life assured  has a total 
permanent disability  (as defined in policy provision  5 and subject to policy 
provisions 8 and 9), and
b)we have  not paid any benefits under policy provisions 3(i), 3(ii) or 6(i), and
c)the life assured has lived for 28 days from the date of the total permanent 
disability being  diagnosed  (only  where  the total permanent disability sum 
assured is greater than the sum assured payable on death),
we will cancel the policy on the date we accept  the claim  and pay the total 
permanent disability benefit shown on the policy  schedule.
The policy will then end.
In my view and in connection  with this complaint, the term simply requires Mrs S had met the 
definition of TPD in section 5 before the policy ended. Section 5 defines TPD as follows:
5. What is total permanent  disability?
Unless stated otherwise in the policy schedule, having a total permanent disability 
from an irrecoverable illness or injury before the age of 65 resulting in the life 
assured being  unable  to carry out his normal  occupation.
The medical evidence  from the time of her claim shows Mrs S had complex medical issues  
and multiple conditions. Some of these, including  pulmonary sarcoidosis and intercostal 
neuralgia, had been diagnosed. Standard Lifes position seems  to be based on the view that 
none of the illnesses that were diagnosed before her policy  ended  were irrecoverable in their 
own right.  While that may be true, I think its too simplistic  an analysis that ignores the 
combined effect of these  conditions on Mrs Ss overall state  of health. If the combined effect 
of the diagnosed illnesses  meant  she was totally and permanently  unable to carry out her 
normal occupation of health care assistant,  I think its fair and reasonable to conclude she 
had a valid claim.
Standard Life sought comments from a number  of medical professional involved in Mrs Ss 
treatment and care. Dr M and Dr A both said she wasnt able to carry out her normal  
occupation at that time, a conclusion supported by the fact she was retired on ill-health 
grounds around the same time. And I believe Dr A, who she was seeing about what was 
thought to be her underlying rheumatological disorder, was clear she wasnt  expected to be 
able to return to her normal occupation  or any other occupation  for that matter   in the 
future.
Ref: DRN27988714I appreciate Standard Lifes  comments  that Mrs S was still having investigations and it was 
possible she could be referred  for pain management  therapy. If I felt there had been  a 
chance further investigations and treatment might result in Mrs Ss condition  improving to the 
point where she could return to her job, I wouldnt  be recommending her claim be paid. But 
Dr As report shows he was aware  of the investigations  and possible treatment, yet he still 
felt able to reach the conclusion that she was unlikely to be able to work again.  As her 
treating consultant, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude he was best placed to offer an 
opinion on this.
Standard Life also refers to the need  for a certainty  of prognosis, but I think  that goes 
beyond whats stated  in the policy terms. In my opinion, section 4(a) only requires 
satisfactory proof the definition has been met, which I believe allows  for a measure of 
subjective judgement.  And I think it would have been unrealistic and unreasonable to expect 
Mrs Ss consultants to provide 100% certainty  when offering an opinion  on her future 
prospects anyway.
 
Taking everything into account,  including the further  investigations and possible treatment 
that might  help to alleviate her symptoms to some extent,  Dr A felt able to say it was unlikely 
Mrs S would be able to perform any occupation whatsoever, not just her normal  occupation.  
I think his comments, along with the other medical  evidence obtained, should have been 
considered to provide the satisfactory proof Standard Life required in the policy terms.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs S accepts  my decision,  Standard  Life Assurance Limited must pay her the full amount 
of the TPD benefit  on her policy  at the date of her claim. To compensate  her for not having 
access to this money in the interim, it should  also add simple interest to this amount at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date of Dr As report in October  2016  to the date the claim is 
finally paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27988715extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
None of the diagnosed  illnesses Mrs S suffers from were specifically covered  by her policy. But it did 
cover her for TPD, which  was defined as follows:
. . . having a total permanent disability  from an irrecoverable illness or injury before the age of 
65 resulting in the life assured being unable  to carry out his normal occupation.
Normal occupation is defined  as the last occupation carried out for remuneration or profit by the life 
assured. Its my understanding Mrs S worked as a healthcare assistant before she was retired on ill-
health grounds.
For me to consider the TPD definition  was met and that the claim should  therefore  have been paid, Id 
need to see from the medical  evidence  that Mrs S was totally  unable to do the job of a healthcare 
assistant. Also, that this situation  was expected to be permanent and all reasonable treatment  options 
that might enable her to return to work had been tried. 
Crucially, since the policy has expired, Id also need to be satisfied the medical evidence shows this 
situation had been reached before the end date in December 2016.  If further investigations and/or 
treatments were still being considered and that might  allow Mrs S to return  to work, Id likely have to 
conclude Standard Life was entitled to decline  the claim,  whether or not they ultimately led to her 
condition improving.
The medical  information provided shows that around the time she claimed, Mrs S was suffering from 
a number of different  problems and seeing a number of different medical  professionals. In assessing 
her claim, Standard Life asked for comments from her consultant in respiratory and general (internal)  
medicine, Dr M, and her consultant  rheumatologist,  Dr A.
Mrs S was seeing Dr M in connection with her respiratory problems. Standard Life took the view that 
some of his comments  demonstrated aspects  of her health were showing signs of improvement.  And 
when asked about additional treatments that might  be available, he mentioned a possible referral to 
a pain clinic. When asked about  whether  Mrs S would ever recover sufficiently to be able to return  to 
her own occupation, he said:
This is difficult to predict but persistent breathlessness and chest pain are likely to impair  her 
ability to work  as a health case assistant.  Both of these, and her other health problems will 
need to resolve/improve for her to function effectively as an HCA.
It seems clear Dr M was aware Mrs S was having other issues and was seeing  a rheumatologist 
about what he called  (in his letter of 23 June 2016) a possible underlying rheumatological disorder.
Dr A also provided a report in October 2016 - less than six weeks before the policy  end date  in 
which he answered  similar  questions to those put to Dr M. In response to a question about whether 
Mrs Ss health  was likely to recover  he said:
There may be some recovery but this is unpredictable.  Patient now has symptoms  of chronic 
widespread pain/fibromyalgia and these often  do not improve with time or treatment.
He also said Mrs S was:
Currently undergoing further investigations. May be appropriate to consider pain 
management programme.
And that whether  this kind of treatment would  be recommended would depend on results of 
investigations.
Ref: DRN27988716When he was asked about whether Mrs S will make  a sufficient recovery allowing a return to work [in 
her own occupation] at any time in the future? , Dr A answered no, saying:
It seems unlikely that patient will be able to return to previous occupation.
And when  asked about  whether shed be able to return to any occupation  whatsoever  in the future,  
Dr A again  answered  no, saying:
Again, in view of ongoing symptoms this seems  unlikely.
Reading the medical evidence  in its entirety, I can see further investigations  were taking place around 
the time of Mrs Ss claim.  And also that other treatment, including referral to a pain management 
clinic, might have been recommended once the results were known.
I certainly take Standard Lifes point  that pain management, for example,  would  represent a 
reasonable treatment option and that could potentially  have led to some improvement in Mrs Ss 
symptoms. But I dont  think  Dr As comments indicate this type of treatment  would ever have been 
expected to have led to a significant enough improvement  to allow her to return to work  not just in 
her normal role, but in any occupation whatsoever. So in the circumstances of this particular  case, I 
dont think its reasonable  for Standard Life to rely on the fact that pain management  treatment might 
be offered to decline the claim.
As the consultant treating Mrs S for what seems to have been the underlying cause of her problems, I 
think Dr A was in the best position to offer an opinion  on whether it was realistic to think shed  ever 
recover sufficiently to be able to work again. His report also shows he was aware of the possible 
treatments that could  be offered  and Ive no reason to think he didnt take these into account  in 
offering his prognosis. In the circumstances, I think it would be unrealistic to expect Dr A to say with 
absolute certainty that Mrs S wouldnt be able to return to work, but I think he was clear in his view 
that this was unlikely. 
Standard Life has accepted that Mrs S probably met the definition for TPD after the policy ended. But 
on balance, I think the comments of Dr A are persuasive  evidence that the extent of her problems 
meant she wasnt expected to be able to return to work again (in her own or any other role, and 
irrespective of any further  investigation  and treatments that might have been considered)  as early as 
October 2016  and before her policy ended. Its for this reason that I currently  think Standard Life 
should have accepted her claim and that I plan to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I currently intend to uphold  this complaint. To put things right, I 
currently think  Standard Life Assurance Limited  should pay Mrs S the full amount of the TPD benefit 
on her policy  at the date of her claim.  To compensate her for not having access to this money  in the 
interim, it should also add simple interest to this amount at the rate of 8% per year from the date of Dr 
As report in October 2016  to the date the claim is finally paid.
Ref: DRN2798871