K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy at a meeting in 2000  at the same time as taking a mortgage.
Mr D was the first named on the mortgage account  and his income  was entered by Halifax  
onto its records as the Main Income.  He was a line manager at the time and had been  
there less than a year.  From what Mr and Mrs D have told us, Mr D was entitled to less than 
six but at least three months sick pay. He has told us hed missed  three  months work due to 
a medical issue hed had with his hip.
Mr and Mrs D have told us Mrs D was also employed at the time, entitled to full sick pay and 
redundancy pay and in good health.  They didnt  have  any savings or any other  means with 
which to pay the mortgage, aside from their work  pay and work benefits.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ds monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. This benefit was £436.58 initially and cost £26.45 per month.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mr and Mrs D took a further advance  in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ds representatives 
believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Halifax  should have told 
Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have  had on their chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN26365282The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs D arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN26365283The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  
in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN26365284-Whether Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them  to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ds favour, 
I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  they suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs D signed  a separate box on 
their mortgage application  form to say they would  like the PPI. They  also signed a separate  
PPI application  form to take the cover. Ive seen nothing from the time saying Mr and Mrs D 
had to take PPI or had to sign the box or the application form for it if they didnt want  it. They  
say they had no interest in PPI and say it was just included as part of the package  with their 
mortgage. But, taking  everything into account,  I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs D knew  the 
policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs D say it didnt. But if Halifax did give 
advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that 
Halifax gave advice. This means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. There is no record of what exactly the adviser discussed 
in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The 
adviser had some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, for 
example Mr Ds salary details. Also Mr and Mrs Ds PPI application form suggests Halifax 
established Mr D worked full time and wasnt aware of any impending  unemployment. But I 
dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish  Mr and Mrs D 
had a need for it. For example, Ive nothing to show that Halifax  asked Mr D about his work 
redundancy or sickness benefits.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN26365285-Mr and Mrs D had a need for the policy. Even with Mr Ds work benefits,  it seems likely 
Mr and Mrs D would  suffer a fall in income if Mr D couldnt work  for an extended period. 
The PPI benefit  would  help them manage the consequences of that at what could be a 
difficult time if Mr D were unemployed or too sick to work - and Mr and Mrs D didnt any 
savings to fall back on.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs D.
 
-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs D. There 
was nothing  about Mr Ds employment  or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for them  to claim. As regards the health issue Mr D has told us about, the policy  terms 
didnt exclude  disability claims arising  from pre-existing health issues.  
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr D were unable  to do his job, or any similar  job, and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education  or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover in Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances given the loss of 
income they could  suffer were  Mr D not working for a time and the role the policy  benefit  
could play as a result in helping  Mr and Mrs D in that situation. Also,  the policy protected  
the mortgage payments on Mr and Mrs Ds home  - and I bear in mind  the potential  
consequences if Mr and Mrs D were to have become  unable  to make repayments on 
loans secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is, that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr D were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I say this because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have taken the 
policy without any sense  of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be. Also, the 
PPI application  form Mr and Mrs D signed  showed Mr D was insured and set out the monthly  
premium and monthly benefit amount.  So I think its likely  Mr and Mrs D were made aware  of 
the monthly benefit amount and how much the premium  would  be.
But the evidence  from the time doesnt tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient information 
about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs D all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN26365286In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ds. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it shouldve done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs D. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs D would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN26365287The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised them  there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs D were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the PPI, such as the limitations 
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr D wasnt  
a permanent  employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr D be unable to do his own 
job, or any similar job, and also be unable to do any paid work his experience,  education 
or training  reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr D wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  he was in permanent  
employment and pre-existing health  issues werent  excluded, so work  absences arising due 
to an injury to or condition  suffered by his hip werent excluded.  So I think Mr and Mrs D still 
had some good reasons to take the policy.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mr D were not only unable  to 
do his own or any similar  job but also unable to do any paid work  his experience, education  
or training reasonably qualified him to do, it might have played into their thinking about what  
to do. And I accept  it may have given them pause  for thought   although  given their 
circumstances, on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Ref: DRN26365288Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs D any claim they made would be limited  to a 24 month 
period. This may have  differed from what they expected and might  have hoped  for. But Mr D 
wouldnt have received full sick pay for even 12 months, and his redundancy entitlement was 
likely very significantly less than 24 months income.  In those circumstances, I consider it 
likely Mr and Mrs D wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly payments would 
be of benefit and help them manage  the consequences should Mr D be unable  to work for a 
time in the circumstances covered by the policy. It allowed multiple claims and the benefit  
could reduce Mr and Mrs Ds outgoings and help ensure their home was not placed at risk at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr D were unemployed or too sick to work.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs D might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs D from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs D, in their circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs D would still have  taken the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mr D were  made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve  taken the PPI in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN26365289Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs D would not have taken the PPI, Im 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken it 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs D think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2636528