K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (when  it was trading as TSB) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr H took out a credit card in 1994. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy to protect his 
credit card monthly  repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Mr H disagrees  with our adjudicators view. 
Mr H mainly says his reason for taking out the PPI was that he was informed it was very 
unlikely his credit card would be approved otherwise. Mr H also told us he didnt  need  PPI as 
he had other  means he couldve  relied on to pay his credit card if he wasnt  working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Ive taken into account that Mr H said he felt pressured into taking  out PPI. But I dont think 
the evidence is strong  enough for me to safely say that was the case, just based on what  
Mr H says. Thats because Mr H took out his credit card with PPI by filling in a postal 
application form sent to him at home. And although  Mr H says that hed spoken  to a sales  
advisor at the bank  and felt he had taken  the PPI to get his credit card, I think  that the 
application form made it clear he had a choice.
Theres a section on the form which says Tick here if you would like to be covered by TSB 
Credit Card  Payments Insurance (this is what TSB called  its PPI). So I think the way the 
application form is set out makes  it clear that it was up to Mr H to say if he wanted  to take 
out PPI with his credit  card  and he wouldve seen  that the PPI was separate from and 
additional to the credit card. Mr H indicated on the form that he wanted  to have PPI with his 
credit card. He couldve left this tick box unticked if he hadnt  wanted to have PPI. 
I can completely understand that Mr H mightve  forgotten some of these details after so long. 
But, on balance, I find that PPI was added to Mr Hs credit card account  when he chose to 
take it out.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check the policy  was suitable 
for him. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr H enough information to make  a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him.
Mr H was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
Ref: DRN29720732Ive taken into account that Mr Hs employer wouldve  paid him 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  per 
accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided  better protection  than he couldve relied on 
getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing  Mr H with 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve  had some 
extra costs  as a result of being sick or disabled.  
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr H lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr H was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any redundancy  money  he mightve  got, giving Mr H some additional financial 
security if hed lost his job. I dont know if Mr H wouldve always  had savings he couldve 
relied on to pay his credit card bills if he was unable to work. 
Based on everything  hes told us, I think that the PPI offered Mr H some  useful  benefits.    
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if that affected Mr H. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover wouldve  
affected his decision  to have PPI.
I dont think its likely  that the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr H when he bought  the policy.  
But from what Ive seen,  Mr H hasnt suggested  that he couldnt afford the monthly  
premiums. And he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to. So it seems Mr H 
wanted this type of cover at the time.  Looked  at overall, I think  Mr H still wouldve decided to 
buy the policy if hed been better informed as it provided him with worthwhile protection.  
I dont think its likely  that better information wouldve put him off buying it.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Ref: DRN29720733But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN2972073