K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim for cancellation of a holiday.
Mrs E has been added as a complainant,  as she is insured under the policy. The change  
hasnt made  any difference to the outcome of my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs E have  insurance through Mr Es package bank account. The insurer is UKI. The 
policy started in July 2017. In June 2018  they booked a holiday for September  2018. 
Mrs E had an operation  for her haemorrhoids (piles) in August  2018. Unfortunately  due to 
complications of the operation she and Mr E had to cancel the holiday. They claimed for the 
cancellation costs,  about £1,000.
UKI refused the claim. The policy  didnt  cover cancellation claims directly  relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. UKI said Mrs E had been treated for piles in the 12 months 
before they booked  the holiday so she had a pre-existing condition.  Mrs E hadnt  told UKI 
about her piles, or the operation, and it hadnt agreed to cover  either.
Mrs and Mrs E complained to us. She said shes suffered  from piles for 30 years but has 
never been unable to go on holiday because  of them. She emphasised  it was complications 
after the operation which had caused  the cancellation.
During our investigation UKI told us that if Mrs E had told it about her piles she wouldnt have 
been charged an extra premium for the condition  to be covered. But she would have been 
charged extra if shed  told it she was due to have  an operation.
Our investigator thought UKI unfairly declined the claim. It should  pay the claim deducting 
the additional premium it would  have  charged to cover  the operation.
Neither party agreed. Mrs E said she had to cancel  the holiday due to complications that 
neither she or the doctor could have foreseen.
UKI objected  to our investigators reasoning for his recommendation. He had referred to our 
approach in looking at these types of complaints as being in line with the relevant legislation,  
the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). UKI made 
detailed points as to why it didnt think CIDRA applied. It said it had fairly applied the policy 
terms and not covered  the pre-existing condition.
Before I made my decision I asked UKI whether it could provide  the base premium  for the 
policy and additional  premium it would have charged  so that it would be able to calculate  a 
proportionate payment,  if I thought  that was a fair outcome. UKI replied that it wasnt  
possible to carry out a retrospective screening, so it couldnt tell us what, if any, additional 
premium it would have  applied.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ref: DRN21650642The relevant  rules  and industry guidelines  say that UKI has a responsibility  to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think its unreasonable for UKI 
to reject Mr and Mrs Es claim.
Ive read UKIs detailed  points about why it thinks CIDRA doesnt apply. I note that some of 
its argument as to whether there  has been  a qualifying  misrepresentation'  by Mrs E relies on 
her condition being diagnosed in March 2018, after the policy started. But it's clear from 
Mrs Es hospital records that she's had long term problems with the condition.
I dont need to make a finding on whether or not CIDRA applies to this case. I make my 
decisions based on whats  a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances taking into 
account the relevant law, regulations and guidance.  As Ive said, UKI shouldnt reject  a claim 
unreasonably.
Im satisfied that from what Mrs E has told us, and her hospital  records,  shes  had piles 
before the policy started.  The policy is clear  that at the time of opening the bank  account  or 
before they book  a journey (whichever is later) Mr and Mrs E must tell UKI about  pre-existing 
medical conditions.  Those  include conditions where:
they are under investigation, awaiting diagnosis, receiving in-patient treatment or are 
waiting to receive treatment, and
they have  been  prescribed medication (including  repeat prescriptions) in the last 
12 months.
Its not clear from the medical evidence whether Mrs E was having the medication/injections  
for her piles in the 12 months before the bank account opened. But as she was already in 
the hospital system  for the condition by November 2017 its more likely  than not that she was 
under investigation  before  the account opened.  Even if thats not correct, in March 2018 
(before they booked the holiday) Mrs E knew she needed an operation  for her piles.
Mrs E should have called  UKI to tell it about her piles, at the earliest when the bank account 
opened (and policy started) or at the latest when  she knew  she needed an operation.  I dont 
think she deliberately  withheld  the information  from UKI and its not suggested she did. But 
I think Mrs E ought to have told UKI about the issue because she was required to do so 
under the policy  terms and conditions.
I understand Mrs Es point  that it was unexpected  complications from the operation  which 
caused the cancellation, not the condition  itself. But the cancellation still happened as a 
direct result of the piles. If she didnt  have piles then she wouldnt  have  had the operation, or 
the complications.
UKI can fairly say that the holiday  cancellation  was due to a pre-existing condition.
However, in deciding whether UKI has reasonably rejected the claim I need to consider 
whether UKI has been disadvantaged  by Mrs E not telling  it about her piles or operation.
UKIs told us it wouldnt have charged Mrs E an extra premium to cover her piles and its 
recently clarified that it doesnt know what,  if any, extra premium it would have charged if she 
told it about the operation. On the evidence I have UKI hasnt been disadvantaged  by Mrs E 
not telling  it about her situation. So I dont think it can reasonably reject the claim.
Ref: DRN21650643UKI has said an uphold  decision will imply that it should cover all claims where policyholders 
dont tell it about pre-existing conditions. Im certainly  not saying that. But in the 
circumstances of this case I think UKI should pay the claim for the reasons Ive given.
UKI must add interest to the claim payment, as Ive detailed below.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs E agreed. UKI didnt provide a substantive response by the deadline for 
responses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs E agreed to my provisional decision and UKIs made no objections  to my 
provisional decision by the response  deadline  Ive no reason to change my mind.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I uphold this 
complaint.
UKI must pay the claim and interest as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Es claim.  Interest*  must  be added  at 8% 
simple a year from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman
*If U K Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs E a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2165064