K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCI), trading as Dacia Finance, has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car on 18 March  2019. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. But he had problems with the car soon afterwards. 
On 21 March 2019 the key fob would not allow him to access the car and the car would not 
start. The same happened  the next day and the recovery service  took Mr Ms car to the 
supplying dealership. They investigated  the problem and Mr M went  to collect the car on 25 
March 2019 but was surprised to find the key fob still would not work. So he left the car with 
the dealership.
He contacted RCI on 1 April and told them he wanted to get rid of the car and get a new 
one. But RCI said the dealership hadnt  been  able to find a fault with the car and it was now 
working okay. So they didnt think they needed  to allow him to reject the car.
Mr M therefore referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his view.  
He thought RCI should allow Mr M to reject the car as theyd failed to repair it and it was 
clear there was a fault with it when supplied.
But RCI didnt agree. They said the action  of the recovery service on 21 March  had been  
wrong and that they should  have  taken the car to the dealership at that point. They  said if 
theyd done that there  would not have been  a failed repair and they explained that Mr M 
hadnt had any subsequent problems  with the car which was now working fine. They  
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint RCI so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
Ref: DRN22251352responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. This was a 
brand new car so I would  not expect  it to have any faults.
The relevant  legislation  allows the consumer  to reject the goods within  30 days if a fault is 
present at the point the goods are supplied.
Here, whilst RCI dispute that there was a fault,  I think its clear one was present. The 
recovery service  agreed as they had to return the car to the dealership. And the dealership 
confirmed the car would not open;  although  they believed  the fault to simply be an 
undercharged battery.  
I can understand Mr Ms frustration that the car had broken  down so frequently  in the first 
few days. He told RCI on a phone call on 1 April 2019 that he wanted to get rid of the car. 
As that request was made within the first 30 days,  and as there  was a confirmed fault with 
the car, I think they should have allowed him to reject the vehicle at that point.
But, even  if Im wrong about that and Mr M didnt ask to reject the car so early,  the relevant 
legislation allows RCI one chance to repair a problem. It seems  here that the repair  didnt 
work as when Mr M went to collect the car on 25 March  it failed  again.  That,  it seems, is the 
reason why he left it with the dealership and the reason why he called RCI.
So I think RCI should allow Mr M to reject the car and return Mr Ms deposit adding interest 
as hes been deprived of this money whilst progressing his complaint. I can see that Mr M 
has incurred costs for a courtesy car. It would be fair for RCI to refund all costs Mr M had to 
pay to fund a courtesy car as he would not have had to do so if he had the car he wanted  in 
a satisfactory condition. Mr M will need to provide receipts so that RCI can action this.
Its clear Mr M has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to progress a detailed  
complaint; contact recovery services on a couple of occasions and refer his car back  to the 
dealership. In those  circumstances I think RCI should  pay him some  compensation; I think 
£100 is fair.
Mr M says hes not cancelled his direct  debit and has kept up with payments. Hes explained 
that the car is still on his drive and hes told me the odometer reading is only 95 miles. It 
would be fair for RCI to retain some  of the finance  instalments Mr M has paid to compensate  
them for the usage Mr M has had of the car. But as hes barely used it I am not suggesting 
RCI retain any instalments theyve  received.  They should refund them and add interest. 
Ref: DRN22251353my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services  
Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
reimburse Mr M for courtesy car costs on provision of receipts. Add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  caused;
refund  all finance instalments Mr M has paid due to loss of use and add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2225135