K822xcomplaint
Ms M says she was affected by TSB Bank  plcs IT issues in April.  
background 
Ms M says she had no access to her online banking after the problems with TSBs IT system 
in April. Even after TSB said it fixed the problems, Ms M continued having issues accessing 
her account  online.  She tried to re-set her password and memorable information multiple 
times but was unsuccessful. She also says she had to come  home  a day early  from a 
holiday in order to go into a branch  with her identification to unblock her account. 
Ms M had an increased telephone bill in May as she had to call TSB to complete transfers 
and attempt to fix her online banking access.  This led to her being charged  an additional 
£88.13 on her telephone  bill. 
Our adjudicator assessed Ms Ms case and felt TSB should refund the £88.13  in call costs. 
He also felt TSB should pay Ms M £150 to compensate her for the distress  and 
inconvenience the matter had caused.  
Ms M disagreed with the recommendation  and felt she should receive more compensation. A 
second adjudicator felt that as the additional calls in Ms Ms May telephone bill werent  to 
TSB she didnt agree  Ms M incurred  additional charges as a direct result of TSB. But she still 
recommended TSB refund the additional  costs on Ms Ms telephone bill. And she agreed  
with the initial adjudicator  that £150  compensation was a fair amount. 
The case  was passed to me. After looking at all the information, I felt £300  compensation 
was a more accurate reflection of the distress  and inconvenience Ms M had been  caused. 
My provisional decision read as follows:
The timeline of when Ms M did and did not have  access to her online banking isnt clear, so 
Ive pieced together what I think likely  happened  from Ms Ms TSB statements and the 
telephone bills I have  on file. 
I can see that on 9 May 2018 Ms M spent over an hour on the phone  to TSB. On the same  
day, she made a faster payment for her rent. So its more likely Ms M didnt have  online  
access at that time and had to telephone TSB in order to make a transfer. Ms M made  a 
number of short calls later on in May and again  called for over an hour on 21 May 2018.  So it 
again seems likely Ms M didnt have  online access at that time.
On 25 August 2018, Ms M spent  over an hour and a half on the phone  to TSB as she tried to 
re-set her online bankings password  and memorable information. She was given seven 
separate one-time  passwords during the day and was eventually locked out of her online 
account.  She had to go into branch  three days later to provide her identification  to unblock 
the account; the delay was due to a bank holiday. 
Ms M has also mentioned  that she had to come home a day early from a holiday to pay bills 
as she had no online access to complete  transfers. I dont have much additional information 
about this, but I have  considered this when reaching  a decision. And on 5 September 2018, 
Ms M made  a faster payment that was intended to go to her rent account but she says this 
was sent to an incorrect account that also belonged to her. As a result,  she was late paying 
her rent. This also coincides with a 30 minute  phone call to TSB. 
Ref: DRN26495412Ive taken into account all of the individual  issues Ms M had, and I can see this must have 
caused Ms M a lot of distress and inconvenience.  Based on the information I have so far, Im 
minded to increase the recommendation  of compensation to £300. I feel this better reflects 
the worry Ms M has been  caused. 
In relation to the telephone bill, I agree that this is a financial  loss thats been caused by 
TSB. Ms M went over the minutes in her plan by around 116 minutes and she called TSB 
that month  for 166 minutes. And its unclear if Ms M also had to call other organisations as a 
result of TSBs  IT error.  So if it hadnt  been for the IT glitch, I think  its likely Ms M wouldnt 
have gone over the minutes included in her plan that month.  
TSB didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision. Ms M responded with some additional 
comments she wanted me to consider. In summary,  Ms M felt the compensation Id 
recommended didnt reflect the distress  and inconvenience shed experienced. She 
reiterated that in May and August she spent a considerable  amount of time trying to fix her 
online banking. And that she had been  without full banking services  for several  months 
because of these  issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to thank Ms M for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Ive 
thought about what shes said and in doing so I can assure Ms M these points were 
considered in my provisional decision.  
I understand that the distress and inconvenience that individuals are caused  can be 
subjective. What  one person might think of as reasonable compensation for the worry 
caused might not been seen as enough  by someone else who went  through  the exact same 
situation. While I appreciate Ms M wants increased  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused, I have to consider what I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that Ms M went through  a stressful time due to TSBs IT issues and that she spent 
a long time trying to fix the problems she encountered. And Ive thought  about  everything 
shes said when coming to my decision. Taking everything into account, my decision 
remains unchanged that £300 compensation is a fair amount to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience Ms M has been  caused. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
Pay Ms M £300 for the impact  the IT issues had;
And pay £88.13  for the call costs Ms M incurred.
Ref: DRN26495413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
TSB Bank Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above   if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2649541