K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bradford  & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs D bought  a regular premium MPPI policy in 1992.  It was designed to protect 
their repayments on a mortgage  with the B&B if Mrs D couldnt work due to illness, injury  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint for the following  reasons.
Ive had a look at Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application and can see there  was a separate 
section for MPPI. There is a handwritten YES  in response  to the question asking 
customers if they wanted MPPI. There is an instruction in this question for customers to write 
Yes/No depending on whether they wanted  to accept or decline MPPI. I can see their form 
does have a handwritten NO for another product so I think its likely they were aware they 
couldve also said No if they didnt want MPPI.  
Mr and Mrs D requested  a benefit  of £200 for Mrs D only (also  handwritten). There  is a tick 
next to the full cover for accident, sickness and unemployment while there  was a less 
extensive option available. Their mortgage  offer clearly sets out the cost of the policy.  It also 
specifies the benefit of £200 for Mrs D only. B&B has sent us a copy of a letter  Mr and Mrs D 
sent B&B in 1994 requesting the cancellation of the MPPI so it looks like they were aware 
they had the cover. 
So taking everything into account, I think B&B made it clear  that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to 
take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out to cover their mortgage payments. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they were advised  to take out the policy.  B&B say that no such advice 
was given. I havent seen anything that suggests B&B either assessed their circumstances 
or gave  them a tailored recommendation to take the MPPI so I dont think it advised them to 
take the MPPI. So it didnt have to check if it was right for them.  But it did have to make sure 
they got the information they needed to decide  if it was right for them.   
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs D about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the MPPI  so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And Mrs D (as the sole policy holder) met the eligibility  requirements  for the 
policy. She also doesnt appear to be affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
Ref: DRN20686182MPPI cover. They also seem to have had a need for the cover and I havent seen anything  
that suggests it was unaffordable for them. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D say they had good  sick pay and other  means available to help 
them make their repayments if they were unexpectedly out of work. But as explained above, 
B&B only needed  to provide clear  information about the policy.  And B&B did set out the cost 
and benefit of the policy. It was then really up to Mr and Mrs D to either  take the cover if they 
thought it was right for them, or decline  it if they didnt feel they needed it because of the 
other means  they had available. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Ds to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2068618