K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) blocked  his account and hasnt explained why. 
Mr M wants BOS  to compensate him for the trouble and upset he was caused because  he 
wasnt able to use his account.
background
Mr M had a personal account with BOS. In June  2018, BOS  decided to block  Mr Ms 
account. This meant he didnt have access to the money in his account.  Mr M complained to 
BOS about the block on his account. It wrote to Mr M and told him that the block was due to 
a processing delay. BOS  unblocked Mr Ms account  on 13 July 2018. 
Mr M says BOS  hasnt properly explained the reasons why it decided to block  his account. 
Hes said because his account  was blocked  he had to borrow  money  from friends to get by 
and wasnt able to buy a gift for one of his children.  He says this caused him a great  deal of 
stress and upset. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. BOS told the investigator that it hadnt  
done anything  wrong when it blocked  Mr Ms account. And that it had acted  in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account  to meet its regulatory obligations. In response the 
investigator said that whilst she understood the terms and conditions allowed BOS  to block 
Mr Ms account, she needed more information  from BOS so that she could  decide  whether it 
had acted fairly in applying  the block. BOS said it wouldnt provide any more information to 
the investigator. 
The investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. She said BOS should  pay Mr M £50 for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the block to his account. BOS agreed.  Mr M didnt. He said the 
compensation offered didnt reflect the amount  of trouble and upset hed been  caused. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint was passed  to me. 
On 22 February 2019, I issued a provisional  decision on this complaint. In my provisional 
decision I explained my conclusions and reasons for why I thought  BOS  should pay Mr M 
more compensation.  Below is an excerpt  from the provisional decision.
A bank  is entitled  to review and an account  with a customer. But it must do so in a way, 
which complies with the terms  and conditions of the account. BOS told the investigator that 
the block to Mr Ms account  was applied to meet its regulatory requirements  in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms account.  However, BOS hasnt provided  any information or 
evidence to support  this. So I dont have enough  information to be satisfied that BOS acted 
in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations. And in this particular  case, because  of the 
lack of information, I cant be satisfied that BOS treated Mr M fairly.   
Mr M says the figure of £50 proposed by our investigator isnt high enough to compensate 
him for everything hes experienced. I understand Mr Ms strength  of feeling on the matter,  
but I should explain that its not within this services remit  to sanction or punish businesses, 
but simply to put things  right for individual consumers.
Having looked  at what Mr M has told us about how the block  affected him, I do think  that 
Mr M was caused some  distress  and inconvenience. Mr M says he couldnt  access his 
account for nearly  a month and had to borrow money from friends  for everyday  living  
expenses. Hes also said that he wasnt able to buy a gift for his childs  birthday and that he 
Ref: DRN28865572made a number of calls to BOS  to try and find out what was going  on. Ive no doubt  all of this 
had a significant impact  on Mr M, causing him concern  and worry about paying  bills for just 
under a month. 
Overall, having reviewed all the information  relating to this case, I think that £150  is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset resulting from BOS not 
treating him fairly.
Mr M didnt  respond to the provisional decision. BOS  accepted  the provisional decision and 
said it had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M and BOS  havent made  any more  comments, or offered any more  evidence, my 
findings about this complaint havent  changed. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint. BOS should  pay Mr M £150 for the trouble and upset 
hes experienced as a result of BOS blocking his account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Mr M £150 for the trouble  and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2886557