K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) missed  a scheduled 
appointment, causing him to lose a days pay.
background 
Mr D held a HomeCare policy with British Gas. He arranged an appointment for 2 November 
2018 for British  Gas to service the boiler   and he says he took the day off work  to wait for 
the engineer.
On the day of the appointment  British Gas called Mr D late in the day to tell him the engineer  
wasnt going to make the appointment. It arranged a new appointment with a two-hour slot a 
few days later. And it offered Mr D £30 compensation for the inconvenience of the missed 
appointment. Mr D wasnt satisfied with this and requested that British Gas pay him loss of 
earnings for the day that hed taken  off work. He said that as he was self-employed, he 
hadnt been paid for the time hed been  waiting for the British  Gas engineer.
British Gas explained to Mr D that it didnt generally  pay loss of earnings but agreed to 
consider it. Mr D explained that it would amount to £400 so British  Gas asked him for a copy 
of his contract,  which he provided. British Gas agreed that Mr Ds daily rate was £400 but 
said it didnt have any evidence that Mr D was due to work that day and that Mr D has lost 
out because of the missed appointment. Mr D didnt agree and brought the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that this service wouldnt 
usually award compensation for loss of earnings  in a complaint  like this and thought the 
£100 offered was fair and reasonable. Mr D didnt agree  so the complaint  has been passed  
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Its clear that British Gas didnt provide  a good  level of customer service in missing a 
scheduled appointment and leaving it until late in the day to contact Mr D to let him know  
and British Gas has already  acknowledged  this. So the only issue for me to decide is how 
much compensation and/or loss of earnings  British  Gas should pay Mr D.
Mr D says British Gas should pay £400  the amount he wouldve  received if he hadnt had 
to miss a day at work.  But Mr D would  always have missed the initial day from work and had 
planned to have it off to wait for the British Gas engineer  to arrive. So I have considered  
what happened after that.
When British Gas rebooked the appointment, it agreed a two-hour slot with Mr D so he didnt 
have to wait for the entire day again. And while  Mr D has said that he had to convince  the 
engineer to attend the property, this did still happen  within the agreed time slot. So I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask British  Gas to pay for an entire day of missed work, when Mr D 
only had to wait for a further two hours that he had chosen, rather than the entire day.
Ref: DRN29639082I have considered whether British Gas should  pay Mr Ds loss of earnings  for these 
additional hours. But I havent  seen  any evidence that Mr D was due to work on that day. 
The evidence Mr D has provided  us doesnt show which days he was due to work or which 
days he was being paid for. So I dont  have any evidence to say that Mr D lost out as a result 
of this.
But I can see that Mr D has been  inconvenienced  by British Gas not turning up to the original 
appointment. I dont  think it would  be reasonable  to ask it to pay for Mr Ds loss of earnings. 
But British  Gas has offered Mr D £100 compensation for the inconvenience it caused in 
having to rearrange  the original appointment and I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr D has wider concerns about the way British Gas treats its customers. But my role is to 
look at what has happened in this complaint, so I wont be addressing any wider concerns.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. British Gas Services  Limited should pay 
Mr D a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2963908