K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy about 
the way it finalised  a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy.
background
I looked at this case and provided  my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr H was involved in an accident and looked  to get his vehicle repaired. During the repair 
Advantages repairer identified previous damage  to the vehicle.  So it offered a cash-in-lieu 
(CIL) payment as it couldnt  separate out the previous damage from the latest  accident  
damage. And it felt that to repair the previous damage would amount to betterment.
Mr H wasnt happy about this. He said there wasnt any pre-existing damage,  so he 
complained to Advantage and then this service. Advantage relied on its engineers  advice in 
saying that it had acted reasonable although it offered £50 compensation for the delay.
Our investigator looked into things for him and eventually upheld his complaint. This was 
because Mr H had provided a report from his garage  that confirmed he had a temporary 
repair to his vehicle  before  Advantages repairer looked at the car. She thought this 
explained the pre-existing damage.
But Advantage didnt agree. Its engineer looked  at Mr Hs garage  report and didnt feel that 
this explained  the level of damage or the corrosion to the damaged area.  So, the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be partly upheld. I think Mr H needs further  evidence to support his position. Although 
I agree  that he should be paid £150  compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused. 
Ill explain  why.
The key issue to decide is whether Advantage has acted  fairly in deciding  to pay Mr H a CIL 
payment as his vehicle  had previously sustained damage before being involved  in the 
accident he has claimed for.
But, as Mr H has been made aware,  I think he needs more evidence  to support his position 
that his vehicle didnt have any pre-existing damage. He has provided a report from his own 
repairing garage explaining that he undertook a temporary repair in order  to stay mobile 
before proceeding with a claim under his insurance  policy. From the report  Mr H has 
provided it is clear that some temporary  repairs were undertaken. And Im not sure this was 
fully considered by Advantage  when  it first looked  at the vehicle. 
But Advantage has sent a copy of Mr Hs report to its engineer and he has raised a few 
concerns that I agree  at this stage havent been answered. And so, I think Mr H would need  
to get his vehicle independently inspected in order to provide a far more  detailed report  
concerning any pre-existing damage. 
I say this as Advantages engineer has acknowledged  that there were some  new parts on 
the front of the vehicle  when it first looked at it (which Mr Hs initial  repairing garage said it 
Ref: DRN22478022undertook). But Advantage has clearly highlighted a number of issues  that still require 
explaining and, as yet, Mr H hasnt addressed these points and I think he needs to. 
Advantages engineer has identified that there  was also distortion and corrosion to the right-
hand front of the vehicle  that pre-existed the date of the accident. And Mr Hs report  hasnt 
addressed this. 
As such,  I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Mr H to obtain an independent 
report to support his position. I understand Mr H is looking to do this at present and I would 
expect Advantage  to consider this and to pay Mr Hs costs if this supports his position. I will 
simply leave Mr H to advance  this with Advantage and he can complain to this service  again 
if he remains unhappy with the outcome.
Finally, I agree that Mr H should be paid £150  compensation,  as opposed to £50. I say this 
as I think Advantage  has delayed  matters  and failed to consider Mr Hs position fully when it 
first considered the claim.  It didnt  really consider the fact that Mr H had taken the vehicle  for 
a temporary repair  in the first instance.
replies and developments
Both sides havent responded to my provisional decision. And no further comments or 
evidence has been provided. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither side has provided any further 
comment, I dont propose to rehearse  the arguments again  here.  And I see no reason to 
change my provisional view. 
So, Ill simply leave Mr H to gain an independent  report supporting his position and 
Advantage to consider any evidence he gains.  And I think Mr H should be paid £150  
compensation.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr H £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2247802