K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Think Money  Limited wont refund him for spending on his account  
made through his mobile phone. He says he didnt spend this money  himself   or agree to 
anybody else doing so. And he wants a genuine  letter of apology  and three  months free 
usage of the account.
background
Mr A got in touch with Think Money in March 2019 as hed noticed  a lot of payments going 
out of his account through an internet  gaming app on his phone.  At that time the amount 
involved was around £100. Mr A said he hadnt carried out this spending  and itd caused him 
to get into debt. So, he wanted the bank to refund the money.
Things were  made worse when Mr A said his card stopped working.  And he wasnt happy 
with the way some Think  Money staff had dealt with him. When hed got in touch with the 
bank, hed been told it wasnt fraud  because  the gaming app was linked to his Think Money 
account. And it seemed it was Mr As son that had used his phone.  So, it wouldnt be 
possible to get the money  back as Mr A had, effectively, authorised the spending.
Think Money responded formally to Mr As complaint.  It confirmed what  hed been initially 
told. In summary,  the bank said the app had been used to make  in game purchases, which 
had been used (in the game/app). So, there  wasnt any reason to ask the gaming  app 
provider to refund the money. And Think Money  wasnt willing to do so either  as the 
purchases would only have been possible because whoever  was using Mr As phone  wasnt  
restricted in what could  be done with it.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the banks response. So, he contacted us and one of our 
investigators looked into things for him. Mr A told us what  had happened   and the 
difficulties hed had as a result of not getting the spending refunded.  Hed now got a debt 
relief order.
Our investigator initially thought Think Money  should refund the spending  to Mr A. He 
accepted the in game purchases  were probably made by Mr As son. But he wasnt  
persuaded that Mr A had authorised and consented  to each of the transactions   particularly 
bearing in mind theyd  been made  under what is considered to be a distance  contract  
arrangement on a mobile device with card details  stored for future  use.
Mr A accepted the investigators findings.  But Think Money didnt. The bank asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.
In summary,  the bank  said the investigator  hadnt properly considered  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which set out when a financial business can hold a customer  
responsible for transactions, particularly when combined with the terms and conditions  of 
Mr As account.
Think Money went on to say that there had been  a number  of transactions  from December 
2018 using the same internet gaming app. Not all of these had been disputed  by Mr A. Hed 
originally told the bank his son was with him at weekends.  But a number  of the transactions  
Mr A was disputing had actually been  carried out during the week and very late at night. So, 
these would most likely have been  done  by Mr A  and therefore authorised.
Ref: DRN22404532The bank didnt  think it was its original decision to not refund the spending that had led to 
Mr A having  some problems with his wider finances.  The debt relief order hed referred to 
was dated before a number of the in-game purchases had been made.
Our investigator thought about  what Think  Money had said.  He thought  it was reasonable  
so he changed  his mind and said the bank didnt have to refund Mr A.
Unsurprisingly, Mr A wasnt  happy  with the change  in outcome. He said he hadnt given his 
son permission to use his phone with the intention of making in game purchases. So, he 
shouldnt be held responsible for something that he hadnt authorised. As Mr A was unhappy 
with the investigators  revised view, hes asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint 
and issue a final decision on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A feels quite  strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  hes 
said to both us and Think Money. And thats  not surprising. He says he wasnt  expecting this 
money to leave his account and its caused him difficulties.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr A that I agree  with the investigators  revised  opinion  on his 
complaint. Im not going  to ask Think Money  to refund the spending carried  out for in game 
purchases.
In coming to this decision, I have to take into account all the circumstances surrounding  the 
spending thats being disputed. And I have to take account of, amongst other  things, relevant 
law, rules and regulations.
have the relevant law, rules, regulations etc. been  considered?
Here the bank is right that the PSRs  are relevant. They are regulations made under statute  
so they are legal requirements. And, while  he didnt  refer to them  by name in his original 
view on the matter, the investigator  had thought about the requirements of the PSRs.
I note the investigator  originally referred  to the disputed spending being through what  is 
known as a distance contract.  In other words, was the spending carried out without Mr A 
being present  at the retailer at the time of purchase? While the answer to this is obviously 
no  as the purchases were made using Mr As mobile phone,  it doesnt automatically  
mean a customer gets a refund.
So, Im satisfied the relevant law, rules and regulations have been considered by the 
investigator. And I can see this is what was behind his original view.
Ref: DRN22404533the wider circumstances of the complaint
But the key thing is whether those requirements  can be applied to the circumstances Mr A 
has described. And I dont  think they can  as Im not persuaded by what he says happened.
The various requirements have to be put in context.  Thats what is meant by us having to 
consider all the circumstances of what  happened and, in light of those, deciding what is a fair 
and reasonable outcome  for both parties.
So, Ill go on to explain the issues Ive considered in coming to my conclusion  that it wouldnt 
be fair to make  Think Money refund Mr A the money  that was spent.
who carried out the in-game purchases?
Mr A has said he thinks it was his son that used  his phone   perhaps not intentionally  to 
make the in game purchases.  That was very much what  he told Think Money in the first 
instance  and to us later on.
I accept its possible some  of the purchases  might have been made by Mr As son. But the 
timing of a lot of them  late at night and on days of the week  when Mr A says his son wasnt 
with him  suggests  this was unlikely.
And I can see similar purchases  were made  before those disputed here. That points to Mr A 
making these purchases himself.
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But its where the available  evidence leads me.
did Mr A take reasonable steps to prevent unauthorised spending?
While I think its most  likely Mr A made the in game  purchases, I have to consider what  the 
position would be if didnt.
Here, I think  allowing somebody else (some) access to a facility where spending could take 
place does put Mr A in a difficult position. Im aware  the provider of the gaming app allows 
controls to be set up to stop such purchases  happening. Clearly Mr A didnt do this. So, it 
seems unfair to me to make Think  Money  responsible for that spending when the available 
controls were at Mr As disposal, rather than the bank.
summary
The available evidence suggests  Mr A may have carried out the in game purchases himself. 
If I were  to accept he didnt make all of them I still wouldnt make  Think Money refund the 
spending as I dont think Mr A took reasonable steps to stop it. And he has some 
responsibility in this matter. Its not all down to the bank to protect his account.
Im aware Mr A has said hes had some  difficulties with his finances. Hes referred to this 
spending leading  to him being in debt. Im sorry to hear that.
Id expect Think Money to be positive and sympathetic in helping  Mr A overcome these  
difficulties. That doesnt mean the bank has to let Mr A off any money he may owe it. It just 
means Think Money should work with him to agree a way forward.  And that, of course, 
needs Mr A to work  with the bank.
Ref: DRN22404534I realise Mr A will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Think Money informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  help 
Mr A any further on this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2240453