K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society (LV) has declined his income  
protection claim and cancelled his policy.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 June  2019,  an extract of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld, and I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision. 
LV replied  to my provisional decision and advised that it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr N replied and advised that his income  protection complaint was one of a number of 
different issues he was dealing with. He spoke about the impact that everything he was 
dealing with was having on him, and he responded to my provisional decision at length.  In 
summary, he said:
The question LV asked him when taking out his policy wasnt  whether hed ever had 
a mental illness. It was whether hed ever had mental illness  which had required 
hospital treatment  or referral to a psychiatrist. He did have a single occasion in 
which his mental  illness required referral to a psychiatrist, but he didnt recall that 
and had answered LVs question  truthfully  at the time.
His suicidal ideations  prior to his psychiatric referral were  irrelevant, and lots of 
people had periods in their lives where they felt stressed, depressed  or said theyd 
had suicidal ideations.  His policy  was taken out 18 years  after hed seen the 
psychiatrist.
There were  critical distinctions between anxiety and negative  thoughts,  and clinical  
depression. And what hed been through more recently was in no way similar to the 
episodes of stress, anxiety and feeling down which many  of the population suffered 
from.
To further  support his position, Mr N also provided another  letter from Dr L. That letter  was 
dated July 2019 and, in summary, said:
Dr L was surprised at the level of significance that had been  placed on the wider  
medical evidence  relating  to both Mr Ns recollection  of the psychiatrist referral and 
hospital treatment  in 1988, and his suicidal ideations  before that.
Evidence had shown that suicidal ideation and depressive symptoms  were common 
amongst the general population. And, neither suicidal ideation nor depressive 
symptoms, per se, mean  that referrals to a psychiatrist or hospital  treatment were 
required.
The majority  of mental health illnesses were managed within  primary care and didnt  
require treatment from psychiatric  services. Mr Ns history prior to 1988  didnt  mean 
that hed automatically  require secondary care psychiatric input. And, Mr N hadnt 
required regular psychiatric  input until July 2015.
Ref: DRN26818452Now that both sides have  had the opportunity to send  me any further comments and 
information, I need to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint and will explain why. 
Generally, when consumers apply for an insurance  policy theyll be asked a number  of 
different questions. Those questions are designed to help an insurer assess  the potential  
risks a consumer might  present to it. And, as a result  of the information the insurer  receives, 
itll go on to determine  what risks it is or isnt willing to cover. In simple  terms, its the 
insurers way of trying to assess how likely someone  is to go on and make a claim.  
When Mr N applied for his policy, LV asked him a number  of different questions. One of 
those questions was:
Do you currently have or have you ever had any of the following:
Mental illness that has required hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist.
Mr N answered  no' to that question.  But as I set out in my provisional  decision, the medical  
evidence in this case contradicted his answer  and showed  that Mr N had experienced 
mental illness which required a referral and treatment, in 1988. 
I appreciate that Mr N has said that he didnt recall his previous treatment/referral  and lots of 
people experienced mental health  issues. And that Dr L has set out his opinion  on why the 
events of 1988 werent of note to Mr N. But LV didnt ask Mr N whether  he remembered any 
mental illness which had required  hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist. It asked him 
whether hed ever had any mental  illness which had required that. I appreciate the nuance  in 
the difference between them, but they are two different  questions.
I acknowledge the points that both Mr N and Dr L have made  about  the frequency  of mental 
health problems  across the wider population, and the infrequency of which such problems 
actually require psychiatric referral or hospital  treatment. But the matter  I have to decide 
here is in relation to this case,  not what is or isnt common amongst the wider population.
Within my provisional decision I explained  that under the relevant law in place at the time,  
Mr N had a duty of utmost good faith to disclose every circumstance that he knew or ought 
to know would influence  LV in deciding whether to underwrite a risk. There  is 
contemporaneous medical evidence in this case which shows that Dr N had experienced 
mental health issues over a long period of time. I wont repeat what  that evidence shows 
again here nor why I think its reasonable to place weight on it, because that is set out within 
my provisional decision.
I recognise that Dr L is surprised that weight  has been placed  on this medical  evidence   
because in light of the extensive  evidence hes highlighted, its been shown that mental  
health problems  are common within the general  population  but the matter I am deciding 
here doesnt involve whats  common amongst the general population. It involves whether LV 
acted reasonably in the circumstances of this case. 
Ref: DRN26818453LV has shown this service  that it would not have offered Mr N an income protection  policy on 
any terms if his answer to the question it had asked him about his mental  health  had been 
answered more accurately.
I appreciate Mr N says he had forgotten about  the events of 1988. And I accept  that they 
took place a long time before Mr N applied  for his policy.  But, in forgetting about them,  Mr N 
misrepresented his position  to LV. He may not have done so deliberately, but if he had any 
vagueness or uncertainty about  what he was being  asked or the answers that he shouldve  
disclosed, he should have checked further before answering them. Mr N could have, by way 
of an example, looked at his medical  records or spoken to his GP about his past medical 
history before providing LV with his answers.
LV has evidenced  that it wouldnt have offered Mr N a policy  on any terms at all if hed 
answered yes to the question it had asked  him. And in line with this services  established  
approach, I dont think it acted unreasonably in avoiding Mr Ns policy, declining his claim 
and returning  his premiums. That was, ultimately,  LVs way of putting Mr N back into the 
position that he should have been had it not been for his misrepresentation. 
Within my provisional decision I said that I had no reason to doubt that this was, and 
continued to be, a very difficult time for Mr N. I echo that sentiment here again,  and I 
empathise with the position that Mr N is in. But overall Im not persuaded that LV acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this case,  so I wont be asking it to do anything.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26818454Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr N complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) has declined his income  
protection claim and cancelled his policy.
background
In 2006, Mr N took out an income protection policy  with LV. The policy  was designed to provide him 
with a monthly benefit in the event of him being unable  to work due to ill health and, in 2018, Mr N 
made a claim on that basis.  
He told LV that he was no longer able to work because of his mental health.  But when  LV asked for 
the medical records relating to that, it discovered  Mr N had a history of psychiatric  issues. And, eight 
years before purchasing the policy, had received both hospital treatment and psychiatric referral  as a 
result of his mental health.
LV said itd specifically asked Mr N about any hospital treatment  or psychiatric  referral  relating to his 
mental health when hed applied for the policy, and if itd known what had actually taken place  it 
wouldnt have offered him the cover. LV declined Mr Ns claim and said it would be cancelling his 
policy and returning  all of his premiums. But Mr N said hed forgotten about the previous hospital  
treatment and psychiatric referral and asked LV to consider a letter from his current  psychiatrist which 
supported that. When that letter didnt change LVs decision,  Mr N approached this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but didnt think  the previous hospital treatment 
and psychiatric referral  were  quite in line with what LV had asked Mr N during the application process. 
She thought  it reasonable  that Mr N could  have  forgotten about the previous events and 
recommended that LV reinstate his policy  and deal with his claim. She also recommended that LV 
pay Mr N £300 to recognise  the trouble and upset it had caused.
LV disagreed with our investigators  opinion and said the question itd asked at the time of the 
application was clear.  It said that time didnt  negate  the need for disclosure  and Mr N had 
misrepresented his medical history. LV explained that it wouldnt have offered  cover had Mr N 
disclosed his past medical history and it hadnt acted unreasonably in avoiding the policy, refusing the 
claim and returning Mr Ns premiums. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ns policy was taken out in 2006. The rules governing  misrepresentation at that time were 
contained within the Marine Insurance Act 1906.  That Act placed a duty of utmost good faith on an 
individual to disclose every  circumstance that he or she knew, or shouldve known, which would  
influence an insurer on deciding  whether to underwrite  a risk.
At the time of applying for his income  protection policy, Mr N was asked:
Do you currently have or have you ever had any of the following:
Mental illness that has required hospital treatment or referral  to a psychiatrist
Ref: DRN26818455He answered  no to that question. But the available medical evidence shows that he had required both 
hospital treatment and referral to a psychiatrist as a result of his mental health. 
In a letter  dated 9 September 1988, a Senior  House Officer  working under  a Consultant  Psychiatrist  at 
Whitchurch Hospital confirmed that Mr N had been referred to an Emergency Assessment  Clinic 
there. The letter  reported  that Mr N had been suffering from low mood in the six to eight weeks prior 
to his referral, had lost a large amount of weight and had been experiencing suicidal  ideation (both at 
the time of the referral and in the years preceding  it). 
The letter diagnosed Mr N with endogenous depression , confirmed that hed been started  on a 
course of medication,  and advised that hed been reviewed again a week later before being  
discharged back to his GP. 
Mr N has said that the reason he didnt  disclose  this information  at the time of his application was 
because hed forgotten about it. To support that, he has provided a letter dated July 2018 from Dr L, a 
Consultant Psychiatrist, who has said:
 Mr N does  not have any recollection of this particular  referral  to the psychiatrist. The fact that he 
responded very quickly to Prothiaden (within  a week), would indicate  that of an acute stress  reaction 
as antidepressants  tend to take between 2-6 weeks to have any beneficial effect. I suspect  that he 
had the benefit from the sedative effects of Prothiaden,  which has dampened  his anxiety and stress  at 
the time. This is in the context of exam stresses and need to prepare for the exams, which were  due 
to happen around that time. I am not surprised that he may have forgotten the event  especially  when 
he was only seen for a very short period of time i.e. two occasions in that one week and it was likely  
that the occasions/appointments would be fairly  short of about  an hour (as is usually the case for 
initial assessments). I am not entirely sure whether this would have registered  as significant  enough  
for him to remember especially in the context of the other stresses as well as the stress of his exams.  
Dr Ls opinion appears to be that Mr Ns 1988 referral and treatment  was largely in relation to his 
exam stress at the time,  and the events  themselves  may not have been significant enough for them to 
be remembered.  But the wider medical evidence  available in this case shows that Mr N had been 
feeling very low in the six to eight weeks leading  up to that referral, had lost a significant amount  of 
weight in a relatively short space of time, and had been experiencing suicidal ideations at the time.  
The wider evidence also shows that Mr N had experienced suicidal  ideations five years prior to his 
referral as well. And had gone as far as actually taking himself  to the place where  hed thought  about 
taking his own life. It further shows that Mr N had continued to suffer with mental health  issues long 
after the events of 1988  with the medical evidence reflecting a history of anxiety, depression  and 
suicidal thoughts from 1988 to 1999, all of which had required regular  medication. 
So although I appreciate Dr Ls opinion,  Im not persuaded that it corroborates whats shown in the 
wider evidence.  It is for the reasons given  above that Im not persuaded  that I can reasonably 
consider Mr Ns hospital treatment and psychiatric referral  in 1988 to be related to his exam stress  
alone either. And why Im not persuaded that I can consider it as something that wasnt significant 
enough to be remembered.
At the time of his application, LV had asked Mr N whether hed ever had any mental  illness that had 
required hospital treatment  or referral to a psychiatrist. The relevant legislation in place at the time 
placed a duty of utmost good faith on Mr N to disclose  every circumstance  that he knew, or should  
have known, which would  influence LV in deciding  whether to underwrite  a risk. Based on the events 
that both led to, and followed  on from, Mr Ns hospital  treatment and psychiatric referral in 1988,  Im 
currently of the opinion that he should have known to disclose that information to LV. So Ive thought  
about what would have happened had he done so.
Ref: DRN26818456LV has shown this service  that it wouldnt have considered Mr N eligible for cover. The insurer has 
explained that Mr N already had an exclusion  for back related issues on his policy. And although it 
wouldve considered a mental health exclusion for Mr N, the two exclusions alongside his occupation  
(a profession LV said could aggravate back problems),  wouldve led to him been considered an 
unattractive risk. His application would  therefore have been  declined.
Mr N thinks  LV has said that as a matter  of convenience, but Im satisfied that the insurer  has 
demonstrated it wouldnt have offered  him the income protection policy if itd known the true extent of 
his psychiatric history when he applied for it in 2006. It therefore  follows that I dont think its 
unreasonable of LV to put Mr N back in the position that he wouldve been had he disclosed that 
information  that position  being an individual that wouldnt have had an income protection policy with 
LV.
I have no reason to doubt that this has (and continues to be) a difficult  time for Mr N. But whilst I 
recognise hell be disappointed by my provisional  findings, Im currently minded to find that LV hasnt  
acted unreasonably  in declining his claim,  cancelling  his policy  and refunding  his premiums. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. If either  side has anything  
further to add, they should  do so by 11 July 2019. I will then reconsider  the complaint before reaching 
my final decision. 
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2681845