K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say NRAM Limited mis-sold them mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
In 1990 Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with a Building Society that later became part of 
NRAM. At the same time they were sold a PPI policy. The policy  cost £22.50  per month  and 
covered both Mr and Mrs P against  being unable  to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The benefit was £500 per month  and was split equally between                  
Mr and Mrs P. If either Mr or Mrs P had made a successful claim the policy could have  paid 
out £250 for up to 24 months  per claim.
In November 1991 the Building Society wrote to Mr and Mrs P to say the maximum number 
of months the policy would pay out for per claim had been reduced to 12 months from 24.
In 1994 Mr and Mrs Ps Building Society merged with another  Building Society. The PPI 
policy insurer changed and Mr and Mrs P were sent an application  form to complete if they 
wanted cover to continue. Mr and Mrs P completed the application form to say they wanted 
cover of £300 per month, split between them. The new premium  was £24 per month and the 
cover began in January  1995.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs P re-mortgaged to a different Building Society but continued to pay for 
the PPI policy. In 2013 Mrs P made a successful claim on the policy and received a total of 
£1,800. The policy was cancelled in November 2013. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs P complained about the PPI policy,  initially they complained  only about 
the level of commission  NRAM had received. Later  they complained  that the PPI was      
mis-sold to them. 
NRAM said there were two, separate policies sold to Mr and Mrs P. The original in 1990  and 
the second sale in 1994. But Mr and Mrs P say there was only one sale in 1990 and the 
application form they completed in 1994  was to continue  cover and was not to apply for a 
new policy. I will address this issue in my findings later.
In any event NRAM says it didnt mis-sell either policy to Mr and Mrs P.
But NRAM did make  an offer to Mr and Mrs P of £1,017.74 for undisclosed commission  it 
received after Mr and Mrs P completed the application form in 1994.
Our adjudicator found that two policies were sold to Mr and Mrs P. One in 1990 and a 
replacement in 1994. Based on what hed seen so far the adjudicator thought  the 1990 
policy only covered  Mr P. The adjudicator went on to find that the 1990  policy  had been     
mis-sold but the 1994 had not been mis-sold. The adjudicator thought NRAM should refund 
all the premiums paid for the first policy between 1990 and 1994. And the adjudicator  
thought NRAMs  offer to pay £1,017.74 for undisclosed commission  on the second policy 
was fair.
Mr and Mrs P then sent further  evidence which showed that the 1990  policy  actually covered 
both of them. Taking this into account  the adjudicator then revised his findings to say that the 
1990 policy had not been mis-sold.
Ref: DRN27748032Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators finding that the policies were  not mis-sold.  
They also questioned why NRAM is only offering to refund undisclosed  commission from 
January 1995  onwards rather than from 1990 onwards.
The complaint was then passed to me.
In September  2019 I issued my provisional findings  on this complaint and invited both parties 
to comment and send  me any additional evidence they wanted  me to think  about. A copy  of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold this complaint,  my main  
reasons were:
I thought two separate policies were  sold, one in 1990 and the other in 1994.
I didnt think either  policy had been mis-sold.
NRAM has offered to give Mr and Mrs P back some of the cost of the PPI sold in 
1994. I didnt think it needed to do anything  more. 
NRAM has not responded to my provisional  findings.
Mr and Mrs P have  said they are disappointed  with my provisional  findings but have  no more 
evidence to submit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither NRAM nor Mr and Mrs P have replied with any new evidence or points for me to 
consider. Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision in September 2019.
my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policies sold in 1990  and 1994 were  not mis-sold  so I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN27748033
Ref: DRN27748034copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P say NRAM Limited mis-sold them mortgage  payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
In 1990 Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with a Building Society that later became  part of NRAM.  At 
the same time they were  sold a PPI policy. The policy cost £22.50 per month and covered both Mr 
and Mrs P against being unable  to work  due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.  The benefit 
was £500 per month and was split equally between                  Mr and Mrs P. If either Mr or Mrs P had 
made a successful claim the policy could have paid out £250 for up to 24 months per claim.
In November 1991 the Building Society wrote to Mr and Mrs P to say the maximum  number of months 
the policy  would pay out for per claim  had been  reduced to 12 months from 24.
In 1994 Mr and Mrs Ps Building Society merged with another Building  Society. The PPI policy insurer 
changed and Mr and Mrs P were sent an application  form to complete  if they wanted cover to 
continue. Mr and Mrs P completed the application form to say they wanted cover of £300 per month, 
split between them. The new premium was £24 per month and the cover  began  in January 1995.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs P re-mortgaged  to a different Building Society but continued  to pay for the PPI 
policy. In 2013 Mrs P made a successful claim on the policy and received a total of £1,800.  The policy 
was cancelled in November 2013. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs P complained about  the PPI policy, initially  they complained only about  the level 
of commission NRAM had received. Later they complained that the PPI was      mis-sold to them.  
NRAM said there were two, separate  policies sold to Mr and Mrs P. The original  in 1990 and the 
second sale in 1994. But Mr and Mrs P say there was only one sale in 1990 and the application  form 
they completed in 1994 was to continue  cover  and was not to apply for a new policy. I will address 
this issue  in my findings  later.
In any event NRAM says it didnt mis-sell  either policy  to Mr and Mrs P.
But NRAM  did make  an offer to Mr and Mrs P of £1,017.74 for undisclosed commission it received 
after Mr and Mrs P completed the application form in 1994.
Our adjudicator found  that two policies  were sold to Mr and Mrs P. One in 1990 and a replacement  in 
1994. Based on what hed seen so far the adjudicator  thought the 1990 policy  only covered  Mr P. The 
adjudicator went on to find that the 1990 policy had been      mis-sold but the 1994  had not been mis-
sold. The adjudicator thought  NRAM should refund all the premiums paid for the first policy  between  
1990 and 1994. And the adjudicator thought NRAMs  offer to pay £1,017.74 for undisclosed 
commission on the second policy was fair.
Mr and Mrs P then sent further evidence  which  showed that the 1990  policy actually covered  both of 
them. Taking this into account the adjudicator then revised his findings  to say that the 1990 policy  had 
not been  mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators finding that the policies were  not mis-sold. They also 
question why NRAM is only offering to refund undisclosed commission from January 1995 onwards 
rather than from 1990 onwards.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
Ref: DRN27748035my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
were two policies sold?
Ive thought about whether the original policy sold in 1990 was replaced by the policy  that was sold in 
October 1994 and came into force in January 1995. Ive seen a copy of a document completed by Mr 
and Mrs P in October 1994.  The document  is headed  Application Form. Mr and Mrs P have selected 
the level of cover  as accident, sickness and unemployment  and the level of monthly benefit as £150 
each. Below  this section is a statement  headed,  Disclosure.
The statement reads, Remember  your application  is a proposal for Insurance. Any facts  or 
information known to you which are likely to influence the acceptance of the application  must  be 
disclosed.
At the bottom  of the form is a direct  debit  mandate that has been completed and signed by Mr P.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs P believe  the form was only a formality  to allow their cover to continue  I 
think it represents an application for a new policy. Most likely  required as the policy insurer was 
changing. 
Therefore I consider that two distinct sales took place. The original in 1990 and the second in October  
1994 when the above form was completed. 
Because of this Ive looked at each sale separately.
The 1990 sale  
Mr and Mrs P recall that the original sale took place  during a meeting.
From what Ive seen of the original mortgage  application  and subsequent letters  that were  sent to Mr 
and Mrs P it looks like NRAM made Mr and Mrs P aware they didnt have to buy the policy  and they 
chose to take it. 
Because the policy was sold during a meeting I think its most likely  Mr and Mrs P were given  advice 
by NRAM. So NRAM had a duty to ensure the policy was right for Mr and     Mrs P. And based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances in 1990 I think it was. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs P were both working at the time of the application and were  eligible for the cover.  So 
theyd have been able to make a successful claim if theyd needed to.
The policy had some limitations and exclusions but these did not affect either  Mr or Mrs P. For 
example they didnt have any existing  medical conditions  that wouldnt have  been covered.
Mr and Mrs P were both first time buyers taking on a significant  new financial commitment.  The 
mortgage was secured  on their new home so I think it is likely they would have wanted to be sure they 
could continue to meet the repayments  if something went wrong.
Mrs P has told us her employer would likely have paid only statutory sick pay if she could not work so 
I think  she had a need  for the cover.
Mr P worked in the public sector and would  have received six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay if he became too unwell to work. But I see this particular policy, at the time of sale,  could 
Ref: DRN27748036have paid a monthly benefit for up to 24 months. So I still think Mr P would have found  it useful if he 
became too unwell to work. Particularly if he remained unwell for a prolonged period of time.
I cant  know  what information Mr and Mrs P were  given at the meeting in 1990. Its possible NRAM  did 
not give them  all the information is should have. But I think the policy was suitable  for them, and it 
looks like they were  interested  in this type of cover. So even if NRAM had provided all the clear  
information that it should  have, I still think Mr and Mrs P would have taken  the policy.
So I dont think the 1990  policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs P.
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure  of commission 
where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy   
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer,  then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back  
the amount of commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added  to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came  into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained  that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
NRAM has given me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was taken  out in 1990 and 
ended in 2002 . So based on what Ive said above, I dont think  the unfair  relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules  and guidance made by the FCA in 
relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply  here.
So NRAM doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI policy  they 
took out in 1990 which was replaced with a new policy in 1994.
the policy  sold in 1994
Ive seen the application form for the policy sold in 1994. It looks like it was sent to Mr and Mrs P in 
the post. They  completed  it in October 1994 and returned it. So I think  its clear  they were aware they 
had a choice about whether  to buy it or not.
Because the sale was completed by post I dont think NRAM gave Mr and Mrs P advice about  this 
policy. That means  NRAM didnt  have  to make sure it was right for them.  But it did have to give Mr 
and Mrs P clear information  about  the policy.
I cant  be sure what information NRAM  gave Mr and Mrs P at the time of the sale. 
Its possible that NRAM didnt give all the information it should  have done. But thats not enough to 
uphold this complaint. I next need to decide  whether or not Mr and Mrs P would have changed their 
minds about  buying the policy if they had been given  better or clearer information.  I cant say they 
would have done. 
Both were  working  and eligible for the cover and Ive seen no evidence that they would have been 
affected by the main  exclusions, such as those  applying to pre-existing medical conditions or unusual  
employment circumstances.
Mr P has said he had no need for the policy because he would have received a good level of sick pay 
if hed become unable to work. But the PPI policy would pay a benefit for up to 12 months.  This is 
longer than Mr P would have received  full sick pay from his employer. And Mr P would likely have 
Ref: DRN27748037been aware  of his work benefits when  he completed the application form. So overall I still think  the 
policy would have been useful if Mr P had an accident or became too unwell to work.
The policy could also have paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs P had been made 
redundant, meaning they could use any redundancy pay for other living  costs.
In summary it looks  like Mr and Mrs P they were interested in this type of cover, they completed the 
application form and chose the level of cover. And the premium was included on the form so they 
were aware of the cost. So even if NRAM had provided all the clear  information  that it should  have, I 
still think Mr and Mrs P would have gone ahead and taken the policy.
This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So NRAM doesnt  need to refund everything Mr and 
Mrs P paid for it. But NRAM has already offered to give Mr and Mrs P back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
I realise Mr and Mrs P also complained about another PPI policy  they were  sold by another business. 
And the other business upheld  their complaint. Different businesses sold PPI in a variety of ways  and 
PPI policies differed from one business to another. So because one business  upholds  a complaint 
about a particular PPI policy it doesnt necessarily follow that another  business will follow  suit. In this 
case Ive looked at all the evidence  and information  available relating  to this complaint, and I dont 
think these PPI policies were mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2774803