K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  pursued him for the 
shortfall debt after his property was sold. He asks that Halifax deals with him directly instead 
of through debt collection agencies and puts in place a payment plan with proper accounting.  
Mr B is represented by a family member in bringing  this complaint.
background
Mr B had a joint mortgage with Halifax. His property was taken into possession  and sold. 
The sale proceeds  werent enough to repay  the mortgage and there  was a shortfall debt.
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  has since passed the debt to a number of debt collection  
businesses. He didnt  get a response to a letter  he sent in 2015. Hes recently been 
contacted by another debt collection agency  claiming to be acting for Halifax. Mr B says he 
doesnt know who he should be dealing with.
Our investigator said lenders are entitled  to use debt collection agencies,  and can use more 
than one over a period of time. He said both Halifax and the debt collection agency had 
written to Mr B about the debt, so he did know who to contact. Our investigator said Halifax  
had responded  to Mr Bs letter in 2015.
Mr B didnt agree. His representative made  detailed  comments on his behalf. He asked that 
we take into account the history of the mortgage  account, how the shortfall debt came  about 
and the reasons why it hasnt been repaid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representative has described  the circumstances that led to this complaint, and how it 
has affected Mr B. Mr Bs family has difficult and upsetting issues to deal with. Im sorry for 
the circumstances the representative has described.
Here though I must consider  the complaint that was raised with Halifax  in October 2018 and 
whether Halifax has acted fairly. The complaint  raised by Mr B was, in summary:  
Mr B didnt  receive a response to a letter  dated  15 October 2015.
Mr B received letters in 2018 from a debt collection  agency  about the debt. This was the 
latest of several  lenders and debt collection agencies that had contacted  him, leaving 
him with no idea who to contact.  He was concerned about a letter  provided by the debt 
collection agency which didnt  look authentic.  
Halifax says it did respond  to Mr Bs letter in 2015 and provided a copy with its final 
response letter. Im sorry Mr B didnt receive Halifaxs  letter  in 2015,  but I dont think  I can 
reasonably find that this was due to an error by Halifax.
Halifax is entitled to appoint a debt collection agency to help it to recover debts. It can 
change which debt collection agency it uses. A debt collection agency wrote  to Mr B in 2018 
saying it was responsible for collecting the debt.  Halifax also wrote to Mr B to say the debt 
Ref: DRN26150522had been passed to the debt collection agency.  And Halifax confirmed this in its final 
response letter. I think Halifax did enough to make it clear who Mr B should  contact about 
the debt.
I cant reasonably require Halifax to manage Mr Bs account itself.  Its entitled to use the 
services of debt collection  businesses. 
Mr B says he wants to agree a payment plan. If so, Id urge Mr B to contact  the debt 
collection agency and provide the information  it reasonably requests with the aim of agreeing  
this. Id remind Halifax of its duty to treat Mr B fairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2021.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2615052