K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) 
decision to decline a claim under their buildings insurance policy.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  and set out the background of the 
complaint as:-
Mr and Mrs D made a claim for subsidence damage to their outbuilding in November 2017. 
LV appointed a loss adjustor who accepted the damage was consistent with subsidence,  but 
said it had occurred due to inadequate construction of the foundations.  
The loss adjustor reported that the subsidence  resulted from clay shrinkage caused by 
vegetation extracting  moisture  from the shrinkable  clay subsoil from the foundations. LV said 
this wouldnt have happened if the outbuilding had been constructed  in line with building  
guidelines. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  about  this. They said the outbuilding was built prior to them 
purchasing the house and vegetation  was already present then. They  also said they had a 
copy of a certificate from their local council  which said that the outbuilding complied with 
building regulations at the time it was built. So they thought LVs loss adjusters conclusion 
was wrong.
But this didnt change  LVs decision. It maintained that the outbuilding foundation wasnt  built 
to a correct depth  and therefore didnt comply  with building  guidelines.  As Mr and Mrs D 
remained unhappy they brought their complaint to this service  for consideration. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He said he 
didnt think LV had considered the claim fairly  because it relied  on guidelines  rather than 
building regulations applicable at the time of construction  to determine whether the 
outbuilding suffered damage because of inadequate  construction of the foundations.  
He was more  persuaded  by the certificate Mr and Mrs D provided from the local council  that 
said the outbuilding met building regulations at the time. So he recommended that LV should 
reconsider the claim and pay Mr and Mrs D £150  for the trouble  and upset caused  to them.  
Mr and Mrs D agreed,  but LV didnt. It maintained  its position  that the foundation depths of 
the outbuilding didnt meet the standards of good building  practice or building guidelines.  It 
also said a photograph taken of the outbuilding in 2008 showed  there  had already been  
substantial structural movement which is due to inadequate construction  and defective 
design. 
And I set out my reasoning as follows:-
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There is no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ds policy covers damage caused  by subsidence and 
heave. But the policy excludes:  
Ref: DRN26451462damage caused by poor workmanship, poor design or faulty material,  including  
inadequate construction of foundations;  
damage caused by the failure  to follow good  building practice at the time of design  or 
construction 
 
LVs appointed loss adjustor said that the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Ds property is 
consistent with subsidence, but subsidence was as a result of inadequate construction 
because the foundations did not comply with building guidelines when  it was built. 
LV has relied  on trial hole reports which confirm the tree root depths and foundation depths. 
It said trial hole investigations  revealed  live vegetation roots  to the underside of the 
foundation and to the full depth of the bore hole which was three metres. It said this 
confirmed that the cause  of subsidence  is root induced clay shrinkage because the roots 
extract the moisture causing movement to occur. 
The loss adjustor also said the outbuilding  foundations didnt comply with building  guidelines. 
But, I dont think its fair for LV to rely on guidelines  in order  to determine whether Mr and 
Mrs Ds outbuilding was of poor design  or workmanship.  
Building regulations  are the requirements that need to be complied with when a builder  is 
designing and constructing a building. The guidelines LV relied on are only guidelines and 
not law. Generally, a builder would use these  guidelines  when  constructing  a new build 
property in order to meet the criteria of a building warranty from the guidelines provider. So I 
dont think it was fair for LV to rely on these guidelines to decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
Mr and Mrs D provided a copy  of a certificate  they received from the local council when they 
purchased their home in 2006.  So I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs D wouldve been  under 
the impression  the outbuilding was structurally sound when they bought the property. 
LV has argued  that the certificate from the council isnt conclusive.  But I disagree. Im 
satisfied this document endorses that the outbuilding  was inspected and met building  
regulations at the time it was constructed.  For ease, I will now refer to the document as 
follows: 
3 DEPOSIT OF PARTICULARS 
Full plans  were deposited under the Building  Regulations made under Section 1(3) of the 
Building Act 1984  on: 9th January 2003  
5 COMPLIANCE WITH THE BUILDING REGULATIONS
It is hereby certified that the building works  described above have been  inspected  and so far 
as the authority has been able to ascertain  after taking all reasonable steps in that behalf, 
the relevant requirements of Schedule 1 of the Building Regulations are satisfied. 
I accept that just because a policyholder  isnt reasonably aware of a pre-existing issue  
should mean the insurer is duty bound to accept the claim. If there  is an exclusion that 
applies then its fair for an insurer to rely on this to decline the claim. 
But Im not in agreement that LV acted fairly by relying on the exclusions set out above to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim. Im more persuaded that the outbuilding did comply  with 
building regulations at the time of construction. So, I dont  think  its acted fairly in this case by 
Ref: DRN26451463declining the claim due to poor workmanship or failure to follow good industry practice. And it 
shouldnt rely on the building  guidelines  in order to decline  Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
LVs loss adjustor  said that roots were found to the full depth of the bore hole which  was 
three metres. The loss adjustor also said the foundations of the outbuilding shouldve been  
designed to 3.3 metres  deep to comply  with building guidelines. 
But given roots were  present at three metres, and LV has said that the clay soil is prone to 
shrinkage; its not unreasonable to suggest that had the foundations  of outbuilding been 
designed to 3.3 metres,  subsidence wouldnt have occurred. 
I dont think LV has demonstrated that poor workmanship  or the depth of the foundations is 
material to the loss. I say this because LV has said vegetation is the cause and clay soil is 
prone to shrinkage, meaning its more likely than not the outbuilding wouldve suffered 
subsidence in any event. So I dont agree the exclusions were fairly applied.  
Therefore, as Im satisfied  the outbuilding met building  regulations at the time of 
construction; I dont  think LV has acted fairly by declining the claim due to poor workmanship 
or a failure to follow  best practice.  The exclusions are immaterial to the loss, and it shouldnt  
rely on building guidelines as these  wouldnt have been taken into account by the builder 
because they wouldnt have been  required to meet them  or even consider them. 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve  experience a level of trouble and upset beyond whats reasonably  
expected when making any insurance claim, given I consider it was unfairly  declined.  Ive 
considered this and Im in agreement that £150  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D have accepted this so I wont be asking LV to increase its offer.  
replies to the provisional findings 
Mr and Mrs D responded  to say they agreed with my provisional decision.  LV said it didnt  
have anything further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and without further 
information to consider,  I see no reason  to reach  a different outcome to that in provisional 
decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company 
Limited to: 
pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim  subject to the terms and conditions  of the policy,  including  
any excess and/or policy  limit; and
pay Mr and Mrs D £150 for the trouble and upset  caused for unfairly declining  the 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Ref: DRN26451464Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2645146