K820x#14Complaint
Mr O has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to 
protect his money  when  he mistakenly sent a £500  payment  to the wrong person.
Background
On 10 April 2019, Mr O attempted to transfer  £500  to a third party  account,  but accidentally  
chose the wrong  payee. As a result, the payment went to someone  else.
Mr O realised his error on the same  day and spoke to NatWest  to get the money back. He 
was advised to wait 24 hours just in case the payment was rejected and returned. That didnt 
happen, so Mr O spoke  to NatWest again  and the bank submitted a Credit Payment 
Recovery (CPR) request.
Unfortunately, NatWest submitted the CPR request for £2,000, rather than the correct 
amount of £500.  They spotted this mistake  on 12 April 2019  and submitted the correct  
request at this time. They also informed Mr O of the problem.
On the same  day, Mr O logged a complaint with NatWest, as he believed  the bank owed him 
a duty of care and were not taking  sufficient steps  to protect  him or his money.
The unintended recipient of Mr Os money  was sent a letter by their bank informing them of 
the situation. The letter said if they disputed the return of the money, they should contact 
their bank. Otherwise, the money  would be returned to Mr O within 15 working days.  Its not 
clear when this letter  was sent,  but it seems reasonable to assume  it was sent within a few 
days of the bank in question  receiving  NatWests CPR request.
Mr O insists that the funds  were  only returned  to him after he contacted the recipient.
The money was returned to Mr Os account on 10 May 2019,  20 working days  from when the 
request was sent by NatWest.
He also said that when speaking with NatWest  about this over the phone, they were  rude 
and unhelpful.
NatWest confirmed in their response to Mr Os complaint that getting the money back was 
not a guarantee, but that it was returned within the timescales for doing  so. However, they 
also acknowledged that they made a mistake  with the initial  CPR  request, and so offered
Mr O £20 in Amazon vouchers to say sorry.
Mr O wasnt happy with this and so brought the complaint to us.
Ref: DRN22024192The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators.  She said the payment was returned 
in line with the time limits mentioned in the Faster Payments guidelines on payments made 
to the wrong account.
She also acknowledged that NatWest  made  a mistake with the initial request, but thought 
that the vouchers that had been  offered were fair compensation. As a result,  she didnt  
recommend any further action.
Mr O disagreed with our investigator, maintaining that the bank failed in protecting him as 
their customer. He asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its 
been passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mr Os complaint and Id like to explain why.
In his submissions to us, Mr O has said he believes NatWest shouldve checked  the 
recipients name before  allowing  the payment to go through. He believes, if they had done 
so, this situation wouldnt have happened in the first place.
Banks arent  required to look at the name of the recipient when making a payment. Thats 
because payers often choose  their own names for their payees.  Because payers can choose 
their own custom names,  looking at the payees  name wouldnt help the bank get the 
payment to the right place.
The bank is only required to make  sure that the payment is made  in line with the account  
number and sort code  the payer  selects. And so, the payer is required to make sure that 
those instructions are correct. 
Mr O selected one of his existing payees  from a list. NatWest made the payment to the 
account in question, in line with Mr Os instructions. As they did what  they were required to 
do, I cant say NatWest made an error  here.
The current  banking guidelines set out what NatWest have to do after theyre  told a payment 
has been made incorrectly. There are two key time limits which  apply in this case.
The first is that a bank  needs to request the funds  back within two working days  of being told 
of a problem.  NatWest were originally  told about the problem  on 10 April 2019 and the 
request was made properly on 12 April 2019.  As a result, they have met this requirement, 
despite the initial mistake  that was made.
The second  time limit is once a request has been made to the recipient bank, the funds 
should be returned within 20 working days,  provided the recipient doesnt dispute the return 
of the funds.
Whether this time limit can be met is, to an extent, outside of NatWests hands. I say this 
because the recipient needs to be given the chance  to review the request. They  can decide 
to agree to the refund straight  away, or wait for the funds to go back  automatically.
Ref: DRN22024193If they wait, then its up to the recipients bank how long itll be before the funds get returned. 
In this case, the recipients bank said they would wait 15 working days for a response from 
the recipient.
Its not clear if the recipient did respond, or if those 15 working days elapsed. But either  way, 
the funds were returned to Mr Os account  on 10 May 2019. This was exactly  20 working 
days from when the request  was made.
Its possible that Mr O wouldve received his money  back a day earlier if NatWest hadnt 
made a mistake with the CPR request.  But either way, Im satisfied that the second time limit 
was also met because he received his money back within the 20 working day deadline  set 
out by the relevant guidelines.
Mr O has said that the staff member he spoke  to on the phone was rude to him. Ive listened 
to the call and its clear that Mr O was frustrated because he didnt feel that he was protected 
as a customer. But I do think the advisor  on the call provided accurate information about  the 
process for recovering mistaken  payments, and they provided  this information in a clear and 
measured way. So I cant agree that NatWest were  rude to Mr O, from what Ive listened to.
I understand Mr O experienced a lot of stress  during this time, as £500 is a lot of money to 
go to the wrong  place  and be unavailable for up to 20 working days. But I cant hold NatWest 
responsible for the money going  to the wrong  place.  And once they knew about the problem, 
it was rectified within the time limits set out for issues like this.
As a result, I wont be asking NatWest to do anymore with regards  to Mr Os complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against National Westminster  
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202419