K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms D complain  that for 17 years theyve unknowingly paid for their St Andrews 
Insurance Plc home  insurance policy and that they received no correspondence about  it 
during that time. 
background
Mr G and Ms D took out home insurance  through a high street bank in September  2001 in 
respect of a new property  they were buying,. The underwriter  of the policy  was St Andrews. 
After first taking the policy out, they received no further policy correspondence. No claims 
were made. 
In 2002 the policy was re-branded. In 2018  Mr G and Ms D complained  to St Andrews that 
they had been charged  for the policy for over 16 years without their knowledge, their 
authorisation and without  receiving any documentation in all that time. They  cancelled  the 
policy in September  2018. 
St Andrews  looked  into their complaint  but didnt think  itd done anything wrong. It said that 
at the time the policy was taken out, the correspondence address was different from the risk 
address. It said it sent all correspondence to the correspondence address because  itd never 
been informed  otherwise.  It said it wasnt  uncommon  for policies to have different 
correspondence addresses to the risk address. It said there was no alert set up on its 
system that Mr G and Ms D needed to be contacted at the risk address. 
St Andrews  said that, as the policy was set to auto-renew, Mr G and Ms Ds authorisation 
to renew it each year hadnt been required. St Andrews noted that Mr G and Ms D had said 
that theyd noticed monthly  direct debits going out of their bank account  but assumed they 
were for something like a life insurance policy. 
St Andrews  said itd correctly processed  their policy.  Itd set it up with the details provided 
and had received  no amendment requests from Mr G and Ms D. 
Mr G and Ms D told St Andrews that theyd had home insurance with another insurer  for a 
number of years. St Andrews said it would refund 50% of their premiums (as should  the 
other insurer) for the time theyd been  dual insured  and it sent them  a questionnaire to send 
to their other  insurer to complete. It said that in line with ABI guidelines, it was normal to 
backdate any refund dual insurance  3 years but it had the discretion to further backdate  the 
refund providing  Mr G and Ms D could provide the necessary  proof. And St Andrews said it 
would add interest at 8% per year on the accrued amount. 
Mr G and Ms D were  unhappy with St Andrews decision. They said they wanted to know  
when the policy was taken out, where it was taken out and why itd continued without any 
authorisation. St Andrews said that it was set up in September  2001  through  a high street 
bank. As to where,  it was unable to say due to the passage of time although  it wouldnt have 
been online  as online polices werent  available that long ago. St Andrews also said the 
policy was set so it auto-renewed so it hadnt  asked them for annual authorisation to renew 
it.  
Unhappy with the outcome of St Andrews investigation, Mr G and Ms D complained to this 
service. In addition to the complaints theyd  made  to St Andrews they also told us that 
St Andrews  had annually increased  their premiums. 
Ref: DRN27916822Our adjudicator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr G 
and Ms D disagreed  with our adjudicators findings because our adjudicator  had provided no 
explanation for why St Andrews had failed to try to contact them over the 16 year period.  
They said the policy documents showed them as occupiers of the risk address so St 
Andrews always had the ability to write to them at the correct  address but it never did. They  
said theyd made it clear at the point of sale that the risk address was the same as the 
correspondence address. They said they remained unhappy about the amount of the 
premium, that they had never contacted St Andrews, had never benefitted  from the policy 
and had always had home insurance elsewhere.   
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G and Ms D, Im unable to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its reasonable to assume, (in the absence of any contemporaneous sale documentation)  
that Mr G and Ms D must have provided  St Andrews with the correspondence address it 
saved against  the policy. Indeed, I can see from St Andrews case  notes that Mr G told it that 
the correspondence address was their previous residential address. I appreciate that Mr G 
and Ms D subsequently  moved to the risk address. But having done  so, it was their 
responsibility to notify St Andrews that their correspondence address had changed. In the 
absence of any form of notification from Mr G and Ms D that it had, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for St Andrews  to continue to send documentation to the address it held on 
record for them. 
Nor can I say St Andrews  acted unfairly  by failing to try and contact Mr G and Ms D at the 
risk address  at any point  during the lifespan of the policy.  St Andrews  had no reason to 
suspect the correspondence address was no longer valid and, in the absence of any 
instruction to the contrary, it would be unfair to expect insurers  to make assumptions  about 
where policyholders  may now want correspondence sent to and start sending documents to 
other addresses. There are also data protection reasons why sending  documents to 
alternative addresses without authority from the policy holder would be inadvisable. St 
Andrews thought it was writing  to them at the correct  address and had no reason, that I can 
see, to suspect otherwise. 
I know that Mr G and Ms D have since said they made it clear at the point of sale that the 
risk address  and the correspondence address were the same, but Ive not been  provided 
with any documentary evidence that would allow me to reasonably conclude that was the 
case. 
I also appreciate that they are unhappy  that there is no documentation available from the 
sale or from the years that followed. But St Andrews isnt required to keep records  longer 
than six years so I cant say its acted unfairly by being unable to produce  documentation 
from more than six years ago. 
Ive thought about Mr G and Ms Ds complaint that they didnt authorise St Andrews to keep 
renewing the policy annually. But as the policy was set to auto-renew,  their authority was 
taken as given.  Again, theres no contemporaneous documentary  evidence available for me 
Ref: DRN27916823to review about what was agreed at the point of sale. In the absence of that, and given the 
policy was clearly set to auto-renew, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude 
St Andrews  had renewed the policy annually without first obtaining  Mr G and Ms Ds 
authority. 
I can see that Mr G and Ms D knew that a direct debit was being  taken  from their bank 
account every month. They havent explained why they assumed the payment was for life 
assurance or why they didnt investigate sooner what  it was they were paying for.  
St Andrews  has offered  to refund 50% of the premiums Mr G and Ms D paid it for the whole 
time they were dual-insured subject to them being able to provide the necessary proof. St 
Andrews also explained that if Mr G and Ms D sent the questionnaire itd provided to their 
other insurer then it should  agree to do the same in line with the ABI guidelines. St Andrews 
has said its only required by the ABI to backdate any refund 3-years,  but it would backdate  it 
as far as necessary subject to proof  that dual insurance had taken place.  And it said itll add 
interest at 8% per year on the accrued amount. St Andrews  offer goes further than its 
required to do by the ABI. That seems  more than fair to me in the circumstances and I cant  
reasonably require it to do any more. 
Mr G and Ms D raised an additional  complaint when they came to this service. They said 
their premiums were increased annually by St Andrews. If Mr G and Ms D are unhappy  
about what St Andrews  charged for their cover over the years then they must refer their 
complaint to it in the first instance. I cant look at this element of their complaint here 
because it wouldnt be fair to do so without St Andrews first having the opportunity to 
investigate and comment on it. So, Im afraid  I make  no finding within this decision about  
Mr G and Ms Ds complaint about  the price  of their policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2791682