K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 1993 and at the same time purchased a PPI policy.  In 
1996 the PPI policy  was amended to increase  the monthly benefit payable upon  making  a 
claim. Mr and Mrs S increased  the benefit  again in 2002 when the changed their mortgage  
product and made one final increase in 2008 when  they took additional borrowing against 
their mortgage.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr S was insured under the policy  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment and they paid a monthly amount for the cover. If he had made  
a successful claim, the policy  would have paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that they thought the policy  was compulsory but I think YBS made 
it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this. I say this because Ive been given 
a copy of the mortgage application from the time and I can see that there is a section for the 
PPI. In this section  there is a box to tick if you want to take out PPI. On Mr and Mrs Ss form 
the box has been ticked to confirm that the policy is required. If Mr and Mrs S didnt want  to 
take out the PPI they could have  the box in this section  blank.
Ive also been  given a copy of the separate PPI application form which was completed as a 
result of them stating they wanted PPI. The form has been completed for Mr S as the only 
insured person and also includes details of the amount of benefit required.  Mr S has signed 
the declaration  on the form to confirm he wishes to apply  for the cover and both 
Mr and Mrs S have  signed to confirm  they agree for the premium to be deducted. 
For each amendment to the policy, I have seen  a copy of an application form used to 
increase the benefit amount. And on each  form Mr Ss details have been completed and the 
amount of the benefit has been entered. The forms have been signed  to show that Mr S 
agreed to the increase. If Mr S didnt want to increase the benefit he could  have left the form 
blank.
Ref: DRN29943572So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think YBS told Mr and Mrs S that the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take it out  knowing they could refuse it if they didnt 
want it.
From what  we have been told, YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S when they 
first took out the policy in 1993 and in 2002.  This means it didnt  have to check that the policy  
was right for Mr S but it did have to check that Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed 
to decide for themselves if the policy was right for him. 
But in 2008,  when taking out additional  borrowing as a further advance to their mortgage, 
Mr and Mrs S did receive advice from YBS. This means it had to check that the PPI was right 
for Mr S, as the only insured person,   and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. Mr S has told us he 
wouldnt receive any sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work and they have said 
they didnt have any other means  with which to meet  their repayments if Mr S wasnt working 
- so it looks as though  this could have been a useful benefit to him.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI for Mr S only - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN29943573But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2994357