K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr A had two loans from Satsuma Loans between March 2018 and May 2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 20 Mar 2018 £900 12m £149.40 1 Apr 2019 26 Jun 2018
2 18 May 2018 £300 12m £49.80 1 Jun 2019 26 Jun 2018
Mr A says his expenditure exceeded  his income  during  this period and he had to continue to 
borrow to get through each month.  He says that if Satsuma Loans had carried out better 
checks it would have  seen from his credit report that his debt was increasing and the loans 
were unaffordable.
Satsuma Loans  says it asked Mr A for information  about his income and expenditure and 
checked his credit file. It says Mr As income was verified, but that its credit checks indicated 
Mr A had under-declared  his expenses.  Satsuma  Loans says it adjusted  its calculations 
accordingly, but that it found the repayments were still affordable to Mr A.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Satsuma Loans  had done enough checks and found  the repayments  were affordable based 
on the available information.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that he was reliant on high interest  loans during the 
period and borrowed elsewhere  to repay  the Satsuma Loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma Loans  was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
Mr A could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr A was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Satsuma  Loans had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr A applied  for his first loan from Satsuma Loans, he said his income  was £2,155  
and his expenditure was £1,025. As the scheduled repayments were  a small proportion of 
Mr As declared income, I find it reasonable that Satsuma Loans would have found loan 1 to 
be affordable.
But Satsuma  Loans also checked Mr As credit  file. There was nothing on there  that should 
have indicated Mr A was in financial difficulty and, although there were a number of defaults 
recorded, the last of these was three years earlier. But Satsuma Loans wasnt  satisfied Mr A 
Ref: DRN25647452had declared all his credit commitments  so it increased Mr As expenditure figure  by around 
£650. This still left him with a disposable  income  of just under £480, so I cant conclude  
Satsuma Loans  was wrong to approve loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 1 was still outstanding when Mr A applied for his second loan. This meant his 
scheduled repayments increased  to just under £200.  His declared  income  and expenditure 
was unchanged  from loan 1, but again, Satsuma Loans found it necessary to adjust his 
credit commitments  upwards  this time by around  £815. Satsuma  Loans  calculated his 
disposable income was actually £315 for loan 2, but this still made  the combined repayments  
affordable to Mr A.
I acknowledge what Mr A says about being reliant on loans throughout this period, but Im 
satisfied Satsuma Loans took that into account  when it adjusted  his expenditure figure based 
on what it saw on his credit file. I consider the checks carried  out were proportionate to the 
circumstances of both loans, so I dont find Satsuma  Loans did anything  wrong by approving 
them.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2564745