K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy that TSB Bank plc will not refund payments he made  on his debit card for 
travelling abroad after its chargeback request  was declined by the merchant.
background
TSB said in its final response that Mr A said hed booked and paid for tickets to travel 
abroad. And he was told by the merchant he didnt need a visa to enter the country  he was 
travelling to. But when  he arrived  at the airport he was refused travel  because he didnt  have 
a visa. There was also a spelling error  on the tickets. He contacted  TSB to stop the 
payments but as they were pending it couldnt  do so. Once the payments had been made he 
said he was disputing six payments totalling £1,942.78. Itd asked him for evidence hed 
been told he didnt  need a visa and although this hadnt  been  provided itd made a 
chargeback request to the merchants  bank. Another payment related to a service that was 
still available to Mr A and as there was a non-refundable cancellation clause TSB couldnt 
make a chargeback  request for this.  
TSB has also added  that the merchant has provided  a detailed response  to the chargeback  
request and declined it. The merchant highlighted a section of the confirmation email  it sent 
to Mr A which provided a website address  where he could check what documents  were 
needed to travel. Theres also nothing to indicate Mr A was told he wouldnt need a visa to 
travel to the relevant country. And it was his responsibility to ensure he had the correct  
documentation to travel. Its fair he hasnt been refunded.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Here Mr A was unable to travel  because he didnt have a valid visa. The merchant 
says it wasnt its responsibility to make sure he had one and at the time of booking 
itd sent Mr A a link to inform him of any relevant  travel documents he required. It was 
Mr As responsibility to ensure hed the correct travel documents.
We must  look at whether TSB has applied  the chargeback scheme  rules  correctly. 
Having looked  at what Mr A and the merchant have said shes  satisfied TSB has 
done so. And she cannot ask TSB to refund the money back to Mr A.
Mr A also complains  about information  given by an airline and accommodation 
booking site. But thats not something we can ask TSB to do anything  about. The 
payments were made  through the merchant  and TSB cant make a chargeback from 
the airline or take up matters with the accommodation booking  site.  
Mr A doesnt  agree.  In summary  he remains unhappy  including with the service he got from 
the merchant. He says the airline has given  him some compensation vouchers. He also told 
TSB that hed been defrauded by the accommodation booking site.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ref: DRN24328392I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.  
Here Mr A couldnt travel as he didnt have the necessary visa documentation. He says he 
was told by the merchant he didnt need  one. But theres nothing to evidence  this and the 
merchant says it didnt  tell Mr A this.
Whatever Mr A mayve  been told by the merchant it was, as the merchant says, his 
responsibility to check  what documents he needed  to travel successfully. And the merchant 
supplied a link in its confirmation email where  Mr A could go to and check what he needed.  
I think TSB acted appropriately  by submitting  the chargeback request to the merchant. Given 
what the merchant  said and the merchants  decision to decline the chargeback request, I 
dont think TSB has done anything  wrong  by refusing to refund the money Mr A paid to the 
merchant. Its acted  in line with the chargeback scheme rules.
I also dont think its TSBs  responsibility  to deal with the airline  or accommodation  booking  
site. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think TSB has done anything wrong. And I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably require it to do anything  more, including making any refund to Mr A, 
as hed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr As frustration and strength of feeling,  I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2432839