K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that when  U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  dealt  with a claim on their motor 
insurance policy, it disposed of their car despite  Mr W having said they may want  to retain it. 
Mr and Mrs W dont  think UKI offered them enough  compensation for that.
 
background
Mr and Mrs W were away on holiday when their daughter, Ms W  a named driver on the 
policy - had an accident in the car. Ms W reported it to UKI and its engineer discussed the 
claim with her. UKI decided that the car was a repairable total loss. UKIs  notes  show  that 
Ms W agreed to accept its offer of £865 as the cars  pre-accident market value. The notes  
also show that Mr and Mrs W called UKI later the same day. Mr W said hed like to see the 
car to decide  whether to have it repaired himself. UKI says due to a miscommunication with 
its salvage agent, the car was disposed  of before Mr W got the chance  to view the damage.
Mr and Mrs W were happy  with the offer UKI made  for the car, especially after UKI raised  it 
by £100 to take account of some  recent  work theyd had done  to it. But Mr W said the car 
was worth much more than its market  value to them. He said although the car was old, they 
knew its history. He said it had been well-maintained and regularly serviced. 
Mr W said a garage  he knew  had said it was likely  to be able to repair the car for much less 
that UKIs  estimated cost of repair. He said theyd wanted to repair  the car and use it for 
another couple of years,  as it was so reliable. So he thought UKI should  offer compensation 
to take account  of that. A few days later, Mr W told UKI that if theyd had the chance to put 
the car into a scrappage scheme, they could  have got £2,000 for it, regardless of condition. 
UKI offered Mr and Mrs W £500  compensation.  As they werent happy with it, they 
complained to us. One of our investigators considered their complaint. She thought  UKI had 
acted reasonably. Although Mr and Mrs W hadnt complained to us about  the cars  valuation, 
she checked that UKI had dealt with it in line with our guidance. She thought it had offered 
Mr and Mrs W fair compensation for wrongly disposing of their car. She thought  there was 
no certainty about what Mr and Mrs W would have done had it not been  disposed of.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept the investigators  view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs W have  said theyre satisfied with UKIs  settlement  offer of £965  for their car, 
and it isnt part of their complaint to us, I wont comment  further on that issue.
I dont think it was good practice  for UKIs engineer to agree the cars write-off with Ms W, as 
she was just a named  driver on the policy.  The call between the engineer and Ms W isnt 
available, so we dont to know for sure what was said. But its clear  from other  calls that 
Mr and Mrs W spoke  to UKI the same  day. Mrs W queried why UKI hadnt contacted her. 
UKI apologised for the error. In a later call to UKI one of its advisors raised the matter.  Mr W 
said it wasnt really an issue. 
Ref: DRN22986932I think whats important is that the offer for the car was fair, as Mr and Mrs W have 
acknowledged. And Mr W spoke to UKI the same  day to instruct  it not to dispose  of the car 
before they had the chance  to view it on their return from holiday. So I dont think the 
engineer having dealt  with Ms W initially made  any difference to the outcome.
The file notes show that UKI didnt intend  to dispose of the vehicle. One of its advisors 
recorded an instruction  to retain it. But something  went wrong with the salvage agents  
communication. UKI tried to put matters right by offering £500 compensation. I think  thats in 
line with the sum wed have required  UKI to pay Mr and Mrs W had it not already done so.
Mr and Mrs W think UKI should  pay more because they think  they may have got between 
£2,000 and £5,000  for the car in a scrappage scheme. UKIs engineer said the car may have 
had to be repaired before  going into such a scheme  and that theyre not always available. 
But assuming the car went into a scheme,  its not possible to say how much Mr and Mrs W 
would have got for it. And in order to use the scheme, theyd  have had to agree to buy a new 
car. Theres nothing to show that Mr and Mrs W wanted to do that. From what Mr W initially 
said to UKI, it seems more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs W would have chosen to have the 
old car repaired. Mr W said theyd planned  to keep  it for another couple  of years.   
I dont think it would  be fair to base  a higher compensation award  on what might   or might  
not - have happened. Whats beyond  doubt is that Mr and Mrs W were  shocked to find their 
instruction to retain the car hadnt  been  followed. They  were  inconvenienced  by having to 
look for another car when  that might have  been  avoided. And understandably, they were 
frustrated and disappointed by UKIs error.  But taking everything into account, I think UKIs 
offer of £500 compensation was a reasonable way to try to put that right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2298693