K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that delay by Barclays Bank Plc in removing its legal  charge  from his 
property has resulted in his new lender imposing  on him a penalty charge of £30,912. Mr P 
wants Barclays to reimburse this.
background
Mr P owns  a property upon which Barclays had a legal charge. On Friday  10 August 2018  
Mr P spoke to Barclays and said he would repay the outstanding balance on the following 
Monday, 13 August 2018. Mr P says he was assured by Barclays that the legal charge 
would be removed immediately.
The legal charge wasnt removed until 3 September 2018. Mr P complained. Barclays 
explained that its internal process  is such that it can take 14-21 working days for a mortgage 
account to be closed, including release of the legal charge. Barclays  refused to pay Mr P the 
£30,912 he was requesting.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr P brought his complaint  to us. An adjudicator  looked  at 
it but didnt think  the bank  had done anything wrong. Mr P disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
First, Ive noted Mr P has provided a number of questions which  he would like us to put to 
Barclays to be answered to his satisfaction.  But the Financial Ombudsman Service  is 
independent; we dont act either for consumers or the financial businesses theyre 
complaining about. This means that we dont take direction from the parties in a complaint 
about how we conduct our investigations.  Were we to do so, this would compromise  our 
impartiality. 
So although  Ive noted all the points  Mr P wants Barclays  to answer, I will not be asking 
Barclays to respond to these. Its up to me to determine what  the main  issues  are in a 
complaint, and to issue a decision  on those  issues. 
Ive also noted  that Mr P has said that if the complaint is not decided in his favour, any court 
proceedings against Barclays will also involve the Financial  Ombudsman Service. But I 
cannot allow threats of legal  action against me by one party to a complaint to influence me to 
decide the case in their favour if the facts and evidence do not support such a conclusion. 
The issue  about  which Mr P has complained  is that, because of delay by Barclays in 
releasing the legal charge on his property,  his new lender has imposed a penalty totalling 
£30,912.
I note from the Land Registry title entries  that there is no legal charge registered to any third 
party on Mr Ps property.  Mr P has said that, as far as he is aware,  the new lender is going 
through the formalities  of registering a legal charge. It is surprising to me that this has not 
been completed since August 2018.  But it appears the property is currently unencumbered.
Ref: DRN24820092Ive listened to the phone call between  Mr P and Barclays on 10 August 2018. Barclays  did 
not say that the legal charge would be removed immediately upon payment of the 
outstanding mortgage balance. It may be that Mr P misunderstood the position, but if he did, 
I dont think this is as a result of anything Barclays told him.
Generally, the legal principle is that financial losses claimed by one party  have to be 
reasonably foreseeable to the party which  is being asked to pay them.  There is nothing in 
the complaint  file to suggest Mr P told Barclays before he repaid the mortgage that he would  
be subject to a penalty from his new lender if the legal charge wasnt  released immediately 
by Barclays, or the way in which the penalty was to be calculated.  
I think if Barclays had been made  aware  of this it would have explained to Mr P that the 
charge wouldnt  be released immediately on receipt of payment, due to the formalities  that 
are involved  in closing  the account.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that it wasnt reasonably foreseeable to Barclays  that 
Mr P might incur an onerous penalty  if Barclays legal charge wasnt released  on the day the 
mortgage account was redeemed. 
Ive also looked  at the information Mr P has provided about the penalty he says he must pay 
to his new lender.  This comprises a letter signed by Mr P (and in the same  format as letters 
he has sent to us and to Barclays). 
The letter says (amongst  other things) that if there is any other  charge on the property for the 
duration of the loan Mr P will be liable  to pay the lender 0.1% of the Zoopla website valuation 
(or if not available,  any other reputable online valuation website) for every  day when any 
party other than the lender holds the legal charge over the property. The letter doesnt say 
who the purported  lender  is. It is signed only by Mr P and is dated 13 August 2018.  
The evidential value of this letter is negligible in terms of proving  Mr P actually owes a 
penalty of £30,912 to an unknown third party. It contains no information  that can be verified 
by making enquiries  of the purported lender. And there is no independent  evidence  that Mr P 
has suffered any actual financial loss or has to pay a penalty  of £30,912. 
In the circumstances, for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded there is any basis 
upon which it would be fair or reasonable to order Barclays to pay Mr P the £30,912 penalty 
he says he owes his new lender.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482009