K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained that Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited (Cabot)  failed to 
supply paperwork when  requested relating to a debt. Mrs O is also unhappy with the steps 
Cabot has taken to recover this debt and any costs  and charges it has added.
Mrs O wants Cabot to cease  collection activity  until they can prove how much is due and 
write off or reduce  any remaining balance. She also wants £100 compensation. 
background
Cabot bought a debt that it says Mrs O owed to a financial business. 
Mrs O says that Cabot did several things  wrong  since taking over the debt. Shes  also said 
the card should  never have been given to her in the first place, given  her circumstances. 
Mrs O has asked Cabot for a number of documents including the credit  agreement.  
While the credit agreement isnt available, Cabot said it can still ask Mrs O to pay back the 
debt. It also said the original creditor was responsible for the decision to lend to Mrs O in the 
first place, so she should contact them  with any complaint about  the lending  decision. 
Mrs O wasnt  happy with Cabots response to her complaint and referred  her complaint to 
our service.
In summary,  our investigator found  that Cabot hadnt done  anything  wrong. Mrs O didnt 
accept our investigators findings.  She said that as Cabot were unable  to get a copy  of the 
credit agreement the debt is unenforceable, and that Cabot should  cease collection. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs O has raised  several complaint points and Ill address them below under different 
headings. 
the initial decision to lend to Mrs O.
Mrs O has complained that the creditor shouldnt have lent to her in the first place. But the 
lending decision wasnt made by Cabot and isnt their responsibility. Therefore,  I cant  
consider the lending decision  as part of this complaint against Cabot. 
If Mrs O is unhappy with the lending decision, she has the option to complain  to the lender. 
But as the event took place several years  ago, she should be aware that there are time limits 
that usually apply for bringing complaints. 
the debt owed 
Ref: DRN28591812Nothing Mrs O has said leads me to conclude Cabot  should have thought  there was a 
problem with the debt when it bought it. I accept that in this case there isnt a great  deal of 
paperwork related  to the account or debt but in situations like this, Ive to decide what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened  based on the available  evidence. It seems more  
likely than not that the debt owed was accurate.
Ive seen a statement of the account that suggests Mrs O continued  to make regular 
payments from 2013 until 2017. This suggests  that she accepted  she owed a debt.  
Although Mrs O has also complained about charges and interest thatve been added to the 
debt, I havent  seen evidence that Cabot have increased the debt or added any interest or 
charges since theyve bought the debt.
the enforceability of the debt and the steps  Cabot has taken to recover  it 
Mrs O requested that Cabot provide her with a copy of her original credit agreement. Cabot 
have been unable to obtain a copy of it. Whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is a 
matter for a court to decide  thats not something I have the power  to determine or will be 
commenting further on in my decision.  
It also doesnt seem that Cabot have tried to mislead Mrs O about not having a copy of her 
credit agreement when  shes enquired.  But as Im reasonably satisfied that Mrs O owes  the 
debt, and Ive seen evidence that a notice of assignment was issued in July 2013, I dont 
think Cabot has treated her unfairly in asking her to repay it. 
I also havent seen  evidence that Cabot  have been aggressive in trying  to recover the debt. 
For example, a screenshot of Cabots automated dialler system  doesnt show  its been  used 
to contact Mrs O.
Ive also noted  that Mrs O hasnt provided  any supporting evidence such as letters or other  
correspondence shes received to support what shes  said about the way Cabot have tried to 
recover this debt. 
other information Mrs O requested from Cabot
Mrs O is also unhappy that some other information she requested wasnt provided to her - in 
particular, a copy of the deed of assignment  and information on how much Cabot paid for 
her debt. 
Cabot has said that this is sensitive information between  them  and the creditor  that they 
arent obliged  to provide it. I agree and I dont think that theyve acted  unreasonably.
conclusion
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I think that Cabot have treated Mrs O fairly and 
reasonably since  taking over the debt. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or
Ref: DRN28591813reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2859181