K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued his car after it was 
recorded as a total loss under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ss car was recorded  as a total loss after it was damaged in a collision. Admiral said it 
consulted three motor guides to find the pre-accident market value for the car.  These 
showed a range of values between £3,960 and £5,680. 
After Mr S challenged the valuation, Admiral appointed a third party motor engineer to 
assess the pre-accident  value of his car. It valued  the car at £6,585, after deducting £550 for 
pre-accident damage  which  affected  its overall condition.  Admiral offered Mr S £6,735,  after 
only deducting £400 for the pre-accident damage.
Mr S says that the valuation of his car was too low because  its based on price  he could get 
if he had sold his car before the accident  and not on the cost of a replacement. He says low 
numbers of his car were  built and so it is a specialist car, which was appreciating in value, 
not decreasing.  So, he thinks Admiral should  increase its offer to £7,500.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. He thought  it had arrived  at the valuation following 
our usual approach  of consulting the motor-trade  guides  and Admiral  had offered Mr S a fair 
value for his car.
Mr S disagrees and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr S but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  for much the same reasons.
I can understand that Mr S is disappointed with Admirals offer. I see he thinks an 
assessment of the market value of his car should  include how much  hell now have  to pay to 
replace it. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss insurance contract offered the pre-accident 
market valuation of his car in the case of total loss (less any policy  excesses). The 
investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations.  We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is within  a reasonable range 
(given that this isnt an exact science).
Our investigator thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. Ive looked at how he came  
to this conclusion.  I can see that he consulted the trade guides,  looking  for cars of the same 
make, model, condition,  specification and mileage as Mr Ss. They showed that a fair value 
for Mr Ss car would  be between £5,450 and £5,680. We also took account  of the engineers  
report.
I know Mr S doesnt agree  with the engineers report because part of his research  included  
the advertised price  of eight similar cars for sale, ranging between  £3,995  and £7,650. In 
Ref: DRN21749382particular, Mr S doubts the credentials of the example for sale at £3,995, which  has in turn 
brought down  the average advertised  price to £6,280. But the engineer also took account of 
Mr Ss research  of similar cars for sale, including four examples ranging between £8,995 and 
£6,495 with an average advertised price of £7,990.  So, in the same way that including  an 
example for sale at £3,995 brought  the average price  down,  including  an example for sale at 
£8,995 brought the average price up. 
The engineer met Mr S in the middle in valuing his car at £7,135 before the (downwards) 
adjustment for the condition  of his car  which Admiral reduced from £550 to £400. Ive seen 
nothing to show that the engineers findings  are fundamentally flawed. And I think his 
approach to valuing Mr Ss car was fair in the circumstances.
I know Mr S has said his car was a specialist  car but his insurance wasnt a specialist or 
classic car policy   and this is important because insurers typically  require classic car 
policyholders to agree on a valuation when the policy is taken  out and dont rely on pre-
accident market  valuations.
Based on the engineers report,  Admiral offered Mr S £6,735. This is significantly above the 
uppermost value  produced by the trade guides. Weve checked and verified the estimates 
the guides produced. In all the circumstances,  I think Admiral  has made a fair offer to settle 
Mr Ss claim.
With all of the above in mind,  Im not persuaded  Admiral needs to do anything  more here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2174938