K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited sold them 
an unsuitable investment plan in 1993, which included unnecessary  life insurance.
background 
Their representative  also said that they didnt want to take any risk with their money; this was 
a complex product that they didnt understand; and they shouldnt  have  been  recommended  
an inflexible 10 year commitment.
Sun Life largely rejected their complaint but said the plan included  slightly more  life cover 
than was needed to make the plan qualify for tax-free returns. It therefore calculated  how 
much their policy would  have been worth on maturity if the plan had only included  the 
minimum necessary life cover, and with the extra premium amounts invested instead. It then 
added interest to this sum and offered Mr and Mrs H this amount  in compensation. 
An investigator at this service broadly agreed with Sun Lifes  assessment and felt its offer 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed, and said:
Sun Life accepted  they had no need for life cover so even a minimal amount to make  
the policy qualifying  was an unnecessary drag on investment  returns
Theres no justification for Mr and Mrs Hs recorded attitude to risk of three  out of five 
(on a risk scale)  or how this came about.  In fact, they did not want to take any risk 
with their money; they just wanted to make some regular savings
The advisor failed  to spell out the investment risks, the cost of life cover  or the high 
charges
Investing in the default management  fund strongly suggests it was the advisor who 
made this decision  and not Mr and Mrs H.
This was a complex product  with technically-challenging information and it is unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs H, as inexperienced investors, would have understood it
Given their short-term  aspirations and lifestyle changes,  this was not a suitable  
recommendation
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Firstly,  I think it is important to clarify that 
my role is to decide whether a business  clearly did something wrong,  not whether they might 
have done something different. In this case, that means considering whether this was an 
unsuitable or inappropriate recommendation, not whether another  recommendation might 
have been equally  suitable.
In this context, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to say that this was clearly  a poor 
recommendation (leaving  aside  the level of life cover).
Mr and Mrs H had a substantial monthly  disposable  income and the recommended premium  
was just £20. They  retained the policy for the full 10 years, so there is no evidence that it 
proved unaffordable.
Ref: DRN28231072While Mr and Mrs Hs representative says they had no investment experience,  the evidence 
suggests otherwise.  Equally, while it is alleged that they didnt want  to take any risk with their 
money I think the paperwork makes very clear that this plan was a risk-based  proposition 
and completely different from a bank deposit  account. So I think it is difficult  to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs H were unaware  of the general risk posed by this investment - whether or not 
they fully understood the nature of the product itself.
Overall, I am satisfied the documentation  provided  them with sufficient information to decide, 
broadly-speaking, whether they wanted  to commit to a 10 year, risk-based  savings plan. 
That said,  I think it is impossible to safely reach a conclusion about whether they fully 
understood this product in detail,  or realised  what a risk rating of three out of five might 
mean. It may well be that these were not fully discussed or glossed over.
I have therefore  considered  whether  the product was obviously unsuitable. As Ive said,  the 
payments represented  a very small monthly portion of Mr and Mrs Hs excess  income, the 
terms of the plan were  clearly outlined and given the contributions  were  via regular 
payments (rather than a single lump sum), I dont believe the managed  fund was necessarily 
unsuitable.  If Mr and Mrs H had been recommended  to pay for just the minimum sum 
assured necessary, the monthly  cost would have been very small in return  for a potentially 
valuable benefit.  So I dont think this was clearly  an inappropriate recommendation.
Whether the charges were high is a matter of opinion, but Ive seen no evidence that these 
were hidden so I think Mr and Mrs H were  in a reasonable position to decide  whether they 
were prepared to pay these in order to make  small regular payments into a medium term 
tax-efficient savings plan.
my final decision
On the basis that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited is still prepared  to 
pay the compensation outlined in its Final Response letter,  I do not uphold this complaint. If 
Sun Life withdrew this offer, Mr and Mrs H would be entitled to bring this issue back to this 
service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823107