K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Sainsburys Bank  Plc didnt treat her fairly when she was going  through  
a very stressful time which impacted her financially.  She says that arrears built up on her 
credit card account when  they shouldnt have and that Sainsburys  harassed her with letters 
demanding payments and gave her contradictory  information about whether payments 
needed to be made  or not. She says she was blocked  from making payments to her 
account.
background
In May 2018  Ms S contacted Sainsburys as she was experiencing financial difficulties due to 
her employment situation and her health.  Because of this she says she was unable  to make 
the required payments  on her credit card.
Sainsburys completed an assessment of Ms S income and expenditure and it transpired 
that Ms S expenditure exceeded her income  and she was unable  to make payments to the 
account. So, Sainsburys agreed to freeze the interest and charges  on Ms S account. 
Sainsburys termed this as a Zero  offer.  
Ms S was under the impression that she didnt  need  to make the minimum monthly 
payments and says she wasnt  told that arrears would build up on her account if she didnt 
meet the repayments. However,  as the monthly minimum payment on the account  remained 
due and Ms S didnt  make these payments, arrears continued to build on the account. Ms S 
made one payment of £50 between June  2018  and December 2018.
Ms S feels she was given  inconsistent information about whether payments were  due on the 
account and that the arrears building up on the account left her in an even worse financial 
situation than what she was in when she first contacted Sainsburys. She says she was not 
told that arrears would build up if she didnt make  the payments. She felt harassed  by the 
letters that Sainsburys sent her about  the arrears  when  she was going through  a very 
difficult time. She says she tried to make some  payments but was unable to do so as she 
was effectively blocked from making payments  due to issues with the online banking/mobile 
banking app, the direct debit  being  cancelled, payments not being taken on the phone  and a 
lack of clarity  about which address  she could  send cheques  to.
Ms S wants Sainsburys to remove the arrears on her account  and compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Our investigator considered Ms S complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. Ms S didnt 
agree with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ms S complaint. I fully appreciate that Ms S will be 
disappointed by this outcome, but it is of course up to Ms S whether she chooses  to accept 
or reject my decision. I will now go on to explain why Ive reached this decision.
financial difficulties and accumulation  of arrears
Ref: DRN21428312The complaint appears  to stem from a misunderstanding about what was discussed  when 
Ms S first called Sainsburys  on 9 May 2018 to make them  aware of her financial difficulties. 
Ms S was under the impression that during this call Sainsburys had agreed  to freeze the 
interest and charges on her account and that she didnt need to make  any payments towards 
the account until she was in a position  to do so. She did not think  that arrears would build up 
and says she wasnt advised this could happen.  Sainsburys  say that they did agree to 
freeze the interest  on Ms S account and also agreed not to apply charges, but they never 
agreed that the minimum payment  would not be due (although  they were aware that she 
couldnt meet the repayments) or that arrears would not build  up. They say this isnt an 
option their customer support team managing  the account would be able to agree to.
Unfortunately Sainsburys  no longer have a call recording  from 9 May 2018  so I cant  say for 
certain what was discussed. However,  Ive seen the call note from 9 May 2018. This is fairly 
detailed. It shows that Ms S contacted Sainsburys  to discuss her financial  situation and that 
the person Ms S spoke  to went through Ms S income and expenditure and there was deficit  
as the expenditure exceeded the income.  It appears  Ms S was advised as to: 0 offer, the 
impact of arrears on her credit file, token payments, freezing charges and interest  and not to 
use her card. It also appears she was advised of the default and recoveries process. Ms S 
account was then routed to a specialist  team.
Ms S contacted Sainsburys again in September 2018. Sainsburys have provided us with a 
call recording  from 29 September 2018.  During this call Ms S explained  that she was now 
working more and was able to make some payments.  The person she spoke to went  through 
Ms S income and expenditure and it transpired  that Ms S would have had sufficient 
affordability to be able to clear the arrears (around £280) the following month. Although  Ms S 
initially agreed to make a payment of £100,  when the representative started to explain about 
the arrears, Ms S said that the arrears shouldnt have built up and that she was advised in 
May 2018 that she wouldnt  need to make  a payment. However, she says she then received 
letters demanding payments and that when she did contact them on receiving these letters  
she was again  told that an arrangement was in place and that she didnt need to make 
payments. So she says she was given contradictory  information by Sainsburys. 
It is clear from this call that Ms S was confused about what was expected  of her and felt that 
Sainsburys had treated her unfairly. What I have to go on and consider is whether this 
confusion was caused by Sainsburys giving her contradictory/unclear information and 
whether Sainsburys  treated  her fairly.
In accordance with industry guidance, businesses  are under a duty to deal with consumers 
positively and sympathetically when they are in financial difficulties. So first of all Ive 
considered whether Sainsburys  did what they should have done once they became aware  
Ms S was in financial difficulties and secondly whether they explained  to Ms S that the 
minimum payments would still be due and the effect  non-payment/reduced payments would 
have in terms of arrears.
I think Sainsburys did do what would have been expected of them when Ms S informed  
them in May 2018 that she was in financial difficulties. They went  through Ms S income and 
expenditure and agreed to freeze interest and charges on Ms S account.  I appreciate  that 
Ms S was unclear whether the interest had in fact been frozen.  Ive seen Ms S account 
statements from this time and I note that interest wasnt applied  to the account and I also 
note that where  charges were  applied to Ms S account during this time, these were  
Ref: DRN21428313refunded with the exception of one of the charges which Sainsbury has also subsequently 
agreed to refund.
Sainsburys also appear to have advised  Ms S not to use the card so as not to increase the 
amount due. However, the existing balance  on the account remained due which meant  that 
the minimum monthly payment on the account was payable. As Ms S didnt pay this, the 
arrears built up. I appreciate why a payment plan couldnt be agreed at this stage given      
Ms S expenditure far exceeded her income. 
In September  2018, the representative confirmed that the interest and charges on the 
account would remain frozen until the arrears were paid off. And even though Ms S financial 
situation had improved, they didnt  expect Ms S to pay all of the arrears off in one go. 
So I think Sainsburys did deal with Ms S situation positively and sympathetically and I 
wouldnt have expected them to do more at this stage. I wouldnt expect them  to now remove 
the arrears given that the payments were legitimately owed to Sainsburys under the terms 
and conditions. The minimum payment was money due to repay the balance from the 
original agreement  and it isnt an additional charge  that Sainsburys has applied.
However, I would  expect Sainsburys to allow Ms S reasonable time and opportunity to repay 
the arrears which  it appears they have done  while at the same  time keeping the interest 
suspended and not applying charges.
I will now move  on to consider what Ms S says about being given inconsistent information  
about whether  payments were due or not and that Sainsburys didnt tell her that arrears 
could accumulate.
I have no reason to think that the call note of May 2018 doesnt reflect  the conversation that 
took place between Ms S and Sainsburys customer support team.  And given what  the call 
note says about advising Ms S as to the impact of arrears on the credit  file, token payments 
and the default/recovery process, I think Sainsburys did explain to Ms S that although they 
understood Ms S couldnt meet the repayments (due to the deficit),  that the minimum 
monthly payments  were still due and that arrears would accumulate if payments were not 
made and that ultimately this could result  in a default if payment was received. They wouldnt 
have needed to explain this if they had advised  Ms S that the minimum monthly  payments  
were not still due. 
Ms S said that when  she contacted Sainsburys in response to the demands for payments, 
she was told that they were aware of her situation and previous arrangement  and that she 
didnt need to make the repayments. However,  although the representative may have told 
her that they understood her situation  and that she wasnt in a position to make  repayments, 
I think its unlikely that they would have  told Ms S that the payments were not due or that 
arrears would not build up. And I think Ms S was aware that payments were still due 
because she says that she tried to make the payments  but had issues making payments.  
She also accepts this during the September  2018 call.
So while I appreciate Ms S did not fully understand the consequences of not meeting the 
monthly minimum repayment, I dont think this is because Sainsburys gave her unclear or 
contradictory information. 
issues making payments
Ref: DRN21428314Ms S has said that she did try making  some  payments but was unable to do so because  
there were issues making payments to Sainsburys  using  the mobile app, online banking as 
well as making payments  on the phone and that her direct debit had been cancelled.  As 
already mentioned, Ms S feels she was effectively blocked from making payments.
The advisor in the call in September 2018  explained  that the direct debit had been cancelled  
as Ms S had advised in May 2018  that she was unable to make payments. Again this was 
the reasonable thing for Sainsburys to have done  given that Ms S expenditure exceeded 
her income.
With regards to the online banking/mobile app, Ms S says that she couldnt make payments 
to Sainsburys as the card details  didnt appear. Sainsburys have said that they have looked 
into any technical issues but that they havent  found  anything on their side which would have 
prevented Ms S from making  a payment. They  did send Ms S a letter which  referred to a 
technical issue. However, this was to do with issues relating to how the account was being  
reported to credit reference agencies and didnt have anything  to do with technical difficulties 
in making payments in the first place. 
So while I appreciate Ms S may have  tried to make payments using her online 
banking/mobile banking app, I cant say that the reason the payment didnt go through  was 
because of something Sainsburys did wrong.  I understand that Ms S has or will be raising a 
complaint with the bank responsible for providing the mobile banking app to her.
With regards to making a payment on the phone,  I note that when she called Sainsburys in 
September 2018, the representative did ask Ms S if she could make  a payment, it appears 
this could have  been made on the phone at that time. Ms S initially  agreed to make a 
payment of £100.  However, when the representative then again tried to explain the impact  of 
arrears Ms S became upset. She then said that she would  make a payment of £60 a month 
until she was in a position to clear  the rest and she said she would send this by cheque.    
Ms S did send a cheque   but this was some two months later and for £50 rather than £60. 
I note that Ms S would also have had the option of setting up a standing order. Sainsburys 
account details  were provided  on the statements.
So I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude that Sainsburys  prevented  Ms S from 
making payments.
harassment
Ms S has said that Sainsburys sent her letters harassing her demanding payment even 
though they were aware of what she was going  through and had agreed that she didnt need 
to make payments.  However, as set out above, the minimum payment would still have been 
due and I think Sainsburys  had warned  her about arrears building  up on her account and 
the impact this could  have  on her credit file.
Ive seen a copy  of the notice of arrears letter Sainsburys sent Ms S. Although  Ms S may 
have been upset by this, I dont think Sainsburys were  wrong  to send  this letter,  particularly 
given that they are required  by law to send it. Other than this Sainsburys sent Ms S monthly 
statements and these  set out that Ms S account was in arrears. The information provided 
was correct and also asked Ms S to get in touch if she was having  difficulties  meeting  the 
minimum repayment. 
Ref: DRN21428315So I dont  think Sainsburys was wrong to send them the letters/statements that they did.
Ms S has also complained about how she was spoken to by Sainsburys staff on the phone. I 
have heard the phone  call in September 2018  and I cant say that the representative  spoke 
to Ms S inappropriately  during this call. I also note Ms S suggests  that we or Sainsburys 
should have advised her regarding carrying out a balance transfer. However, as our 
investigator has correctly explained, we are not here to provide  financial  advice  to 
consumers. Also Sainsburys  were  not under a duty to advise Ms S to carry out a balance  
transfer.
Therefore while  I am sorry to hear that Ms S has been going  through  a very difficult  time with 
her health  and work situation, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think  
Sainsburys acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  her.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms S complaint against  Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2142831