K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
March 2004. Mrs A says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One most likely made it clear that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out. Capital One has been  unable to provide a copy of the 
sales call recording,  but as it took place  many years ago this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable. However, based  on what I do know about  the sales scripts and sales  
processes Capital One used  around the time of the sale, I think  its more likely than 
not, that the optional nature of the PPI was made clear  to Mrs A. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs A got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, including  
what she has said about her employers sick pay policy,  it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI cover.  So I think it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
All of which means  Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because Capital  One didnt 
tell Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what she has said about having 
enough sick pay to be able to repay her credit card if she was unable to work due to 
sickness. However Mrs A was, understandably, unable to confirm how long shed receive 
sick pay for from her employer. But even if Mrs A wouldve received some  sick pay from her 
employer, having  the PPI policy meant that shed be able to use her sick pay to pay for 
outgoings other than her credit card, whilst she was unable to work   so I think  the PPI 
couldve still been of use to her. So these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN29754342my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2975434