K821x#15Complaint
Mr R is being represented by solicitors. Hes complaining about Best Practice IFA Group 
Limited (Best Practice) because he says he was given unsuitable advice to switch pension 
benefits into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) and place the money  in unregulated 
investments.
Mrs R received similar advice around  the same  time. Ive issued a separate decision on her 
case, but Ive referred to some  of the evidence on our file for her complaint  in responding to 
Mr Rs.
Background 
Mr R says he met Mr H, the adviser who he says dealt with his pension and investments, 
after he was introduced to his wife at the end of 2011 by a member  of her family who hed 
previously advised.
 
Mr Rs representative says Mr H held himself  out as a regulated adviser  and agent  for Future  
Financial IFA Group Ltd (Future Financial).  It says Mr H recommended  Mr R switch some  of 
his pension benefits to a SIPP and invest in alternative investments, as hed already 
recommended Mrs R do with her own pension benefits. The documentation  from the time 
also refers to somebody called Mr G, who was an agent of Future Financial. As 
Future Financial was an appointed representative  (AR) of Best Practice, Mr R believes Best 
Practice is responsible  for his losses.
Following discussions with Mr H, Mr R says he was advised to switch  the benefits in a Free-
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) with Standard Life into a SIPP with The 
Lifetime SIPP Company  (Lifetime), administered by Hartley-SAS (Hartley). According  to the 
SIPP transaction history, it was established  on 1 June 2012  and £16,244  was received from
Mr Rs Standard Life pension on 15 June 2012.  Shortly afterwards, most of this money  was 
placed in unregulated investment schemes  with Invest US Ltd (£10,000) and Ukrainian 
Income Developments Ltd (£5,000).  
Mr R did receive  some  income payments from the investments, but they havent  generated 
the ongoing returns he was expecting or repaid his capital in full. According to his 
representative, the risks of the investments werent properly explained and he wouldnt have 
proceeded if they had been. 
Best Practice didnt accept Mr Rs complaint. In its defence it has said:
Mr H was never authorised as its representative  and it considers any alleged advice 
provided while he purported to be associated with Future  Financial or Best Practice 
to be a fraudulent  act.
While  he wasnt  a representative  of Future  Financial, the Financial Services Register  
shows Mr H did represent other businesses listed at the same address.
It has no record of Mr R as one of its clients.
It hasnt been  proven  Mr G gave  advice. But it didnt authorise him to advise on 
investments and pensions, including pension  transfers, so it cant be held responsible 
for his alleged actions  in any event.  
Ref: DRN20493632Future Financial ceased to be its appointed  representative in June 2012 and it cant 
be held responsible for anything done after that.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought we could consider this 
complaint and it should be upheld.  An extract  is attached and forms part of this decision.
Best Practice contacted  us to say that it remained disappointed with my conclusions but 
doesnt feel theres anything it can meaningfully add. But, for the sake of completeness, it 
said it has previously spoken to Mr G about  this complaint and he denied  advising Mr R. It 
also said it understands the fact find was dated while Mr and Mrs R were out of the country, 
but notes it was unsigned and that it isnt one of the standard documents used by its firms at 
the time.
Mr R accepted the outcome set out in my provisional decision, but his representative made  
some comments about how the redress is to be paid.  It said that, based on its experience,  it 
may be difficult to close the SIPP if Best Practice is unwilling  to take assignment of the 
illiquid investments  and the SIPP provider is unwilling to close the SIPP  while they remain  
within it. It notes Ive allowed for this by awarding a sum to cover future SIPP  fees. But 
nevertheless, it says Mr R no longer wants anything to do with the SIPP and would  prefer  
the compensation amount  is paid directly to him (via his representative) as a lump  sum.
In addition, Mr Rs representative has noted hes been advised by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) that payment of compensation into the SIPP would be classed as an 
unauthorised payment.  Its also pointed out that Mr R has agreed to pay a percentage of the 
compensation to his representative to cover  its fees and he doesnt  have  ready access  to 
another lump  sum to cover this. The IFA has also said any subsequent payment out of the 
pension to pay the fees would conflict with his existing protection.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
I note Best Practice says Mr G denies having  advised Mr R. But in the absence of further  
comments from him or any other supporting evidence, it remains  my view that he did advise 
him for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision. With regard to the fact find, this 
does seem to include  Mr and Mrs Rs signatures on the date Ive referred to so its not clear 
why Best Practice has said it wasnt signed. And while  it might  not have  been  the standard 
document used  by its ARs at the time, I dont think thats sufficient to outweigh the other  
evidence Ive referred to that I think shows Mr G did advise  Mr R and was acting  as Best 
Practices AR when he did so.
When awarding compensation,  my principal aim is to return  Mr R (as close  as possible) to 
the position hed now be in but for the inappropriate advice he received. It remains my view 
the money he has lost would otherwise  have  been in his pension and thats where  it should  
be paid if this can be done. I understand the potential issue  with closing the SIPP  while it 
contains illiquid investments, but I think  the solution  Ive proposed   which  includes Best 
Practice paying SIPP fees for the next five years  adequately takes account of this.
Ref: DRN20493633This notwithstanding, it may be the case that its not possible to pay the compensation into 
Mr Rs pension and this shouldnt happen  if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. I previously set out how compensation can be paid direct to Mr R in such  a 
situation.
 
The issue  of how Mr R pays his representative  is a matter between them that they 
presumably discussed before it began to act for him. Its not something that has an impact 
on what Best Practice needs  to do to return him to the correct  financial position.  
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr R accepts my decision, Best Practice IFA Group Limited must pay compensation 
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision. It should provide him with 
details of its calculations  in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20493634Extract from provisional decision:
Background
. . . .
Once the complaint  was referred  to us, I considered whether it fell within our jurisdiction to investigate, 
particularly whether  Best Practice could  be held responsible for the actions of its AR. I concluded  that 
we could consider the complaint.
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  He 
felt Mr R received  unsuitable  advice  to switch his pension  benefits  to a SIPP to fund unregulated  
investments and recommended compensation  be paid to return him (as close as possible) to the 
position hed now be in but for that advice.
Mr Rs representative contacted us to say that he accepted  the investigators  findings but would  prefer  
the proposed  compensation was paid to him directly  rather than into his pension.
Best Practice  didnt accept the investigators  assessment and its legal representative sent a response 
covering both Mr and Mrs Rs complaints. It strongly disagrees with my decision that the complaint  
falls within our jurisdiction.  It also maintains that Mr Rs representatives should  be required to answer  
a series of questions  it proposed asking in February 2020. And, in response to my earlier decision 
and the investigators assessment, it made the following key points in respect of the merits of the 
complaint:
The Investigator's position on causation in both cases relies on inferences and statements  
from Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors, without input or submissions  from Best Practice. The purpose 
of the questions  it proposed asking in February was:
to seek  evidence  to support or refute the statements made in their letter of complaint 
relating to causation;
to assist Best Practice make submissions  on the alleged losses suffered;
to clarify  the position  around  Future Financial's  alleged acts that are said to have 
caused those losses;
to clarify  the financial sophistication of Mr and Mrs R at the time they entered  into the 
SIPP and investments;
to understand whether it was their intention  to enter into the investments in any event; 
and
to understand any steps taken by Mr and Mrs R to mitigate their losses.
Requiring Mr and Mrs R to answer the questions proposed is necessary and proportionate for 
the fair and reasonable determination of their complaints. It also accords with the principles of 
procedural fairness and natural  justice.  Best Practice is being denied the opportunity to 
challenge unproven assertions made by Mr and Mrs R in relation  to their alleged losses.  
The relevance of some  of the key questions is as follows:
Questions 1 to 5 - Mr and Mrs Rs representative  has referred to a number of 
'brochures' for their investments,  which the investigator also referred  to in his 
assessment. The comments in their complaint  letter indicate these brochures  may 
have suggested the investments were  especially  high-risk, speculative and/or UCIS. 
In view of their occupations, its arguable  that Mr and Mrs R had a higher than 
average degree of financial  sophistication. Further,  its arguable  they would have  
known that financial  products are normally accompanied  by formal documentation, 
and it is unclear if they were given any, and if not, whether they accepted this as a 
reasonable position.
Ref: DRN20493635Question 7 - This is intended to explore whether, at any time before they made  their 
investments, Mr and Mrs R could have fallen  into any of the categories listed in The 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 4.12. This is particularly relevant in view of 
Mrs Rs occupation.
Questions 8 and 11 - Mr and Mrs R seem to suggest that both the fact find and 
suitability report state the incorrect attitude to risk. But its unclear why they didnt 
challenge this at the time and signed the fact find if this wasnt correct. Further,  if they 
think Mr H deliberately  attempted to mis-state their attitude to risk in the fact find, this 
supports Best Practice's  concern that he may have impersonated Mr G and/or Future  
Financial. Alternatively, if Mr and Mrs R say they didnt see these  documents, the 
question arises as to how they could be said to have caused  their loss.
Question 18 - Its unclear what (if any) steps Mr and Mrs R took to mitigate their loss 
when they first had concerns with the performance of their investments.
Best Practice  hasnt seen the investment  brochures referred to above and should have the 
opportunity to comment on them before a decision is reached.
It was inappropriate  for the investigator to rely on documentation in another unrelated 
complaint. Each case  must be looked at on its own merits.
After this letter was received, I asked our investigator to send Best Practice copies of the various 
investment brochures Mr and Mrs R have said were given by Mr H before their pension benefits were 
switched to a SIPP. I also asked him to contact  Mr and Mrs R with a series  of questions  to obtain 
further information on issues I believed  required  clarification. Many of the questions  I asked related  to 
issues raised by Best Practices representative in its letter of February 2020. Ive asked the 
investigator to send  a copy of their response, including evidence of Mrs Rs travel arrangements in 
February 2012, to Best Practice.
My Provisional Findings
Both parties and their representatives have made extensive submissions and Ive read and 
considered these carefully. But I havent tried to address every single issue raised and Ive instead 
concentrated on those that I believe are central to the outcome of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
It remains my view that this complaint is one we can consider for the reasons  set out in detail in my 
jurisdiction decision dated 19 February 2020. These can be summarised  as follows:
The complaint is essentially about Future Financials alleged role in advising on and arranging 
Mr Rs SIPP and unregulated  investments and their suitability for his circumstances and 
needs.
The evidence  shows the regulated activities of advising on and arranging Mr Rs SIPP and 
pension switch were carried out by Mr G of Future Financial. It doesnt support Best Practices 
view that Mr H impersonated  him without his knowledge.
These activities were among those Future Financial  was authorised to carry out by Best 
Practice under  the terms of their AR agreement. Restrictions covering how Future Financial 
should have carried out the activities  it was authorised  for, including  the status of the 
individual involved  and the requirement to notify the principal of business  within 30 days, 
arent sufficient for Best Practice to avoid responsibility. So Best Practice is responsible for 
Future Financials acts as if they were  its own.
Ref: DRN20493636While Best Practices representative has said it strongly disagrees with my jurisdiction decision,  it 
hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider and its response to the 
investigators assessment is focussed on the merits of the complaint.
Merits
Mr Rs complaint essentially  centres on his view that the investments within his SIPP  werent suitable 
for his circumstances and needs. But switching his pension benefits  to the SIPP  was a necessary 
precursor to being able to incorporate the unregulated investments into his pension  planning. So, I 
think its clear that any advice on the pension  and the investments was closely linked.
What was Mr Hs role and who was he representing?
From the evidence  Ive seen, it appears to me that any advice on Mr Rs investments within the SIPP 
was given  by Mr H rather than Mr G. In my view, the email  correspondence provided  from the 
beginning of 2012 also shows Mr H was involved in promoting the investments, including providing 
various brochures,  and then making the necessary arrangements with the investment  providers. He 
was assisted  in these activities  by his colleague,  Mr J, who described himself  in an email dated 26 
March 2012 as Mr Hs little sidekick.
Mr Hs status is not entirely clear. According to the Financial Services Register,  he was never  
authorised through  and didnt  hold a regulated role with Future  Financial  or any other AR of Best 
Practice. And I note Mr and Mrs Rs representative has told us he didnt provide a business card or 
similar indicating he was its employee.
But its been  suggested Mr H may have worked for Future Financial in a different capacity that wasnt 
regulated and I think theres evidence to support  this. For example, he sent an undated letter on 
Future Financial  headed  paper to Mr and Mrs R after their initial meeting  at the end of 2011. This 
described Mr Hs initial brief as to identify savings that can be made to your family budget  and 
initially referred  to various insurance  policies. Later on it said:
The pensions  you both have should be looked at more  thoroughly
and suggested:
Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) might make sense for either  one or both of you.
It then went  on to explain some of the potential benefits of a SIPP in general terms.
While this appears to show Mr H acting for Future Financial at the time he first met Mr and Mrs R, I 
think its relevant  to note that this particular  letter didnt offer specific advice on pensions  and 
investments or promote particular investments  to them.
The promotion of particular investments and any associated advice appears to have started  at the 
beginning of 2012 and is evidenced by a number of emails from the time in which Mr H provided  
details of various  investment offerings to Mrs R and discussed her views on them.  But in terms of who 
Mr H was representing at this time, I note that he used  either  his personal  email address or an 
address that appears to relate to a different firm, charterhouseam, which doesnt  appear to have 
been authorised by the regulator.  Mr J, who didnt hold a regulated role with Future Financial either, 
also used his personal email  address for correspondence.  So its not clear  they were acting for Future 
Financial at the time.
On balance, I think  its most likely that Mr H wasnt representing Future Financial (or Best Practice) 
when carrying out the regulated activities  of advising on and arranging Mr Rs investments,  or the 
ancillary activity  of promoting them. I think he was instead acting essentially  as an unlicensed 
introducer. On that basis, Best Practice cant be held responsible for his actions.
Ref: DRN20493637What was Mr Gs role and who was he representing?
As I discussed in my jurisdiction decision, I think theres considerable evidence  Mr G gave advice on 
Mr Rs SIPP and pension switch. In particular,  the file of papers  provided included a suitability letter  
that appears to have  been  issued by Mr G and referred to:
Having conducted  a thorough Personal Financial  Questionnaire and Needs Analysis . . .
It also said:
We discussed all aspects of your financial situation  and from the information I gathered in the 
Financial Questionnaire we have identified the only area which you all wish to address at this 
moment in time relates to your retirement planning only. 
It then discussed the merits of SIPPs  as an alternative for the money  held in Mr Rs personal pension 
and said:
A number of other SIPP providers were identified  as being suitable. We carried out market 
research as to which we felt would be most suitable for your needs. Given  your risk profile 
and the types of investment you had expressed a desire in making, we felt only a SIPP 
offering genuinely  alternative investments would meet your objectives. Either a Low Cost 
SIPP permitting one or two alternative investments  or a Full SIPP would  meet your needs. 
Most likely, given the modest level of funds available  here, a low cost SIPP would  be most 
appropriate as you would only be able to make one or two investments.
Under the heading Recommendations, the letter then said:
Taking into your account  your objectives, attitude  to risk and affordability,  I would recommend 
The Lifetime SIPP Co Cash Plus Two Investments Self Invested Personal Pension.  We have 
agreed that you will initially be transferring in your Standard Life FSAVC. We believe this lo be 
the most suitable product  to meet your needs.
Then, under  the heading  Recommended Provider, the letter said:
We have identified  that certain  features of a Self Invested Personal Pension are essential  for 
your current needs. This information has been used to provide a shortlist of companies, which 
meet your requirements. We have  provided  you with a list of these SIPP  providers. The 
purpose of this research is to show you which  of the SIPP providers we are able to offer to 
you together with a clear approach to their charges.  As previously mentioned, it was felt and 
agreed that an established strong  SIPP provider with competitive charges  and good 
administration was essential and therefore  The Lifetime SIPP  co was recommended  and 
agreed.
Finally, the closing Confirmation section of the letter said:
I would like to thank you for seeking advice  from Future Financial.
We have identified  your objectives  and I hope you will agree that the recommendations  that I 
have made  coincide with your current needs and future requirements.
Weve also been provided with a copy of a fact find completed  for Mr and Mrs R, and this is 
presumably the financial  questionnaire mentioned in the suitability letter.  I think these  documents  
provide compelling evidence Mr G gave  advice  on Mr Rs SIPPs and that he was acting for Future 
Financial when he did so. The suitability  letter clearly states a "recommendation was being made and 
thanks Mr R for seeking advice from Future Financial. The email correspondence between  Lifetime 
and Mr H in August 2012 also shows it needed  advice documentation to accompany Mr Rs 
application. 
Ref: DRN20493638There is other evidence that also indicates Future Financials involvement in advising on Mr Rs SIPP. 
For example, his Lifetime SIPP application dated 21 February 2012 said:
In return  for the services to be provided  by TLSC [Lifetime] , I agree that TLSC may deduct 
from my fund the charges as advised and such additional charges as I have agreed with 
(please insert name of IFA in box)
Future Financial
and may realise any of the investments held for my benefit  in order to pay such charges and 
any third party costs/fees  relating to those investments or advice I receive  in respect of this 
arrangement.
It also says:
I hereby appoint (please  insert name of investment  manager in box)
Future Financial
Investment managers for the purposes of the Lifetime SIPP and fully understand and agree  
that in all circumstances  I am solely responsible for all decisions relating to the purchase, 
retention and sale of investments held under  the SIPP  for my benefit  I agree  to fully indemnify 
TLSC (the SIPP Provider) and The SIPP Trustee Provider Ltd (The SIPP Trustee) against  
any claim in respect of such decisions.
Further, Lifetime  has also provided a copy of its New  SIPP Checklist for Mr Rs application dated  1 
June 2012 and this records Future Financial (with its correct reference number) as the independent 
financial adviser (IFA) involved. I also note that Hartley  sent an email to Mrs R dated 24 September 
2015, which began:  
As confirmed  on when  we've spoken earlier,  your original IFA details were:
Future Financial
IFA Registration Number - 542647
The Lifetime  group or Hartley  SAS no longer do any business with Future  Financial as they 
are no longer a regulated  IFA. This was the case for both of yourself and your husband.
Given that their SIPPS appear  to have been set up in the same way around the same time, and in 
view of the other documentation provided, I think its reasonable to believe Lifetimes  records will also 
show Future Financial as the IFA that advised on and arranged Mr Rs pension.
I note Best Practice has suggested Mr H somehow impersonated Mr G without his knowledge  and 
that he was actually unaware of what took place. But no evidence has been provided to support that 
view. It did previously suggest it would  obtain comments from Mr G on this point but nothing  has been 
forthcoming so far. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs R say they didnt meet Mr G in person, but I think the documentation shows he 
actively considered  their circumstances and offered advice. Whether hed met them or was advising 
from a distance, he still had a responsibility  to make  sure that advice was suitable in line with the 
relevant regulatory requirements.
As Ive said,  I think Mr H was acting as an unlicensed introducer  when advising  on and arranging  Mr 
Rs investments.  But that created a problem as the investments being used could only be established 
if he switched his pension benefits to a SIPP.  The correspondence  between  Lifetime and Mr H and Mr 
J in August 2012 appears to show it would only accept applications  from a regulated  firm, which 
Ref: DRN20493639meant it was necessary for a regulated firm to advise  on and arrange  the SIPP and pension switches.  
I think  thats where Mr G became involved and I believe  the evidence shows he was representing 
Future Financial  when  advising on Mr Rs pension  arrangements.
Was Mr G of Future Financial responsible  for ensuring the investments within Mr Rs SIPP were  
suitable?
The background  Ive described  is one where Mr H gave advice on and arranged  Mr Rs investments 
and Mr Gs involvement in the process (acting for Future Financial) was limited to advising on his 
SIPP and pension switch.  But even if his advice  was limited to Mr Rs pension arrangements, that 
doesnt mean  he wasnt also responsible  for ensuring  his investments were  suitable.
In January 2013, the regulator (at that time, the Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued an Alert 
on pension transfers with a view to investing into unregulated products through SIPPs. Although  the 
alert was issued after the actions in this case  took place,  it commented on how the rules should have  
been complied with at the time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advise rs are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g. an overseas 
property development). When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on 
the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial  adviser also assists 
the customer  to unlock monies  held in other investments  (e.g. other pension arrangements) 
so that the customer  is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
. . . .
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
Ref: DRN204936310For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
I think  the guidance  is clear  that Mr G shouldnt have been making arrangements to switch  Mr Rs 
pension benefits  to the SIPP without first considering the type of investments hed go on to use and 
whether these were  suitable  for him. Weve been  provided with a copy of a fact find and suitability  
letter covering the advice Mr G gave to Mr R on his pension.  This information  clearly  shows he was 
aware Mr R planned to use the money switched  to his SIPP to fund unregulated investments. 
Taking everything into account, I think its clear that I now need to consider whether  Mr Rs 
investments were suitable  for his needs. And if not, whether its appropriate to require Best Practice to 
put things right.
Were the investments suitable for Mr R?
For him to conclude  the advice to switch his pension  benefits  to the SIPP was suitable for Mr R, 
knowing the type of investments that would  then be used,  Mr G needed to be broadly satisfied that:
the type of investment planned met his investment objectives and attitude to risk;
this type of investment fitted his financial  position and he could reasonably afford  to take the 
risks involved; and
he understood and was prepared to accept those risks.
In considering these issues now, its important that I dont base my decision on hindsight.  Mr G 
wouldnt have known at the time that the investments would perform as they did and their nature 
doesnt mean  they were  automatically destined to fail.
Mr R used two different  investments within  his SIPP,  both of which had different features  and 
associated risks. But its important to recognise they werent mainstream investments. They  were  
specialised investments  that posed a complex  series of risks. They invested in a single type of asset, 
which increased the chances of future liquidity problems  and/or the failure of the investment. They  
were also based overseas,  meaning they were subject to laws in other countries and potential 
currency fluctuations. Further, they were unregulated, meaning Mr R couldnt fall back on the 
protection offered  by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  if things went wrong.  All 
of this means the investments would reasonably be seen  as involving a high degree  of risk and thats 
why the regulator has consistently said they arent suitable for and shouldnt be marketed to most 
retail investors.
When advising Mr R, Mr G should have treated him as a normal retail client and Ive seen nothing to 
indicate a valid assessment was completed that meant he could reasonably have been treated in any 
other way. While he ran his own business, this had nothing  to do with financial services and no other 
evidence has been provided to show he was an experienced  or sophisticated investor. Ive no doubt 
Ref: DRN204936311Mr R would have discussed  the proposed investment with Mrs R and Best Practices representative  
has referred to her occupation before her career break. I accept this meant she should  have had an 
understanding of company finance. But she wasnt a qualified financial adviser and her background  
didnt make her an expert in investments either, particularly non-mainstream, specialised  investments 
like those  she and Mr R ended up using. It certainly  seems that Mr and Mrs R felt they required 
advice otherwise they presumably wouldnt have needed to contact Mr H in the first place. 
Mrs R was provided with a considerable amount of promotional literature relating to the investments 
being considered and her email correspondence  with Mr H in the early part of 2012 appears to show 
she read and considered this. For example, in an email  dated 13 January 2012, she said:
Thanks for all of this [referring to the various investment brochures Mr H had provided] . . . 
Ive got plenty  to think about! I dont think I could get finances together quickly enough  for the 
solar one as it is a minimum investment of £10,000 so it would have to be a SIPP,  but I will 
look at all the others over the weekend  and early next week.
In another email dated 23 January 2012, she said:
Ive been slowly  wading through them [again referring  to the various investment brochures  Mr 
H had provided] and have some which  I prefer over others.
And in a later email dated 27 February 2012, Mrs R said:
I have been going through all the prospectuses etc that you left with me and have a couple of 
questions. I am trying to evaluate  predicted returns in 10 years time for all the investments to 
allow some  sort of crude comparison, but the Ukrainian  one just says "at the end of the 
investment period the company intends to redeem all bonds" do you know long this period will 
be or is there no fixed time? 
Also do you have any performance information on the Vintage Cars fund? Either past or 
predicted would do, I just want to get an indication  of potential returns.
I am probably not going to do the Chateau  scheme as I'm uncertain about  the future
occupancy levels of luxury  hotels, but haven't  discarded it completely yet.
Ive also no doubt Mrs R would have  discussed  this information with her husband. But the fact one or 
both of them  read this information doesnt mean they didnt need advice on whether the investments 
were suitable.  Its important to remember that any analysis of the investments they carried out would 
have been based on the content  of the promotional literature and Ive considered  whether  this 
explained nature and risks of the investments clearly and in a way that would have allowed them  to 
make a fully informed  decision.
By way of example, Ill refer to the content of the promotional literature for the Venture Oil investment 
made by Mrs R in her SIPP, the cover of which says it was targeted to produce returns of 20% to 30% 
per year. It then begins  with a Notice to Recipients that says:
This information is not produced or intended  for members  of the public or general circulation. 
Only authorised and regulated advisors  are able to provide investment advice to their clients 
whom they know to be certified sophisticated investors.
This document details an alternative investment  through the purchase of shares in an 
unquoted company.
 
The following pages then provide an overview  and summary of the investment, including its structure 
and tax position.  Towards  the end, it has a section entitled Risk Factors, which says (in full):
Ref: DRN204936312Potential investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in relation to the 
investment, which individually  or in aggregate could have a material  effect on the investment  
return, and should consult their financial adviser before investing. Investors  should  be aware 
that the value of this investment is linked intrinsically to the oil prices  and in the event that oil 
prices dramatically  reduced this would  significantly  reduce the investment  returns.
Valuation of the Royalties  and Oil producing Wells
The sales comparison approach in valuing  such an investment as this has some limited use in 
providing a range of values.  Differences in location, procedures,  facilities and property rights 
transferred and many  other  variables make  a precise  comparison between the comparable 
sales and this particular project difficult. Subjective adjustments used to lessen these 
difficulties are highly speculative. Moreover, there is no accurate way of determining whether  
the sales  prices actually  paid represent market values, because it is difficult  to determine the 
exact motivations  of the buyers and sellers, or what special conditions  may have influenced 
the sale.
Operational risk
This risk represents the possibility  that the operator is responsible for the extraction of the oil 
will under-perform and will therefore experience period of financial distress. However, given 
the relative experience of the operator appointed to extract the oil and maintain the level of oil 
production, the level of operational risk is not considered high.
Market risk 
Volatility in economic, growth rates, oil prices, investment values and exchange rates may 
affect returns as a result  of their impact on the performance of the investment.
Currency
The deposit  into the investment is made from Sterling  into US Dollars. Returns are paid into 
the Syndicate Company  in US Dollars.  There are inherent risks in any exchange rate 
dependent investment. Should  the UK Pound against  the US Dollar be stronger the return  will 
be greater.  Should the UK Pound against the US Dollar be weaker the return  will be less. 
(This assumes that all other  variables are constant).
Investors should consider  the current risk associated  with this investment over the lifetime  of 
the investment  as well as the political considerations associated with these jurisdictions and 
how they might affect these  interacting  exchange rates.
Sale
Whilst the shares in the Syndicate  can be sold at any time following purchase  (subject to the 
majority vote of its shareholders) the price that will be attained when  shares are sold will be 
heavily dependent on a number  of factors, most of which are detailed  within this report.  The 
better the performance of the income  revenue at the time of sale, the higher the sale price  will 
be. The sale of shares will be dependent  on a number  of factors including market  liquidity and 
economic conditions  at the time.
Liquidity
Though this investment is structured through the purchase of shares  in a company, the asset 
behind the investment is oil which is of a less liquid  nature than some  other asset classes.  
The investment period  id for the fixed term of 7 years  (84 months).
Ref: DRN204936313If an investor wishes to sell their shares prior to the end of the investment term,  then 
additional costs may have  to be met by that investor, such as share  valuation and 
administration costs.
Shares if sold prior to the end of the investment term will be offered for 30 days to remaining  
syndicate shareholders, before they can be offered  for sale elsewhere.
The section on risk factors  is followed by a Risk Statement,  which  says:
Investing in Oil and Gas Ventures has low to medium  level risks,  any person  who is 
considering this type of investment who is in any doubt about  the investment  to which  this 
Investment Analysis Document relates should  consult  an authorised person specialising in 
investments of this kind.
While this document certainly  set out some  of the factors that could affect how the investment 
performed, I dont think it was in any way comprehensive. For example, theres nothing I can see in 
the brochure that refers  to the prospect  of losing  a significant part, or maybe even all, of the money 
invested. Theres also no mention of the investment  being unregulated and that this meant investors 
would have no recourse  to the FSCS.
I think  its also fair to say that the risks of the investment are downplayed  in way that undermines the 
warnings that are given. For example, it says the level of operational risk is not considered high. But 
most notably, I think this occurs in the final risk statement  that claims this type of investment  involved 
low to medium level risks . Even where it talks about the consequences of a dramatic fall in oil prices, 
the comment  is framed in terms  of how that would affect returns.  It doesnt say investors could lose 
money. In view of the very high targeted returns, I think this could  still give the impression  that a 
positive return was expected.  
On balance, I dont think any analysis  Mr and Mrs R were able to carry out of this investment based 
on the information they were  given would have led them to the conclusion that, by investing,  theyd 
actually be exposing their capital to a high degree of risk. And after reviewing the rest of the 
promotional literature provided, I think the same can reasonably be said about  the other investments 
they made.
I think  this is relevant because it shows that it wouldnt  have been good enough  for Mr G to have 
assumed Mr R knew what he was getting into simply  because  he and his wife had received and read 
the promotional literature.  He needed to actively consider whether the type of investments he was 
planning to use were suitable for his circumstances  and needs and, if they werent, to explain  this and 
offer suitable  alternative advice before he arranged  the SIPP and switch of his pension benefits.
Based on the fact find and Mr Rs suitability letter, along with the recent submissions  from Mr and Mrs 
R, my understanding of their circumstances  at the time is as follows:
They  were in their 40s and had dependent  children;
Mr R was a partner  in a business and earned around £160,000 per year;
Mrs R was on a career break  and earned around £18,500 per year in rental income;
they owned their own home,  which was worth  approximately £700,000 and had an 
outstanding mortgage of £100,000;
Mr R owned a 50% share of his business premises  valued at around £500,000;
Mrs R owned two rental properties, valued at around £90,000 each with no outstanding 
mortgages;
Mrs R owned a 3/8th share in another property worth £200,000 with an outstanding mortgage 
of £80,000;
Mr R had accrued  benefits  in an occupational  pension scheme, into which he was still 
contributing, and also paid into an Additional  Voluntary  Contribution (AVC);
he also had a Free Standing Additional  Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) with Standard Life, 
which was switched into his SIPP ;
Ref: DRN204936314Mrs R had no pension benefits other than the personal pensions that were  switched into her 
SIPP; and
they had some savings in the bank (the fact find says this was approximately £19,000 but 
they say it was less than this), around £20,000 in listed shares and £65,000 in savings plans. 
Their representative says this was the extent of their investment experience.
In respect of his objectives, the suitability report completed for Mr R says:
You want to do something different with your Standard Life FSAVC. Whilst  this has not 
performed especially badly in comparison  with other equity funds, you are disappointed by the 
lack of growth achieved. You have read a lot about alternative investments and wish to use 
the money available from this pension to invest in this way. You are not reliant on the 
performance of this fund & can afford to take a much bigger risk with this fund; & this is your 
wish. 
The fact find recorded Mr and Mrs Rs attitude  to risk as being high on the following scale:
low low/medium Medium medium/high high
But Mr Rs suitability report records his attitude to risk as medium/high , which was defined as 
follows:
Medium/High
You are a balanced/high risk investor and want a high proportion of funds  to be in a range  of 
collectives, property and other alternative investments and asset classes.  However, some 
investments could be in more cautious funds where there may be a limited degree of 
fluctuation of values. Your objective is the hope of achieving medium/long term capital growth.
There is also a note on the fact find that records Mr Rs Standard  Life pension benefits as frozen  
which Id like to do something adventurous with.
In contrast, Mr Rs representative says he doesnt recall discussing his attitude  to risk at the time. 
Further, that he doesnt  and has never considered  himself as anything more than a low to medium 
risk investor. It also says Mr R wasnt provided  with a copy of the fact find and suitability report  at the 
time of sale.
Theres clearly a dispute  about Mr Rs attitude  to risk and I note the fact find and suitability letter arent  
consistent on this point either, each offering a different  assessment. 
The fact find appears to have been signed by Mr and Mrs R, but the description of each level of risk 
cant be read on the copy  of the document provided to me. Its also not clear  what  questions  were  
asked of Mr R and how an assessment of his attitude to risk was reached. Without this information, I 
cant be sure he would have  understood  it and the possible implications or that its reliable.  Further, 
Im conscious  Mr and Mrs Rs representative says they have no recollection of the fact find and have  
provided evidence that appears  to show Mrs R was out of the country on the date it was meant to 
have been signed.
The attitude  to risk assessment in the suitability letter does at least include an explanation of what  
medium/high might  mean, but again theres no record of the questions  Mr R was asked  and how this 
assessment of his attitude to risk was reached. Again, Without this information, I cant  be sure he 
would have understood  it and the possible implications or that its reliable. As with the fact find, I also 
need to be aware that Mr R says he doesnt recall receiving the suitability  letter  and I note it wasnt 
signed by either him or Mr G and we dont  have a copy of a covering letter  or anything else to 
demonstrate it was actually given to him.
Ref: DRN204936315In view of the inconsistencies in the assessment of Mr Rs attitude  to risk in the sales documentation 
and the issues Ive identified with relying on either, Im not inclined to accept the attitude  to risk 
assessment in either the fact find or the suitability letter without question. I think its necessary to 
consider Mr Rs broader circumstances to determine what  this was likely  to have been.
Mr Rs representative says he stopped paying into his FSAVC on the advice of an accountant  who 
told him it wasnt increasing in value. So it seems  he was looking to do something else with this 
money and I think its likely  Mr R was prepared to accept some risk in exchange for a potentially 
higher return.  I think the comments from his representative confirm this. But I dont think a 
consideration of his circumstances supports the view that he understood he was exposing his money  
to the additional risks associated with high-risk unregulated  investments like those  he used or that he 
was willing to do so. Theres no record of him having  used high-risk, non-mainstream investments 
previously and I dont think vague references to other alternative investments and asset classes  or 
doing something adventurous in the fact find and suitability letter (even  if he had seen these 
documents) show  he wanted  to start doing so at this point.
Further, the consideration of whether the advice  to switch to the SIPP was suitable for Mr R should  
have gone further than a consideration of the whether the type of investments hed be using  matched 
his attitude  to risk. Mr G should also have considered other factors,  including charges, which are 
typically higher for SIPPs than for other types of personal pension. He seems to have been aware of 
this point and the suitability letter states:
SIPPS tend to be expensively  charged products in comparison with most other  types of 
pensions and savings  vehicles.
This should have been a particularly  important consideration in Mr Rs circumstances given the 
amount switched  was small and the negative impact of higher fees could be comparatively more  
significant than if hed had a larger fund.
On reviewing the SIPP  history provided  by Hartley, I can see that Mr R paid an initial fee of £450 after 
the switch was completed, which equated  to nearly  3% of this value of his pension.  He then paid 
further SIPP  fees of £360 in 2013, £372 in 2014,  £504 in 2015, £504 in 2016,  £864 in 2017,  and £864 
in 2018. I think this shows  that the fees paid accounted  for a significant portion of his funds and 
theyre higher than I believe  he needed to pay if hed used  a standard  personal pension  or FSAVC.  In 
the absence of evidence Mr R was particularly looking to access non-mainstream  investments that 
could only be used in a SIPP or that such investments  were consistent with his attitude to risk, I think 
a consideration of the charges only serves to reinforce my view that advice  to switch his pension  
benefits to a SIPP was unsuitable.
On balance, I think  the type of investments he was planning to use within his SIPP involved a greater 
degree of risk than Mr R was prepared to accept and for this reason they were  unsuitable.  I also think 
the impact of the SIPP fees on the overall  value  of his fund, which was particularly significant in view 
of the amount being invested, meant the switch  was unlikely to be suitable. If Mr G had carried  out a 
proper suitability assessment as he should have, I believe  he should  have reached the same 
conclusions. Before arranging Mr Rs SIPP  or the switching of his pension  benefits, he should  
therefore have explained  to Mr R that the type of investments hed been discussing with Mr H werent 
suitable. He should have explained the reasons for this view and offered  suitable alternative options.  
Its because he didnt do this that Im currently proposing to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
 
the consequences of this failing
Im satisfied the decision  to use unregulated  investments came from Mr Rs discussions  with Mr H, but 
theres no suggestion he came  up with this idea.  As Mr H appears to have been operating as an 
unlicensed introducer promoting unregulated  investments, I think  its most likely  he suggested this 
option. 
Ref: DRN204936316Either way, Mr G was a qualified adviser and if hed explained  to Mr R that the investments he was 
planning to use werent suitable, explained the reasons for his view,  and offered appropriate 
alternatives, I dont think its likely hed have  proceeded.  I dont think  the evidence shows he was 
particularly attached to the use of unregulated  investments or that he would  have proceeded anyway 
if hed been advised  against it.
Im aware Mr G of Future Financial wasnt the only person involved in the events being  complained 
about. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, I believe Mr R would now be in a different position if hed 
acted as he should have.  Ive already  explained  why I think Mr G was acting for Future  Financial (and 
as an AR of Best Practice)  when advising  him and that this was something Future Financial  was 
permitted to do under the terms of the AR agreement. Im therefore  satisfied its appropriate for me to 
require Best Practice to put things right.
I note Mr Rs unregulated investments werent  finalised  until July and August 2012,  which was after 
Future Financial  ceased  to be an AR of Best Practice on 26 June 2012.  But Im upholding this 
complaint because of shortcomings in the pension  advice given by Mr G, which culminated  with Mr 
Rs Standard Life benefits  being transferred to the SIPP  on 15 June 2012, at which time Best Practice  
was still responsible for Future Financials actions.
conclusions
Im satisfied Mr G advised  Mr R on his pension  arrangements, that he was acting for Future Financial 
when he did so, and that Best Practice is responsible  for his actions. When  giving advice on Mr Rs 
pension arrangements,  he also had a responsibility to consider whether the investments he was 
planning to use were suitable. Because the investments were unsuitable and Mr G didnt explain  this 
or offer suitable  alternatives as he should have,  I think  Mr R is in a different position  to that which  he 
should be and that its appropriate for me to require  Best Practice to put things right.
Putting Things Right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would probably now be in 
if hed been given suitable advice. On the basis that he seems to have been dissatisfied  with his 
FSAVC and wanted  to improve the returns he was receiving,  I think  its likely he would have done 
something else rather than carry on investing in the same funds  with the same provider. But with 
suitable advice, I dont think he would have used a selection  of unregulated investments in a SIPP. Its 
not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below  is 
fair and reasonable given  his circumstances and objectives at the time.
Best Practices representative appears to be questioning  what steps Mr R took to mitigate his loss, 
but I dont think theres any failing on his part in this area that should  affect any compensation hes 
now due. Mr R raised a complaint with Best Practice within the timeframe set out in our rules and, 
given the nature  of his investments and whats happened to them, its difficult  to see what else he 
could reasonably have been expected to do to mitigate his loss.
What should Best Practice do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Best Practice should  compare  the performance of his SIPP  with that of 
the benchmark shown. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, theres  a loss and 
compensation is payable. Best Practice should also add interest as set out below. If the actual value  
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, Best Practice should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value  by the amount  
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. I note Mr Rs representative says hed rather  compensation  wasnt paid into his 
pension, but Im trying  to return him to the position hed now be in but for the unsuitable advice he 
received. If Mr G had offered  appropriate  advice, I think  his money would be in a pension  plan and 
that this is therefore how compensation  should be paid. That said, compensation  shouldnt be paid 
Ref: DRN204936317into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Best Practice is unable to pay the compensation  into Mr R's pension plan,  it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr R's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr R would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest. If Best Practice deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Best Practice should  give Mr R a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Actual value
This is the actual value  of the SIPP at the end date.
 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the SIPP. This is complicated  where some  of the 
investments it contains are illiquid  (meaning  they cant be readily sold on the open market) as appears 
to be the case here. So, the actual value  of any illiquid investments should be assumed to be nil to 
calculate fair compensation. Best Practice should take ownership of illiquid investments by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as set out above.
If Best Practice is unable to purchase any of the investments, the actual value should  be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Best Practice may require Mr R to provide an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive  from those investments in the future. That undertaking must  allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan.  Best 
Practice will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return  using the 
benchmark. Any additional sum Mr R paid into the SIPP  should be added  to the fair value calculation 
at the point  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should 
be deducted from the fair value  calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Best Practice totals all those  payments and deducts that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
 
Ref: DRN204936318Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted growth and was willing  to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr R's 
circumstances and attitude  to risk. 
additional compensation
The SIPP only exists  because  of the unregulated  investments used.  In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further fees to be prevented, any illiquid investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set 
out above  how this might be achieved by Best Practice taking over the investments,  or this is 
something Mr R can discuss with the SIPP  provider  directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power  to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that Best Practice pay Mr R an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using  the previous years fees). This should  provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
I think  the problems Mr R has experienced  with his pension arrangements as a result of the actions of 
Mr G of Future Financial  have caused him considerable  unnecessary trouble  and upset  over a 
prolonged period and that he should be compensated for that. The precise impact of this situation on 
Mr R, and therefore the amount to award, is difficult to assess. But in the circumstances,  I think  a 
substantial payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. Best Practice would need  to pay this amount 
direct to Mr R (not into his pension) in addition  to any compensation calculated using the method 
outlined above.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Best Practice  IFA 
Group Limited should pay Mr R compensation calculated using the method set out above, including  
the additional compensation covering future SIPP fees and for his trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN2049363