K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr R says Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading at the time as Egg, mis-
sold the PPI to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Egg had to make it clear  to Mr R that he had a choice  about  it. But 
Mr R says the PPI was added without his knowledge.
Eggs record of Mr Rs application for the credit card shows that it was done online.  And Egg 
has sent us screenshots of what it says the online application form wouldve looked like at 
the time.  This included a section on PPI, with yes and no options  to be selected  to show  
whether the customer  wanted to take it out. And Eggs record of Mr Rs application also 
shows he selected the yes option.
Based on this, I think Egg did make it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr R chose to take it, knowing he didnt have  to.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide  if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the policy  couldve 
paid out for significantly longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. So it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong.
Mr R has said he had assets he couldve sold, that his parents wouldve helped  him with his 
repayments and that he had life insurance. But the PPI wouldve meant  he didnt need to sell 
his assets or rely on his parents if he wasnt earning.  And it provided  different cover to his life 
insurance. So I still think the PPI would have  been  useful to him. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr R off taking it 
out.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr R about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mr R, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN22328892To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2232889