K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. Mr H 
says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading  as Egg at the time,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Mr H says he was told the PPI was required and he doesnt recall having a choice  about  it. 
But based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think Canada Square made it clear that Mr H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this. I say this having  seen evidence  that Mr Hs credit card application was 
made online without  any involvement from a Canada Square sales person during completion 
of the application. And Canada Square  has sent me copies  of the screen  shots it says Mr H 
wouldve seen at the time. These  include equally prominent yes and no options for PPI. 
Canada Square  has told us that Mr H wouldnt have been able to continue onto the next 
screens without making a decision  on whether  or not to take out the cover.  Ive also seen a 
copy of the applications report which recorded  the answers Mr H gave online and this shows  
a Y in the box for PPI - this box wouldve had an N in it if Mr H had ticked  no to the PPI - 
so I think this reflected  what he wanted  at the time.    
As this was an internet sale and theres  no evidence Mr H spoke to anyone  from Canada 
Square while completing his application, I think this was a non-advised sale.  This means 
Canada Square  didnt have to check if it was right for him but it did have to make sure Mr H 
got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Mr H says he had sick pay and savings  at the time so this PPI wasnt needed   but this sale 
was non-advised  so it was up to Mr H to decide if the policy  wouldve  been of any use to 
him. And Ive seen  from the screen  shots  provided  by Canada Square  that Mr H was 
informed that the PPI provided protection in the event of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment for a cost of £0.74 per £100.  So even though Mr H may not have been given 
all the information  about the policy, I think Mr H wouldve had some idea of what the policy  
wouldve costed him and what it was designed  to cover him for. 
In any event, upon a successful claim  the PPI wouldve  paid 10% of Mr Hs outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months.  This would be in addition to for longer than his sick pay and 
savings wouldve lasted  him. Mr H also told us he had some  other  insurance  in place which 
he couldve  relied on  specifically another accident and sickness  policy.  Having seen some 
Ref: DRN28509812of the details of this cover Ive seen that upon  a successful  claim the policy wouldve 
provided a fraction  of his weekly income  had he been unable to work  so while  this 
wouldve helped him keep up with his outgoing  if he was too sick to work, I dont think  having 
this policy  in place  meant  the PPI wouldnt have been of any use to him. And so I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what he said about receiving money 
back from another business when he complained  about  the sale of PPI on that credit card. 
But this decision is only about  what  happened  at the time Mr H took out his PPI with Canada 
Square on his credit card from 2004. So the circumstances  surrounding the sale of his other 
card taken out with another business is not relevant to this complaint. And so this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Canada Square  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2850981