K821x#15Complaint
Mr D and Ms A complain  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold  them  two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
Background
This complaint is about two single premium  PPI policies taken out in 1998  and 1999. They  
were taken out when  Mr D and Ms A applied for two unsecured loans  the first by filling out 
an application form they picked up in a branch  and the second during a phone call. Both 
policies were in Mr Ds name only and covered him for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Mr D was self-employed at the time of both sales.
The first PPI policy was cancelled in 1999  when the second loan was taken out, and Mr D 
and Ms A received a pro-rata refund of the cost theyd paid. They asked for the second 
policy to be cancelled in 2001, but Nationwide failed to act on their instructions. It realised 
this when it received  Mr D and Ms As mis-sale complaint so it paid them compensation to 
put them in the position they wouldve been  in if the PPI had been cancelled  in 2001.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld because  he didnt think 
Mr D was eligible for the policies.
Nationwide didnt agree,  so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I said:
1998 sale
I think Nationwide made Mr D and Ms A aware that the PPI was optional and that they 
chose to take it. I say this because the postal  application  form included equally clear 
options to accept or decline  the PPI. Mr D ticked the Yes box and he signed  
separately from the loan application  to confirm that he wanted it.
The terms and conditions  which most likely applied say that, to be eligible for the policy, 
Mr D needed have  been:
..in employment not less than 16 hours per week, continuously for the past 6 months
From what  hes told us, although his hours may have varied  from week  to week,  I think  
its likely  that Mr D worked an average of more  than 16 hours a week  and had done  so 
for the previous six months.  In coming to this conclusion, Ive taken into account the 
banks records which show that, when he and Ms A applied for the loan, it asked for 
evidence of their income. Mr D supplied evidence of his pay for the previous  12 months 
and the member of staff recorded that this showed  Mr D had plenty of business and 
that business  looks constant and plentiful.
So, overall, based on the information Ive got at present, I think  Mr D was eligible for the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN23425262Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him.
Mr D was self-employed, but as the terms of the policy didnt make it more difficult for 
him to make  a claim than if hed been  an employee, I dont think  he wouldve made a 
different decision if these had been brought to his attention. Ive considered in particular 
that Mr D wouldnt have  been able to make  a successful claim for unemployment  which 
was a normal incident or seasonal occurrence in [his] normal occupation or 
unemployment following  termination of employment  of a casual, short term or 
temporary nature. But from what 
Mr Ds told us so far, I dont think his pattern of work  would have meant he was affected 
by these clauses.  So this doesnt  make  a difference to my conclusion.
Mr D wasnt affected by any of the other conditions limiting the policys  main benefits,  
such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could have  
benefitted from the full extent  of the cover, I think it unlikely better  advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed Mr D and Ms As 
decision to have the PPI.
The cost of the PPI and the interest  Mr D and Ms A needed to pay on the premium was 
set out in the loan agreement paperwork which they signed before the loan was agreed. 
So 
I think Mr D and Ms A would have known  how much the PPI was going to cost.
Mr D and Ms A repaid the first loan early when they took out a second, top up, loan in 
1999. They  received a premium refund in proportion to the upfront costs, so I think this 
was fair.
1999 sale
Mr D applied for this loan during a phone conversation. The Nationwide member of staff 
completed a personal  loan telephone application  form during the call which records 
what was discussed.  This says that Mr D was given brief details of the PPI and asked 
Would you like optional LoanCare Cover? and Mr D confirmed that he did. I think  the 
form is likely  to be a reasonably accurate summary  of the call. So, overall, I think 
Nationwide made  Mr D and Ms A aware  that the PPI was optional and that they chose 
to take it.
The terms and conditions  say that, to be eligible for the policy,  Mr D needed have been:
..working at Your Employment of at least 16 hours per week and have been 
continuously employed for six months immediately before the Start Date..
Mr Ds bank statements for the previous five months  show  that, although the amount 
varied each week, he was receiving regular income.  So, as with the 1998  sale,  I think 
its likely  that Mr D worked an average of more  than 16 hours a week  and had done  so 
for the previous six months.  
Ref: DRN23425263Ive taken into account that from May 2000 Mr D and Ms A missed some loan 
repayments and Mr D said this was because he was having  difficulty finding work.  But 
this was after the PPI application. I cant see that, in the six months before he applied  for 
the PPI, hed had any breaks in his employment which would have  made him ineligible 
for the insurance.
So, overall, I think Mr D was eligible for the PPI.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him.
Mr D was self-employed, but as the terms of the policy didnt make it more difficult for 
him to make  a claim than if hed been  an employee, I dont think  he wouldve made a 
different decision if these had been brought to his attention. Ive considered in particular 
that Mr D wouldnt have  been able to make  a successful claim for unemployment  after  
a period of casual, temporary or occasional work or unemployment which  is a normal  
or seasonal  occurrence of Your  line of work. But from what  Mr Ds told us so far, I dont 
think his pattern of work would have meant he was affected by these clauses. So this 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion.
Mr D wasnt affected by any of the other conditions limiting the policys  main benefits,  
such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could have  
benefitted from the full extent  of the cover, I think it unlikely better  advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed Mr D and Ms As 
decision to buy the PPI.
The cost of the PPI and the interest  Mr D and Ms A needed to pay on the premium was 
set out in the loan agreement paperwork which they signed before the loan was agreed. 
So 
I think Mr D and Ms A would have known  how much the PPI was going to cost.
In both 1998 and 1999, its possible the information  Nationwide gave Mr D and Ms A 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the 
policies and so appeared to have wanted  this type of cover. I think it unlikely Mr D and 
Ms A would  have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out each policy. So I dont think either  policy 
was mis-sold.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI taken out in 1999 to Mr D and 
Ms A because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D and Ms A about  that. Because  Nationwide  didnt 
tell Mr D and Ms A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
And, in 2001,  Mr D and Ms A asked  to cancel that PPI policy. Nationwide didnt act on 
their instructions. So, in response to their complaint,  it paid them compensation to put 
them in the position they wouldve  been in if the PPI had been  cancelled in 2001.  I think 
this is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN23425264Mr D and Ms A didnt agree with my provisional decision. Mr D said, in summary, that they 
didnt need the PPI, it wasnt discussed, and he wouldnt  have been  covered because he 
was self employed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted in my provisional decision  that Mr D was self employed. But I explained  why I didnt 
think this made him ineligible for the policies and why I thought the terms of the policies 
didnt make it more difficult for him to make  a claim than someone  who was an employee. 
Mr D hasnt provided any new information about  his employment to change  my conclusion.
Hes also said the PPI wasnt discussed and that he and Ms A didnt need it. But I already 
considered both of these  arguments when I came  to my conclusion  that the policies hadnt 
been mis-sold. So I see no reason to depart from that conclusion  as set out in my provisional  
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide  Building Society 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Ms A.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back to Mr D and Ms A any commission and profit  share it 
got on the 1999 policy that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  And it needs  to put 
them in the position theyd  be in now if the policy had been  cancelled in 2001  when they 
requested it. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342526