K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) 
packaged bank  account (PBA) in August 2012 by Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax 
(Halifax).
She says she was not offered a fee free account  and believed she had no choice but to pay 
for banking.
background
Miss K opened the URCA after she decided to transfer from another mainstream bank, 
where she says she had held a fee free account. She says she was told that she would have 
to pay for an account if she wanted  to have her salary  paid into it. In August 2012,  the URCA 
cost at most  £15 per month  (or £10 if the account  holder deposited £1,000  or more  each 
month) and came with a range of benefits. The key ones were worldwide travel  insurance; 
breakdown cover; mobile phone insurance;  home emergency cover; and a fee free overdraft  
up to £300.
When Miss K complained  to Halifax, it didnt accept that it had done  anything wrong when 
selling the account. So she brought her case  to this service. Having looked at all the 
evidence, the adjudicator  didnt think the URCA had been mis-sold, so didnt  uphold  her 
complaint. Miss K doesnt accept that and has asked an ombudsman to look at her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to the sale of 
packaged bank  accounts on our website,  which everyone can read. Ive kept this approach 
in mind when considering  what  to do about Miss Ks case, and, having  done so, Im not 
upholding it. Ill explain why.
Was Miss K given a fair choice?
Miss K says she was told that she had to pay for an account if she wanted to have her salary 
paid in, and that she wasnt offered a free account by Halifax. She hasnt explained  why she 
would have found that plausible, given she says shed held a free account with another 
mainstream bank. She says she didnt know what Halifax offered, as opposed to her 
previous account.  But I think  it is common knowledge that free banking is widely available  
from mainstream banks in the UK.
More importantly, Halifax has provided  me with an Interview Summary  Document,  along  
with the account terms and conditions signed by Miss K in branch in August 2012. The 
Interview Summary Document sets out how Miss K wanted to have an overdraft of £100; 
save some  money; and have an account to pay in her income.  It notes that she said she 
went on holiday; travelled regularly by car; and had a mobile phone.  It also says that the 
advisor in branch highlighted a free account  a Reward Current  Account  but that she:
did not want to explore our full range  of accounts  andwould like to benefit from a 
£5 monthly reward payment for funding [her] account with £1000
It then says that Miss K chose the URCA because she wanted  a higher level of cover
Ref: DRN29150542I accept that Miss K is telling me her sincerely  held beliefs,  but the only evidence  I have that 
she was lied to by the Halifax advisor is what she is telling me. And both her history and the 
documentation from the time of the sale dont support that. So, on balance, I conclude that 
she knew she didnt have  to pay for an account, but chose to take the URCA because she 
was attracted to the benefits.
Was the URCA a reasonable fit for Miss Ks circumstances, and did Halifax  give her the 
information she needed about it?
Halifax says it didnt  recommend the account to Miss K  Miss K says it did. I dont need  to 
make a finding on that point as it doesnt  make any difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. Either way, the benefits of the account  look to have been useable  by, and 
potentially useful to, Miss K at the time.  She agrees that she travelled; drove a car; and had 
a mobile phone. I can see that she registered several handsets on the mobile phone 
insurance, as well as making at least one, maybe  two, claims. So she did use that benefit. 
Halifax says she enquired about  the travel insurance  after the sale, and that she tried to use 
the breakdown  cover.  Miss K disputes this last point, but that doesnt  change  anything, as 
she has accepted  that she travelled by car, and so could have found that benefit valuable.
I havent seen  enough evidence to allow me to reach  a finding that Halifax did give Miss K 
full information  about this PBA. But that doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold her 
complaint. I would additionally need to think that a lack of information has caused her to miss 
out  that is, that she wouldnt have agreed to the PBA if shed known more about it. That 
isnt the case  here. Miss K confirmed  that she has registered for and used some  of the 
benefits, and that she was aware  of the cost. I havent seen anything which leads me to 
conclude that if shed had more or better information  about  the PBA she would have 
declined to take it. So she hasnt lost out.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Halifax  doesnt need  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915054