K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained that Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in March 2000.  
background
One of our adjudicators provided  a view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But Capital One has 
already agreed  to pay some money back to Mr B for the commission  it received. Mr B still 
also thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about the mis-sale.
Mr B couldnt remember much about the sale. However, I can see he actually filled in and 
signed a postal application  for his credit  card and the PPI.
There were two clear options to choose  from on the application form, depending  on whether 
or not Mr B wanted to have PPI with his new card. Mr B ticked the yes box and left the no 
box blank. So I think this shows  he wanted to have this type of policy. I also think Mr Bs 
credit card statements would have showed the PPI being charged on his account.  So to me, 
these things show Mr B chose the PPI himself and would have also been able to see it had 
been set up for him.
This wasnt an advised  sale and it was for him to decide for himself  what he wanted to do. 
Capital One had a responsibility to provide clear information.
Its possible Capital One could have explained  the policy in more detail than it did although  
I can see right next to where Mr B made his PPI choice he was directed to another  section of 
the form which explained more about  the policy. And even if I accept  more  could have been 
done by Capital One, Im afraid  I dont  think this makes any difference to my decision.
This is because I think Mr B was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The PPI wouldve covered Mr B in the 
event of him being  unable  to work or losing his job and in the event of a successful claim the 
PPI wouldve  paid off 10% of his outstanding  credit card balance for up to a year.  This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  he had in place at the time.
I think Mr B would have only had moderate sick pay with his job. So although I cant  say why 
Mr B decided to buy this policy, I can see how it was of use to him and Id re-iterate  that as a 
postal sale, it was Mr Bs choice about  whether  or not he wanted  the cover. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but I dont think this policy was mis-sold. Which  means  Capital 
One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to him.
Ref: DRN29161352But it already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because  when the policy was 
sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)   so it should  have  told Mr B about that. Because  Capital One 
didnt tell him, that was unfair.  To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that offer 
is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But my understanding  is that Capital One (Europe) plc has now paid back to Mr B the 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916135