K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Bs credit  card account when he applied for the card in person at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form which  Mr B signed. It included  a box 
to select if he wished  to take PPI. Theres an x in this box. Its true that the x appears 
to be printed. But I think its more likely than not that the box was marked after a 
discussion between Mr B and the adviser.  And I see he didnt select  card protection,  
which was also available. Whats  more, the reference to PPI and the marked box are 
reasonably clear and prominent on the form. So even if PPI had been added  without 
Mr Bs previous agreement, I dont think its likely hed have failed to notice this before he 
signed the form.
Taking everything into account,  I think it would have been clear  to Mr B that the PPI was 
optional. And I think he chose to take it  although I can understand why he may no 
longer remember this.
I think its likely that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr B. That means it had a 
responsibility to check  that it was suitable  for him. But it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr Bs told us he was only entitled  to statutory sick pay from his employer at the time. 
And hes told us he didnt have much  in the way of savings  that he could have  used to 
make his monthly credit card repayments.  So I think  he could have struggled to make  his 
credit card repayments fairly quickly if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job. The policy 
would have helped with Mr Bs monthly credit card payments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim for accident or sickness, and for up to 10 months per successful claim 
for unemployment.  Whats more,  it would have paid out in addition  to any payments Mr B 
received from his employer. So he could have  used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses. 
Taking  everything  into account, I think the policy could  have  been  useful for Mr B. And 
since he was paying for it monthly,  he could have cancelled it at any time, without further 
cost if he changed  his mind, or if his circumstances changed.
Ref: DRN24741432Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have wanted this 
type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten this, so many years later. He wasnt  
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, unusual working 
arrangements or existing  medical  conditions).  The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I think its unlikely Mr B would have made  a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  On balance I think hed still have  taken out the 
policy.
Ive taken into account all Mr Bs comments,  including what hes said about not having been 
told he could source PPI elsewhere at a lower cost.  But Halifax  wasnt obliged  to tell Mr B 
about products  that might  have been  available from other providers. 
Mr Bs representatives have also suggested that Mr B would have felt pressured  into taking 
the PPI. But while I accept that its likely that Halifax recommended  the cover to Mr B, 
pressure is a different  matter. Mr Bs told us he cant remember  how the PPI was sold to 
him. And I dont think its likely that his memory  of the sale is particularly clear,  given  that it 
took place so many years  ago. Without  more  detailed evidence, I cant  fairly conclude  that 
its more likely than not Mr B was pressured  into taking the PPI. So these points  dont 
change my conclusion  that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think thats  fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) doesnt  have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr B any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2474143