K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ks representative is unhappy with the premiums Mrs K has paid during the time she 
had a home insurance policy  from Halifax General  Insurance Services  Limited.
background
Mrs K took out separate buildings and contents insurance through  a branch  of Halifax  at the 
same time that she applied for her mortgage  in 1998. But in 2004  this policy was cancelled  
for reasons unknown,  and she took a combined  buildings and contents policy with Halifax  
General Insurance Services Limited.
Mrs K was required by the terms of her mortgage  to insure  her property, but she didnt have 
to take a Halifax insurance policy. At the time the bank offered only one type of policy  
through its branch. But over the years,  the banks group companies also offered other types 
of policy  online or over the telephone.
Weve been told that Mrs K trusted Halifax to provide her with a competitive quote at the 
start and then each year the policy renewed  after. Mrs Ks representative says this didnt 
happen. Shes shocked to see that in 2016  Mrs K was charged £820.90 when she was able 
to get a suitable policy for £180  elsewhere. She believes  that what  Mrs K was paying was 
excessive and that Halifax  took advantage of a vulnerable  customer. She also says that 
Mrs Ks property had been incorrectly insured as a brick-built house,  when it shouldve been  
insured as timber  and brick. Mrs Ks representative  also says that the policy  was unsuitable 
for Mrs Ks needs as it had unlimited cover  which wasnt required.  
Halifax responded  to the complaint to say that it didnt think  it had done anything wrong. The 
policy the branch  had sold her was the only one available  to its advisers at the time. It said 
that it had pointed out in renewal documentation that it had other  policies  available and that 
customers could call up to get a quote for those.
Before this complaint came  to me for decision, Halifax made an offer to Mrs K to settle the 
complaint. It offered to refund a proportion of the premiums totalling  £1,463.67, add interest 
at 8% simple  a year and pay £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused.  Our 
investigator reviewed that offer and she thought the offer was fair.
Mrs Ks representative doesnt agree with the amount being refunded  and has requested  an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should  have cost. I would be, in 
effect determining or telling a business  how it should operate   and thats  not my role. But I 
can look at whether Halifax has treated  Mrs K fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. And Id need  to consider whether what  Halifax  has offered is sufficient to 
put right any unfairness
We know that Mrs K had a policy from 1998, and she changed it to this policy in 2004.  When 
Mrs K took out her policy in 2004,  it cost £298.08  for the year. I understand there was likely  
Ref: DRN29216642to have been an introductory discount on this price. This isnt uncommon and policies may 
well initially  be priced lower to attract new customers. I dont  think  its unfair  for an insurer  to 
seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years.
By 2007, Mrs Ks policy had gone  up in cost. But it looks  like Mrs K contacted Halifax at 
renewal in 2008 and received a discount.  But the premium had risen sharply again by 2010, 
and from what I can see there  was no further  contact  about the premium  until 2015  when 
another discount was received. 
So, it looks like Mrs K was aware she could  change cover, as she changed the policy  type in 
2004. She combined her buildings and contents into one policy.  And it appears Mrs K was 
happy with the cover provided and the cost at this time.
But it appears that after Mrs K engaged in 2008, she didnt further engage with Halifax about 
the renewal quotes she was given until 2015,  and her premium  continued to increase each 
year. 
If I thought Halifax should  have realised Mrs K wasnt the type of person who shopped 
around for cheaper insurance  regularly, and I thought it increased the price just because 
Mrs K didnt engage at renewal, that wouldnt be fair. But I dont need to make a finding  on 
that point in this complaint, as Halifax has now offered to refund  some of the insurance 
premiums Mrs K paid and I think that offer is fair.
The offer its made  is to refund £1,463.67. This is the difference  between what Mrs K paid in 
2010 and what she paid over the subsequent  years.  Halifax  has also offered Mrs K 
additional compensation for her being  out of pocket (which  will be set at 8% simple interest  
per year) and £200 for the trouble caused. 
Mrs K thinks that her compensation should be a lot higher. And thats because  of the recent 
prices shes  paid.  Mrs Ks representative  suggests  that if her insurance  should have been 
around £256 per year, then Mrs K has been  overcharged by approximately £4,500 over the 
years she held the policy. Mrs Ks representative thinks the refund should start sooner into 
the pricing journey. 
But the price  that Mrs K is now paying for her insurance would have included a new 
customer discount. As I have explained above,  this is common  practice and I think its fair 
that an insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent years. I dont think its fair to 
expect an insurer to maintain that discount  for the duration someone  has their policy.  
So it wouldnt be fair for Halifax to use the quotes Mrs K obtained  when working out its offer.  
And Mrs K, in working out what she thinks her compensation should be, has also taken into 
account the policys whole duration. I dont think thats quite right,  Ill explain  why. 
In those  earlier years of the policy, Halifax was recouping the initial discount  applied  to the 
policy. Also, Halifax wouldnt have known  in the early years each time Mrs K held her policy  
that she wasnt  the type of person to shop around  for cheaper insurance. That wouldnt have 
become apparent for some years. With the policy taken in 2004, Mrs K did engage  and 
ended up getting  a discount in 2008.  Given this, I cant say that Halifax  had unfairly 
increased the price  at renewal, just because Mrs K didnt engage, between 2004  and 2008. 
Ref: DRN29216643So, I wouldnt expect  Halifax to be paying back  some of the cost of the insurance  from the 
start of the policy as Mrs K thinks should happen.  Im also mindful that Mrs K agreed to the 
insurance cost when  she took out the insurance  at the outset in 2004. And Im also mindful  
that she engaged and received a discount in 2008. But its possible Halifax  should have 
realised at some point between 2009  and 2015  that Mrs K wasnt  shopping around. And if it 
took advantage  of that, Id expect it to pay compensation. Here Halifax  has made  an offer as 
set out above,  and I think that more  than compensates  Mrs K for anything that might  have 
gone wrong.
Mrs Ks representative also says that the policy was unsuitable and it was mis-sold. The 
policy had unlimited  cover and Mrs Ks representative feels  that this wasnt the right policy  
for Mrs Ks needs. She lives in a small house and wouldnt require unlimited cover 
But I dont think the policy was mis-sold. When Mrs K took out her mortgage,  she needed 
home insurance cover. And the bank  made it clear in the mortgage  offer that she didnt have 
to take out its product. The original  mortgage application  says if you DO NOT want us to 
arrange for your building to be insured, you MUST  arrange your own cover. So Im satisfied 
this was made clear. 
And I dont agree  that the policy was unsuitable.  Halifax  has confirmed that when it offers  an 
unlimited sum insured product, the cover provided, and the premium charged is not based 
on the customer having an unlimited amount of possessions or property size. Instead they 
make their own assessment of the insurance risk and calculate a premium  based on this 
risk, using information provided during the sales journey. The information used relates to the 
insured property - details  such  as the property address,  year the property was built,  number 
of bedrooms  and type of property are key in forming  this view, and these are the details 
captured through the sales process. Halifax has said one of the reasons they choose to offer 
a product with unlimited cover is to provide  customers with peace of mind  that they will be 
fully covered in the event of a claim.  This is because customers  may not know the accurate 
rebuild costs of their house or the likely value of their contents. So, by having  unlimited cover 
in place, there is more  scope that if Mrs K made  a claim she wouldve been  fully covered.
Mrs Ks representative  has also raised concerns  about how the information in relation to the 
building materials was recorded. She says the house is recorded  as a brick build, whilst its 
actually built using timber  and brick. Shes  concerned that Mrs K was incorrectly  insured and 
wouldnt have been  covered in the event of a claim. But Ive looked at the original policy  
application from 1998 and I can see the question  was whether the house is built with brick, 
stone or concrete.  There is no mention of timber. So, this question  was answered correctly. 
Further to this, Mrs K made a number of claims during the lifetime of the policy. So, I think  
its likely there wouldve been  no issues in the event  of any additional claims. So overall, Im 
satisfied she needed the policy, it was suitable, and she has benefitted from it.
In light of what Ive said above,  and having considered  Halifax offer, I think  its fair. It makes 
sure Mrs K hasnt lost out if Halifax did increase the price just because she didnt engage  at 
each renewal in the later years.
I also think  Halifax additional compensation offer of £200,  for the trouble caused  to Mrs K 
throughout her complaint is fair.
my final decision
Ref: DRN29216644For the reasons given above, Halifax General Insurance Services Limiteds offer to refund 
some of the costs of Mrs Ks policy is fair.
Halifax General Insurance  Services Limited should also calculate the additional 
compensation (set at 8% simple interest per year) owed to Mrs K for being out of pocket of 
that money.
Halifax General Insurance Services Limiteds additional compensation offer of £200  for the 
trouble caused  to Mrs K is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2921664