K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy sold by Anglian  Windows Ltd (Anglian) with 
a loan. Mr and Ms G thought the policy was miss-sold.
background
Mr and Ms G took out a loan to buy new windows in 2006 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy  to protect their repayments. Mr and Ms G told us the policy was added  without 
their consent. 
Anglian said the PPI policy wasnt miss-sold. And it said Mr and Ms G received a discount of 
£1000 because they took out the policy as part of a gold promotion. If Mr and Ms G didnt 
take out the policy, they wouldnt have received the discount. 
The cost of the policy was £621.11.  So, although Anglian didnt agree Mr and Ms Gs policy  
was miss-sold, it also suggested that even had Mr and Ms G been miss-sold, they were not 
disadvantaged by their sale. 
The adjudicator thought  the complaint should be upheld and Anglian disagreed. So it was 
passed to me to consider.  
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 27 August 2019, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr and Ms Gs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 27 September 2019. At the time of writing both parties told us that 
they had received the provisional  decision. Anglian said they had no further submissions  
they wished to make. Mr and Ms G acknowledged that they have received the provisional  
decision and at the time of writing I have received no further submission from them or any 
request for an extension. I consider that Mr and Ms G have had sufficient time to make a 
submission had they wanted to, so I am proceeding to my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Anglian hasnt been able to say what happened  during the sale as its salesman has left the 
business. But it has been able to provide some of the documents  that Mr and Ms G signed at 
the time.  Using those  documents, and Mr and Ms Gs recollections, Ive been able to say 
what I think most likely  happened.
Anglian said it sold the PPI on an advised  basis, so it had to make sure it was suitable for 
Mr and Ms G. But it also had to give Mr and Ms G information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading about the policy. But I dont  think it did. Under the terms of the PPI policy,  if 
Mr and Ms G paid off her loan early  the policy remained in force  and turned into an income 
Ref: DRN20285502protection policy. They could have cancelled  the policy and received a partial refund, but it 
wouldnt have been a pro-rata  refund. I cant see that Anglian ever told Mr and Ms G they 
could have received a refund or the terms of the refund.  So I think  this was a failing  in the 
way the PPI was sold. 
To work out what,  if anything, Anglian  needs to do to put things right,  I thought about what  I 
think Mr and Ms G would have done if the sale of PPI wasnt  flawed in the way it was. 
Anglian has said it offered  some  of its customers a discount on the price  of goods if they 
signed up to the gold  promotion. In Mr and Ms Gs case they signed a form titled YOUR 
PERSONAL ILLUSTRATION that set out what the gold  promotion meant  for them.  It said 
the agreed cash price  was £5,000,  but there was a gold promotion subsidy of £1,000, 
reducing the cash price  to £4,000.  And right below  this section it says:
Only cases over 120 months  including Payment Protection (18-74 years of age) 
qualify. You will not qualify for the Gold Promotion Price if you choose  not to proceed 
with your Anglian Gold Promotion Account. The full cash price will be payable.
This is illegible in the copy  of Mr and Ms Gs illustration. But Anglian has provided an 
anonymised version  from the same time and with the same document  reference.  So, I think  
it most  likely  that this was the wording on the form that Mr and Ms G signed. There  was also 
a section dealing  with PPI and it set out that the cost was £621.11.
 
So, even if better information  had been  provided to Mr and Ms G, I think  that theyd have  
bought the windows. Mr and Ms G chose to buy the windows on credit  with the PPI, so it 
seems most likely theyd have bought the windows  on credit  without  the PPI. Had they done 
so, Mr and Ms G would  have been  paying more for the windows than they would have by 
taking the PPI. So I dont think that Mr and Ms G have lost out as a result as of anything 
Anglian may have done wrong.
my provisional decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained  above, I currently intend not to uphold Mr and Ms Gs 
complaint against  Anglian Windows Ltd.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr and 
Ms Gs complaint about Anglian Windows Ltd.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms G 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 4 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2028550