K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  turned  down his 
request to reinstate his lapsed critical illness policy. 
background
Mr G took out an index linked life and critical illness policy with Aviva in 1998. The sum 
assured at that point in time was £130,000. 
Mr Gs policy  lapsed in August 2017, as premiums hadnt been paid since May 2017. Mr G 
contacted Aviva several times between July and September 2017 to discuss  reinstatement 
of the policy. Mr G was told that he would be asked  for information about his current health  if 
the policy was not reinstated within ninety  days  of the first missed premium. He was also told 
reinstatement of the policy would  be considered  up to thirteen months after the first missed 
premium. 
Mr G applied to Aviva to have his policy reinstated in May 2018. He told Aviva that he hadnt 
been able to pay his premiums the previous year because he was being blackmailed.  Aviva 
turned down Mr Gs application  to have his policy reinstated in June 2018.  This was because 
of changes in his health as Mr G was, unfortunately, diagnosed with a heart condition in 
April 2018.
Mr G complained to Aviva. Aviva responded in October 2018. It said the decision to turn 
down the policy reinstatement remained the same, that it was declined  because of changes  
to his health after the last premium was paid. Aviva  said it had received information from 
Mr Gs consultant but it used the date of diagnosis of Mr Gs condition  when considering  
Mr Gs application for reinstatement. It said it cant consider when a medical  condition  might 
have started. 
Aviva said that it knows Mr G said that not being able to pay the premiums  was outside of 
his control. Aviva said it had received information from the police but said any criminal 
investigation was outside of its remit. 
Mr G responded to Aviva and asked it to reopen  his complaint. He said Aviva had not 
understood how much financial duress  he was under. He said he was the victim of a crime 
and hadnt been able to pay priority  bills. 
Aviva responded again to Mr G in November 2018. It said the decision to turn down the 
reinstatement of the policy had been  correct. It said Mr G was made aware of the 
implications of not paying the premiums and only contacted Aviva  after he was diagnosed 
with a heart condition.  Aviva said it sympathises  with Mr Gs situation but it was his 
responsibility to maintain  the premiums on his policy.
Mr G was unhappy with the response from Aviva and complained to this service. He 
explained that he had been defrauded by a third party and felt this was an extenuating 
circumstance. He said he was prevented  from paying the premiums  by matters outside  of his 
control. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said Mr G informed Aviva in July 2017 
that he was being blackmailed by a third party  and couldnt afford to pay his premiums. She 
said Mr G was told by Aviva  that he would need to complete a medical questionnaire if he 
Ref: DRN20826252wanted to reinstate the policy after 90 days from the first missed premium.  Our investigator 
said Aviva  declined Mr Gs reinstatement  application  because  of the changes in Mr Gs 
health since the last paid premium. She said this is in line with the terms and conditions and 
the underwriting guidance shed seen,  so she was not going to ask Aviva to do anything 
else. 
Mr G was unhappy with the outcome and the complaint has come  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
Before I explain why, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all of the 
arguments and comments made,  Ive limited my response to the issues  I consider to be 
central to this complaint.  That is to say whether Aviva acted fairly when it turned down 
Mr Gs request to have his policy reinstated. And whether Aviva should  have given  
greater consideration to why Mr G says he could not afford  to pay the policy premiums. 
When Mr G contacted Aviva in September 2017, his policy  had already lapsed. He told 
Aviva he was being blackmailed  and was having  difficulty paying most household bills, 
including his critical illness policy premiums.  At this stage  Aviva provided him with 
information about how he could reinstate the policy at a later date and that any 
reinstatement after three months would need  to include a health declaration.  
I can see that Mr G feels his request  for reinstatement was declined  because of the amount 
of time that had passed since his policy lapsed, but this isnt the case. His request to 
reinstate was received within the time specified  in the policy terms. Aviva turned down his 
request to reinstate the policy because  it considered  there  was a material  change in his 
health.  
Ive looked at the policy terms  and conditions. These  say that if a policy  lapses because  
premiums have not been paid then the policy  can be reinstated  within  a period of twelve 
months from the date of lapse, subject to certain  conditions being met. One of these 
conditions is that no material change should have taken place relating to the risk involved 
since the lapse  of the policy.
Mr G was diagnosed  with a heart condition in April 2018 and this is what  Aviva have 
assessed as a material change. I can see that Mr Gs consultant  said he might  have  had 
symptoms of his heart condition for some  years prior to being diagnosed, based on the 
degree of the problem  now.  However,  when Mr G contacted Aviva in September  2017 he 
was told he would need to complete a health  declaration to reinstate the policy  he said he 
was in good health at the time. He later disclosed hed had a full medical check  up in 
December 2017,  which gave him a clean bill of health.
Whilst Mr Gs consultant  believes  Mr G has likely had his heart condition for a few years,  it 
doesnt appear he was symptomatic  there isnt any record of him seeking any medical  
attention for these  symptoms before April 2018.  At this point it appears his symptoms 
developed, leading to his diagnosis. For this reason, Im satisfied that it was fair for Aviva  to 
treat the diagnosis  in April 2018  as a material  change in Mr Gs health since the date of the 
Ref: DRN20826253last paid premium. And Im satisfied Aviva were  acting  fairly when it took this into 
consideration and turned  down Mr Gs request to have his policy reinstated.
I know that Mr G feels that Aviva should  have taken a more sympathetic approach given his 
circumstances, namely  that he couldnt pay his premiums because  he was being 
blackmailed. It may well be the case that Mr G was being blackmailed  by a third part (I 
havent looked into this) and this is the reason  why he couldnt pay his premiums.  And Mr G 
is now in a situation where he has been  diagnosed with a heart condition  but no longer has 
the benefit of a critical illness  policy.  
While I have sympathy for Mr Gs situation, there isnt a great deal Aviva can do if a 
customer is unable to pay premiums,  regardless of why they are unable to pay. And I could 
only ask Aviva to take a different course  of action  if I felt it had acted unfairly towards  Mr G. 
But Im satisfied that Aviva hasnt  acted unfairly. Aviva isnt responsible for the actions of the 
alleged blackmailer and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to compensate  Mr G for the actions of a 
third party. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Martina Ryan 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2082625