K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about his mortgage lender, The Mortgage Business  Plc (TMB).  Mr As
complaint has been brought  by his wife, Mrs A, acting as his representative.
Mr A complains that TMB:
1. mis-sold him a five year interest  rate product in 2006 that expired  in 2012. Mr A said
he was told when the fixed rate period expired  his mortgage would move on to a
tracker rate. Instead  his mortgage reverted  onto TMBs standard  variable rate (SVR).
2. didnt give him a more  competitive interest  rate on his mortgage from 2012 to 2016.
Mr A says he asked TMB  for a better interest  rate but it offered him nothing as it was
a closed book  lender.  Mr A later found  out that there was the chance to remortgage
within the Lloyds  banking group. Mr A thinks he should have been told about  this
opportunity before. If he had known about the chance to remortgage elsewhere before hed 
have cleared his mortgage arrears sooner.
3. applied arrears  management fees and other charges to his mortgage. Mr A
says these charges  have  been refunded now, but they should have been refunded
sooner.
4. gave him incorrect information when he tried to make an overpayment  to his
mortgage. It said it would only apply overpayments across all his mortgage  accounts
when it could have  allowed  him to only overpay his interest only mortgage  loan.
background
In 2005 Mr A took out an interest only mortgage for around £350,000 with TMB over a 
20 year term.  Mr A took out the mortgage having  met with a broker. In December 2006 Mr 
A took out a five year fixed rate of 5.79% when his previous interest  rate product expired.
In June 2012 Mr As mortgage reverted onto TMBs  SVR.  Mr A says he had been told his 
mortgage would go onto a tracker rate when his fixed  rate expired. He recalls asking TMB 
about this in 2006 and checking with it that his mortgage would track Bank of England base 
rate once the fixed rate expired. This is the reversionary arrangement hed had when he 
first took out the mortgage in 2005.
Between 2012 and 2015 Mr A struggled with his mortgage payments. At one point he 
reached mortgage arrears  of around  £17,000. In November 2015  Mr A made  an 
overpayment to the mortgage of around  £60,000 which cleared the arrears.
In 2017 Mr A says he found out that he could apply to remortgage elsewhere within the 
Lloyds banking group.  He moved his mortgage to Bank of Scotland  Plc, and he got a new 
interest rate product  which has significantly reduced  his mortgage payments.
Mr A complained to TMB in late 2017.  Mr A complains that hes been charged too much 
interest on his mortgage since  2012  on TMBs SVR, and that he should  have been given 
access to lower interest rates within the Lloyds banking group before. Mr As queried the 
fees and charges that had been  applied to his mortgage when he was in financial 
difficulty. And Mr A is unhappy that TMB gave him unclear information about making 
overpayments to his mortgage.
Ref: DRN29550402On 9 November  2017 TMB  issued a final response  to Mr As complaint. It agreed that it 
hadnt given Mr A the correct information  about  making overpayments  to his mortgage  and 
gave him £200  for the upset caused.  It didnt uphold  the remaining parts of the complaint.
Mr A was dissatisfied with TMBs  response and referred the matter  to us.
TMB wouldnt give its consent for us to look at the sale of Mr As mortgage product in 
December 2006  and what had been  explained  to him at the time. It said this issue  had been 
brought to us too late. I issued a jurisdiction decision on 12 December 2019 that said why 
we arent  able to look at the first part of Mr As complaint, about the sale of a mortgage 
product in 2006. 
Our investigator looked at the merits of the remaining parts  of Mr As complaint and thought  
Mr As complaint should be upheld. Her view was that TMB  should  have made Mr A aware 
of its specialist remortgage team, in January 2016 when  he was no longer in arrears. TMB 
sent Mr A a letter confirming his new monthly payment following him making a large one off 
payment to the mortgage. But the letter  didnt  tell Mr A about  the possibility of switching to 
another active lender within the group and that by doing so he could  get access to a lower  
rate of interest. Our investigator thought interest  should be refunded and that a payment of 
£300 should be made as compensation for the upset caused.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators  view. He felt further interest  should  be refunded.
TMB didnt agree with our investigators  view either. It didnt  think it should be expected  to 
refund any interest  to Mr A as it said he hadnt asked for a new interest rate product during 
the period in which hed been out of arrears until 2017. Mr A and TMB asked  that an 
ombudsman look at the matter again.
my second  provisional decision
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint.
On 18 June 2020 I issued a second  provisional decision. In it I explained to both parties why 
I thought the part of this complaint about fair access to an interest  rate (numbered point 2 
above) should  be upheld.  I also set out what I thought needed to happen now to resolve this 
part of the complaint.
In summary  Id reached a different conclusion on this part of the complaint having listened to 
further call recordings of discussions  between Mr and Mrs A and TMB that had been  shared 
with us. Mrs A had asked  that I listen to specific call recordings, of which only some  were 
available. 
In one call recording on 9 May 2015 Mrs A had said to TMB I know  that you dont offer any 
new products. Mrs A went  on to say that she was working on her credit score  in the hope 
that theyll be able to remortgage  Mr As mortgage  elsewhere, with another lender, in order  
to get on to a lower interest rate. 
At no point  in that call did TMB correct Mrs A, or say that interest  rate products might be 
available to Mr A if he explored  getting  a mortgage with another active  firm (offering new 
rates) within  the Lloyds banking group. This was something that could  have been  an option 
for Mr A, through its specialist remortgage  team. 
Ref: DRN29550403Having listened  to the further evidence, I was persuaded that TMB could, and should, have 
done more to tell Mr and Mrs A that it had a specialist  remortgage team.  And in the specific  
circumstances of this case,  it had the opportunity to tell Mr and Mrs A in at least one phone 
call about the possibility of them being able to remortgage within  the Lloyds banking group. 
Mrs A directly raised  the issue of available interest  rates and made it clear to TMB that she 
understood Mr A would have to remortgage elsewhere to get access to any new interest rate 
products. TMB  did not correct her or tell her otherwise.
TMB has explained that before any customer would be accepted to transfer over to Bank  of 
Scotland, they would  have needed to be up to date with their mortgage first.
It was only once Mr A sold his other property, and repaid around £60,000 to this interest  only 
mortgage, that he cleared his arrears. From  this point in November 2015, having got up to 
date with the mortgage, Mr A became eligible for a specialist  remortgage. And I thought  that 
if Mr A had known it was an option,  he would have had access  to new interest rate products 
at this point too. 
I thought it was fair that TMB  now rework  Mr As mortgage as if he had taken out the most 
competitive interest  rate available to him (according to his loan to value and overall risk 
profile) once he cleared the arrears  in late 2015. I also said it should  be left for Mr A to 
decide if he wishes the overpayment of interest  from 2015 to 2017 to be refunded to him 
plus interest at 8% simple,  or whether hed like to use the opportunity to reduce his current  
mortgage balance,  now with Bank  of Scotland. 
Mrs A had argued that she thought  the refund of interest should go further back to 2014. Mrs 
A had said that Mr A could have raised  funds through other means  and cleared the 
mortgage arrears sooner  if hed known there was a possibility of remortgaging and getting 
access to a better rate of interest. 
Whilst I could see the argument that Mrs A makes, I thought it unlikely that Mr A had chosen  
to operate his mortgage in arrears  that grew  to such a significant  level because  he didnt 
have the incentive of a new interest rate product. I thought it should be motivation enough 
that Mr A would want to stay with the agreed terms of his mortgage contract with TMB. I also 
thought it would have been  a further incentive that Mr A had the possibility of potentially  
moving his mortgage  to other lenders to get access to more  attractive terms if he was able to 
get up to date with his mortgage. 
Mrs As previously  explained that Mr A had suffered serious financial difficulty,  due to 
changes with his employment. This had clearly been a very difficult time for Mr A. But I 
thought there would have been  few options open  to Mr A at the time. 
The wider  circumstances  of this complaint suggested to me that it was only once  Mr A sold 
his other  property in 2015 that his difficulties making  payments to the TMB mortgage  were 
sorted out. I didnt think it necessarily followed that if Mr A had been told sooner about the 
specialist remortgaging team then he would have been  able to clear his arrears  earlier.
TMB confirmed it had already paid Mr A the £200  compensation  awarded  for the trouble  and 
upset caused  by its earlier mistake in giving Mr A incorrect information about  making 
overpayments to his mortgage. I thought further compensation should now be awarded for 
the inconvenience and upset caused to Mr A by him not getting access to a more 
competitive interest  rate sooner. I thought it would be reasonable for a further £500 to be 
awarded to Mr A for the impact that TMBs  actions had on Mr A from 2015  to 2017.
Ref: DRN29550404arrears management  fees
In my first provisional decision  I said TMB  had agreed to refund all arrears  management  fees 
that had been applied  to Mr As mortgage  between January 2009 and January 2016  as part 
of a wider remediation exercise. TMB said it had also reworked the mortgage to adjust for 
any overpayment made for these  charges  and paid 8% interest on any amount refunded.  
It didnt appear that any specific investigation  into the running of the mortgage or whether 
these charges were  applied fairly  has been  carried out. Instead TMB decided to refund all 
charges. The refund  and compensation offered by TMB were what I would typically expect to 
see in such a remediation  exercise. If the fees and charges had been unfairly applied  Id be 
asking TMB to do what it had already done.  I thought what TMB had set out here seemed 
fair and reasonable to settle this part of the complaint. 
overpayments to the mortgage
Mr A had been given  incorrect  information  about making an overpayment  to his mortgage.  
He was incorrectly told that payments had to be spread  across  all mortgage subaccounts 
when they can actually be directed to certain  sub accounts. Mr A had wanted his 
overpayment to be directed to his interest only sub account. TMB had admitted its error, 
apologised to Mr A and it upheld this part of the complaint. It had already paid Mr A £200 in 
recognition of this misinformation and it had recalculated the mortgage  as if all the 
overpayment had been made  to the interest only account from the start. I considered  that 
payment and recalculation of the mortgage was fair and reasonable to settle  this part of the 
complaint.
responses to my second provisional  decision
TMB replied  to say it accepted my second provisional decision.  It said it could have been 
clearer about eligibility for interest rate products when specific enquiries  were made. TMB  
agreed to the redress that I set out in my second provisional decision.
Mrs A replied to say she doesnt accept that TMB  cant find all the call recordings that shes  
asked us to listen  to. Mrs A said calls from May 2014 are important and she considers that 
interest should be refunded from this date. Mrs A says it was in May 2014  that an 
arrangement to repay the arrears  was set up and that informed how we determined  to pay 
off the arrears and obstructed our access to a lower  interest rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs A is frustrated that all the call recordings shes asked us to listen to are no 
longer available. TMB has said the call recordings  from 2014  cannot be traced, but I have 
been able to see the call notes that record some of those  discussions between Mr and Mrs A 
and TMB at the time. I dont think there is anything sinister in the fact that the call recordings 
from 2014 arent now available. I merely think it reflects the time that has passed  since the 
calls were made.
Ref: DRN29550405The call notes from 2014 reflect the setting up of a payment arrangement, by which Mr A 
was going to try to meet his contractual monthly  payment plus an extra amount towards the 
arrears. Mrs A has said that those discussions to set up a payment plan informed how she 
and Mr A chose to pay off their arrears. Mrs A has argued previously that if she had known 
there might be a way to remortgage and become eligible for another  interest  rate product 
sooner then Mr A would have cleared his mortgage  arrears sooner.
As Ive said in my previous provisional  findings, Im not persuaded by this argument. Ive 
thought carefully  about whether TMB informing Mr and Mrs A about the option to remortgage  
through their specialist  team  in 2014 would have  made a difference here, and Im not 
persuaded that it would  have. I dont think Mr A would  have  chosen  to be in breach of his 
mortgage agreement  and to fall behind  with his payments because he didnt have an 
enticement of getting a better interest  rate deal. And I dont think its clear that if Mr A had 
known there  was a possibility  of remortgaging elsewhere in the group then he either could 
have, or would have,  got up to date with his mortgage sooner. 
Im satisfied that due to the nature of Mr As work  and other  factors  specific to his financial 
situation, hed fallen behind with his mortgage  payments. The arrears did reach a level of 
around £17,000. It was once Mr A sold a second property and made a significant 
overpayment to this mortgage that he managed to stay up to date with the mortgage 
payments. I think it is only at this point  that he became eligible to remortgage  through TMBs 
specialist remortgaging offer. And I think its fair that a lower interest, reflecting the reduced  
risk Mr As mortgage presented from then on, is made available  to him now.  
This final decision ratifies the findings made  in my second provisional decision,  and the 
redress that I set out in that decision remains unchanged.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Mortgage Business Plc.  
I direct  The Mortgage  Business  Plc to do the following to settle the matter: 
Rework Mr As mortgage as if he had been  given access to a new interest rate 
product with Bank of Scotland via its Specialist Remortgaging Team  as soon as he 
became eligible (having  cleared  his mortgage arrears in November 2015); 
Mr A should have the option of having  this overpayment of interest  refunded to him 
plus simple annual  interest of 8%*, running from the date he made overpayments of 
interest to date of refund,  or use the overpayment of interest  to reduce his current  
mortgage balance;
Pay Mr A £500 of further  compensation, in addition to the £200 already paid to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, or Mrs A on 
his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before  6 September 2020.
Emma Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN29550406* If The Mortgage  Business Plc considers it should deduct income  tax from the 8% interest element of 
my award, if applicable, it may do so. But it should give Mr A the necessary  paperwork,  if he asks for 
it, so that he can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN2955040