K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral)  placed  
on his car, following a claim on his motor  insurance policy.  
background
Mr B made a claim after his car was damaged while it was parked. Admiral gave his car a 
market value of £5,530,  which they paid directly to his finance  company. Mr B was liable for 
the shortfall and has had to pay this to the finance  company  himself.   
Mr B says his car was worth more than £5,530,  so he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into the case,  and considered what  the motor  trade  guides  said 
about Mr Bs car. On that basis, he thought Admiral hadnt offered a fair value for Mr Bs car, 
because theyd disregarded one of the trade  guides value, and not included  values from all 
four guides  which  we use. So he recommended the complaint be upheld.  
Admiral disagreed with this so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain  why. 
Its not the Financial  Ombudsman Services role to decide the valuation of a vehicle. Our role 
is to look at whether  an insurer  has decided on their valuation  in a fair and reasonable way. 
When doing this, we pay particular attention to the various trade guides used for valuing 
cars. We think  these guides allow us to see the fair value of a car. This is because theyre 
based on extensive nation-wide research of actual sales  prices  - not advertised prices,  which  
are usually inflated for negotiation purposes. The value each guide gives is an average,  and 
the average takes into account cars selling at higher and lower prices.
Admiral used three trade guides when looking at Mr Bs claim. When  looking into this 
complaint, our investigator  found a different figure from one of the guides. This was because 
he obtained it directly, rather than through one of the other guides. I agree the valuations  
should be taken  directly from each trade guide  so I think  its fair and reasonable that 
Admiral should use the figure obtained  directly.  
Admiral have only used  three guides  when valuing Mr Bs car. Our approach  to issues  
evolves over time. I think its now generally  well known within  the industry that weve also 
started to use a fourth  trade  guide.  And its named on our website along with the others. 
Our investigator looked up the valuation from the fourth guide when coming to his opinion.  
This figure came up as in between the valuations from the other  guides.  As this fourth guide 
is an established part of our approach  and in this case was also in line with the other  trade 
guides, I see no reason  for it to be disregarded by Admiral when coming to a fair and 
reasonable valuation of Mr Bs car. 
Admiral say the valuation  from one guide is out of line with the valuations from the others. 
On that basis, they think it should be disregarded  before they calculate  the average value 
Ref: DRN24462202across the trade guides. I disagree. The difference  is £359  higher  than the next valuation 
down. In relation  to the overall value of the Mr Bs car, I dont think this is a significant  
enough difference for it to be disregarded. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its fair or reasonable for Admiral to have 
disregarded one of the valuations or to have used values obtained second hand.  I also think 
its fair for the fourth trade guides figure to be taken into account.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should:
use the valuation  figures obtained directly from each of the four trade guides; 
pay the difference between the average of the four trade  guides  and the £5,530 
theyve already paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  per annum on the above amount, calculated  from the date 
the claim was initially  settled to the date this additional amount is paid.
This award  should  be paid to the finance company which financed Mr Bs car, unless Mr B 
can provide evidence to show he has cleared the shortfall himself   in which  case  the award 
should be paid directly to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2446220