K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Claim  Hunters Ltd (Claim Hunters) are charging  a success fee for a 
claim she didnt give them authority to deal with.
background
Claim Hunters say following an online enquiry  made by Miss C in December 2017, they 
received a signed authority form from her. Miss C says she never provided her signature  on 
the authority form.
The authority form gave Claim Hunters permission to make  a complaint on behalf of Miss C 
about payment  protection insurance (PPI) taken out with Lender L. The authority form 
included the terms  and conditions which explained that if Miss Cs claim was successful, 
Claim Hunters would  charge 25% plus VAT on any payment received. 
Claim Hunters contacted  Lender L to ask if Miss C had had PPI through accounts held with 
them. Lender L confirmed she had, and so Claim Hunters contacted Miss C to request some  
more information  to support her claim. Claim Hunters have provided case notes showing 
approximately 90 contacts  were  made  to Miss C through text and calls.
Claim Hunters say as Miss C didnt respond, they used the authority that had previously  
been provided in December  2017 to forward the claim to Lender L. Lender L upheld  the 
claim, and so Claim Hunters sent their invoice to Miss C.  
Miss C complained to Claim Hunters  saying she hadnt given them authority, and the claim 
was made  without her consent. Claim Hunters didnt agree to waive  their invoice, and so 
Miss C brought  her complaint to the Legal Ombudsman for investigation. 
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies.
The investigator found that Claim  Hunters  had acted  reasonably in making the claim, and 
charging their invoice. Miss C disagreed, saying that the signature on the authority form isnt 
hers, and shes had no contact from Claim Hunters apart from their invoice, and an authority 
form with her signature on it. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been  passed to me 
for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Miss C. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings,  
and I wont be recommending compensation for this complaint. I can understand this is likely 
to come as a disappointment  to Miss C but I hope  my findings go some  way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision.   
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. I 
dont doubt that what  Miss C has told me is how she remembers  it. I can appreciate it 
Ref: DRN20784012mustve been upsetting  for Miss C to hear about  a claim, and receive an invoice, when she 
feels strongly she hadnt given permission for Claim Hunters to act on her behalf. 
Claim Hunters have provided a screenshot of the details  they recorded  about Miss C in 
December 2017.  This includes  her email address and mobile number. Theyve  said this 
information was provided at the same time Miss C made her online enquiry. Ive seen that 
both these contact  details match the information Miss C has given to this service. So I think  
its fair to say that they belong to Miss C. 
Claim Hunters have provided case notes  showing approximately  90 contacts were made to 
Miss C through  text and calls in trying to reach  her from April to August 2018.  I cant say 
whether Miss C received these communications, but given Claim Hunters held the correct  
details for Miss C, I think  its more likely than not that these contacts were made. 
It doesnt seem like Miss C provided a new authority to Claim Hunters in August 2018, and 
instead Claim Hunters used the authority they already  had on file from December 2017 to 
send the claim to Lender L. I can understand why Miss C feels like she didnt authorise the 
claim, given  the time passed  from the authority form signed in December 2017, to the 
successful claim  in January 2019.  But Ive seen that Claim Hunters were provided with 
authority to represent  Miss C in 2017, and this was used to send the claim to Lender L. 
Miss C says the signature on the authority form is not hers, and so she shouldnt have to pay 
the success fee. I cant verify whether the signature  on the authority form belongs to Miss C. 
But I think it would be unreasonable to say that the success fee should  be waived, when 
Claim Hunters have provided an authority from which was accepted by Lender  L, and 
resulted in a successful outcome for Miss C.   
The authority form was received by Claim Hunters, and accepted by Lender L. The claim 
was successful because  of work Claim Hunters did. The terms and conditions explained that 
Claim Hunters would  charge 25% plus VAT in the event of a successful claim. As Miss Cs 
claim was successful I think  Claim Hunters  have acted in line with the terms and conditions 
by charging Miss C their success  fee. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2078401