K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr F was given  two loan by Loans2Go in July and December  2016.
The first loan taken  in July 2016 was for £300. The second loan taken in December 2016 
was for £1,000.  I understand both loans were  due to be repaid over 18 months and that both 
loans are now closed.   
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans2Go should 
have provided  Mr F with either of the loans and she asked the lender to put things right.  
Loans2Go said it accepted the adjudicators  findings  for loan 2 but it didnt agree with her 
assessment for loan 1, and it asked for the matter to be passed  to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable  and irresponsible  lending  on our website and 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr F irresponsibly. 
The lender  was required to carry out a borrower  focussed  assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower  focussed  so Loans2Go had to think  about  
whether repaying  the loan sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences  for 
Mr F. 
Loans2Go had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able repay his loans sustainably.  There was no set list of checks that Loans2Go 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers  overall 
financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate  check ought generally  to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for any particular application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
Ref: DRN28586692this in mind when thinking about  whether Loans2Go  did what it needed to before agreeing  to 
give the first loan to Mr F.
There is limited  information about  what happened when Mr F took either of his loans from 
Loans2Go. This is understandable given  the amount of time that has passed.  But I have 
considered what  information  I do have about this matter when coming  to my decision.
Loans2Go says it asked Mr F for information about his income  and expenditure and it carried 
out some  credit checks before agreeing his first loan in July 2016.  Loans2Go  has also told 
us that it requested bank statements from Mr F as evidence of his income  and expenditure. 
Loans2Go thinks its checks were  reasonable and proportionate  given  that the loan was 
relatively small in relation  to Mr Fs income.
However, I dont think its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks  I would expect it 
to respond appropriately to the information it found. 
Mr F has provided  us with copies of his bank statements  for the period leading  up to his 
application to Loans2Go. Given what Loans2Go  has told about the checks  it carried  out at 
the time,  it seems likely that it saw at least some  of this information.  I can see from Mr Fs 
statements that he was regularly borrowing from at least  three  other short-term lenders at 
the time. So I think that Loans2Go are likely to have  been aware that Mr F might  be having 
difficulties managing his finances and was already committed to repaying  other  short-term  
lending.
In its Final Response Letter, Loans2Go told Mr F that it had verified his monthly income as 
£1,370 and his expenditure, including credit  commitments, as £1,157.  Loans2Go said it also 
added a buffer of £80 to Mr Fs expenditure to account for any fluctuations  in income and 
expenditure and even  after which it thinks his contractual loan repayment of about £67 would 
have been affordable.
I appreciate that Loans2Go had included a calculation of £80 additional expenditure as a 
buffer. I also accept that Mr F was only applying for £300 and on the face of it he had just 
enough disposable income  available  to meet the repayments.  But  this was still an expensive  
loan on its own terms, repayable over a long period. I think  Loans2Go  ought  reasonably  to 
have been aware  from having seen Mr Fs bank statements  that, given he was already 
borrowing from short-term lenders, he was most likely borrowing to repay other lending, and 
that on balance,  it was likely he was over committed financially and the loan was unlikely to 
be affordable. I think Loans2Go  ought  reasonably to have  realised that Mr F might  struggle 
to maintain his loan repayments over the full 18-month term in a sustainable manner. So it 
ought reasonably  to have concluded that it was not appropriate  to lend to him.
Loans2Go has told us that Mr F said he wanted  to purchase a laptop at the time and that its 
loan was assisting  him in this vital requirement.  It also says it would  not be unreasonable to 
expect that some of his expenses would be shared by his partner as Mr F had agreed on his 
application. Ive thought  carefully about what Loans2Go has told us. But I think  it was 
important for Loans2Go to establish  that Mr F could meet his repayments  sustainably over 
an extended period. As Ive explained,  on balance I think Loan2Go ought reasonably to have 
concluded that Mr F wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay his loan. And Ive not seen 
any evidence to confirm  what expenses Mr F did share with his partner at the time. Overall, I 
dont think Loans2Go  should have provided  the first loan to Mr F.
Ref: DRN28586693Loans2Go has already accepted the adjudicators  findings that it shouldnt  have provided the 
second loan to Mr F. So I dont need  to consider this any further except for what  needs  to 
happen next.
Putting things  right
I think it is fair and reasonable that Mr F to have repaid the principal amount that he 
borrowed, because  hes had the benefit of that lending.  But he has paid interest and charges 
on loans that shouldnt have been  provided to him. So I think Mr F has lost out and 
Loans2Go should put things right for him.
Loans2Go should:
Calculate the total amount of money  Mr F received as a result of having been given 
the loans. The repayments Mr F made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr F having paid more than he received,  then any overpayments  
should be refunded along with 8% simple  interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were  made until the date of settlement*).
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go  to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go  
should give Mr F a certificate  showing how much  tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Loans2Go Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2858669