K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that issues with TSB Bank  plcs IT system limited  access  to her bank 
account and led her to see someone elses personal information.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT systems. As a result of this many of its 
customers were  unable  to access accounts  online or over the phone.  Some customers were  
also unable  to use their bank cards to pay for things or payments  for their direct debit 
wouldnt go out as they shouldve.
Miss K said she was unable to access her online banking for two weeks once  TSBs  systems 
crashed. She explained because of this, she missed three  days of college and two exams  
trying to get things sorted out.
Miss K also said she had access to someone  elses details when she tried to login to her 
online banking. She also found out that someone  elses telephone details had been added  to 
her contact information when she visited in branch.
Miss K complained to TSB in branch and it offered her £78 to cover her call costs as she 
said shed been  on the phone to them  for 780 minutes. She brought her complaint  to our 
service in May 2018 as she was unhappy with this offer.  She wanted compensation for the 
worry and stress this had caused her and for TSB to pay her £500  to cover her call costs. 
Miss Ks complaint was looked  into by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt 
recommend TSB pay any further compensation. The investigator explained that from the 
evidence TSB provided, Miss K had been able to use her account as she normally did in that 
she accessed her online  banking and made bank transfers in the week  after the IT systems  
went down. She also explained  that Miss K had initially  accepted  £78 to cover  her call costs  
for spending 780 minutes on the phone  and that shed seen no evidence  to show Miss K had 
spent £500 on calls. 
Miss K wasnt happy with the outcome reached. She felt the evidence  shed provided was 
sufficient to support  the time shed invested  in speaking with TSB. She added  she felt shed 
been treated really  poorly by TSB.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this will come  as a disappointment 
to Miss K but Im not going to ask TSB to do anything more. Ill explain  why. 
TSB provided us with a screen shot from its system to show when Miss K logged into her 
online banking, as well as bank  statements.  The system shows  Miss K successfully  logged  
into her online banking  everyday between 23 April and 1 May 2018 with the exception  of 30 
April. I can see, from Miss Ks bank statement, she made online bank transfers  on 23, 24 
and 27 April and 1 May 2018.  Theres  further  activity on the account showing Miss K made 
faster payments  during  this time.  The fact Miss K was able to do bank transfers successfully 
shows me she was able to complete transactions on her account and access  her online 
banking. As such,  whilst there may have  been  issues with logging  in, Im satisfied Miss K 
Ref: DRN24632082was able to do so and complete transactions. So I cant agree that the IT issues  had an 
impact on the way in which Miss K could use her account. 
Miss K provided us with evidence to show  the calls she made  and the costs shes  incurred. 
Having reviewed this, it doesnt  detail how much  she wouldve been charged for each call. 
TSB did agree, however,  to pay £78 to cover the 780 minutes Miss K said she spent on the 
phone with it. Miss K hasnt been able to provide  conclusive  evidence  to show  she spent 
£500 on calls to TSB. Given this, I am not satisfied that the calls cost £500. 
Miss K said she could see someone  elses details when she tried to log into her online 
banking. Miss K also said she saw someone  elses contact details when she visited  in 
branch. There is nothing to suggest  Miss Ks own personal information  was shared with 
someone else, nor that she had logged onto her online banking at the time this glitch  was 
known to occur. As such, I dont think TSB need  to do anything  further to put things right.  
Taking all of the circumstances of this case into account, I wont  be asking TSB to offer any 
compensation or offer £500. I think the £78 TSB has paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not intend  to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2463208