K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments from his account 
which he says he didnt  authorise.  Hes also unhappy that NatWest  wont return  money 
which was paid into his account. And it then decided to close his account.  
Background
Mr A had a current account with NatWest. He says that between 24 and 27 December 2017  
cash withdrawals, point  of sale transactions and bank transfers were carried  out without his 
knowledge or consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are aware  of which  transactions  
are in dispute. And I can see that the timeline of events and how the transactions  were made 
have been comprehensively covered with Mr A by our investigator. 
On 24 December 2017, £92,650 was paid into Mr As account.  More than £80,000 was then 
spent, withdrawn in cash  and transferred to another account over the following three  days.
On 27 December 2017, NatWest were  contacted  by another bank, which I will refer to as 
bank B, who said their customer did not authorise  the payment of £92,650  into Mr As 
account. NatWest then closed Mr As account.
Mr A complained to NatWest and said he hadnt  authorised the transactions.  And said 
NatWest should  have contacted him about  the transactions. NatWest investigated Mr As 
fraud claim  and concluded  that the payments had been made by him or by someone else 
with Mr As authority. NatWest said Mr A had received fraudulent funds into his account  and 
that it had closed his account in line with the terms and conditions.
Unhappy with this response Mr A brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into Mr As complaint and asked him some more questions  about the activity on his 
account. Mr A initially told the investigator that he had lost his bank cards and mobile phone 
on 23 December 2017 along with a piece of paper which had his PIN written on it. And that 
hed contacted NatWest on 27 December 2017 to report the loss. Hes also said he only 
become aware  of the large  credit being paid into his account and transactions in January 
2018.
Mr A subsequently told the investigator  that he only found out about the £92,650 being paid 
into his account  when he looked at his bank statements. And he explained that he had given 
his bank card and PIN to someone hed met in July 2017 in order  to obtain a loan. Mr A 
suspected it was this individual who had carried  out the disputed  transactions on his 
account. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. In summary, she thought that it was most 
likely the transactions  had been  carried out by someone known to Mr A and someone  who 
knew his PIN. So, our investigator concluded Mr A had failed with intent to look after his 
security details. The investigator also said NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it 
closed Mr As account. 
Mr A disagreed. He maintains he never made  the disputed transactions.  And wants all the 
money refunded  to him. He also wants  NatWest to explain why it closed his account. As no 
agreement could be reached the matter  has come to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN26913602My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence that Mr As genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. And from what Ive seen, I dont think  its unreasonable for 
NatWest to conclude  he failed with intent to look after his security details. I say this because:
Mr As genuine card has been  used with the correct PIN
Mr A reported his bank card as lost to NatWest  on 27 December 2017 which was 
after the transactions were made
Mr A has provided different explanations  about how someone else was able to gain 
access to his account
Mr A has said he gave  his card and PIN to a third party and hasnt provided  a 
plausible explanation for why he did so
Mr A was regularly checking  his bank account via online banking  prior to the 
fraudulent funds being credited to his account. And during the period of the disputed 
transactions. So, its likely he would have been  aware of all the activity on his 
account
funds were transferred to another bank account on 27 December 2017 via online 
mobile banking.  And Mr A hasnt provided any evidence how a third party  would be 
aware of his online banking information in order to carry  out this transaction
NatWest contact notes show it called Mr A on 26 December 2017  and the customer  
confirmed the transactions were genuine 
its clear from the evidence provided  by bank B that its customer had been  the victim 
of a scam and Mr As account received £92,650  of fraudulent funds. More than 
£80,000 of these funds was spent  over two days.  So, if a fraudster had managed to 
establish such a scam,  I cant  see why they would  then arrange  for the money to be 
sent to Mr A if they had no prospect of being  able to recover  it. The only way theyd 
be able to gain access to it would be if Mr A sent it onto them or somehow gave them 
access to his account
of course, I cant rule out the possibility that Mr A has been  merely nave here.  And 
hes been the victim of a scam  himself. But hes provided conflicting and extremely  
limited information about the payment into his account. In short, the evidence  points 
to it being more likely than not that Mr A knows more about the payment of fraudulent  
funds into his account and the subsequent  activity on his account than he has been 
prepared to tell us or NatWest
In summary,  I think its unlikely that whoever  made the payments had the card without Mr As 
knowledge. And I think its likely that Mr A told them what the PIN was. I say this because  
theres no plausible explanation for how someone  else would have known this information.  
So, I think Mr A has failed  with intent to look after his security  details. And hes breached  the 
terms and conditions of his account.  It follows that NatWest is entitled to hold Mr A liable for 
the disputed transactions. 
account closure and return  of funds
Ref: DRN26913603Its not in dispute  that the funds paid into Mr As account on 24 December 2017 were  
fraudulent  in other words the money wasnt his in the first place. So regardless of what 
Mr A says,  wants  or believes hes not entitled  to the money which was paid into his account. 
Ive also kept in mind  that at the time the money was paid in; Mr A had a total of 38p in his 
account. And regardless of whether he authorised the transactions, it wasnt his money  
which was spent. So, hes not out of pocket. And I wont  be asking NatWest  to return  any 
money to him. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr As account  confirm  NatWest can close Mr As account 
immediately under certain circumstances. I believe, considering  what  happened in this case, 
its fair and reasonable NatWest took the action it did. I can also see that NatWest wrote to 
Mr A to let him know it was closing his account. So, Im satisfied NatWest  hasnt done 
anything wrong  when it closed the account. And I wont be asking NatWest  to reopen his 
account. NatWest also isnt obliged to provide Mr A with an explanation for its decision.  So, I 
cant say NatWest has done anything wrong by not giving him this information. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2691360