K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the increases on her home insurance policy premiums, held with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2020.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. Broadly summarised,  I 
didnt uphold  Mrs Cs complaint as I hadnt  seen anything to suggest  that StAIP had treated 
her unfairly.
StAIP confirmed it had received the provisional  decision and didnt have anything  further  to 
add.
Mrs C responded to my provisional findings.  Mrs C said overall, she didnt agree with my 
findings regarding  the premiums increasing over the years but accepted my decision on that 
aspect.  
But Mrs C felt strongly that with her health condition more should have been done for her. 
Mrs C considered if StAIP werent  informed of her health condition  by Bank H then the fault 
lay with Bank H. As the policy was on Bank H branded paper and Mrs C only had contact 
with Bank  H, Mrs C says more should  have been done for her. 
Mrs C says she told Bank H about her health  condition and that she couldnt call regularly  or 
shop around and was led to believe that everything  would have been taken care of  
including her Bank H branded home  insurance.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs C has explained that while  she doesnt agree with my provisional findings  on the whole, 
she is willing  to accept  them  and wants this service to focus  on what  happened  when she 
told Bank H about her health condition.
Having reviewed Mrs Cs responses  and further  comments, Ive seen nothing  to change my 
provisional findings, I havent seen  anything to suggest that StAIP had treated her unfairly. 
But I think it would be helpful  to set out what I have and havent  considered  again.
Mrs Cs complaint originally was about her premium increasing over the years. As StAIP  
were the underwriter/insurer  they were responsible for setting  the price  each  year. So the 
complaint needed to be set up against StAIP. 
I looked to see what had happened over the years  and to see whether StAIP had treated  
Mrs C unfairly.  
StAIP had explained  that when Mrs C took out her policy in 2009 it included  an introductory  
discount. And StAIP explained  the gradual  increases  in the premiums  each year were due 
Ref: DRN24804102to the initial  discount being recouped  and the increases  in IPT. The increases each year 
were to bring  the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated  with insuring Mrs Cs 
property. 
StAIP also pointed out that by 2016  it still hadnt fully recouped the discount that had been  
initially applied.
So there were reasons  for Mrs Cs home insurance  cost going up from 2009 to 2016. 
Importantly, I didnt  think the cost going  up was because Mrs C wasnt engaging with the 
cost of the policy at each  renewal.
Mrs C has said that more  should have been done  for her given the health condition she 
suffers from. Mrs C attributes  this to Bank H not informing StAIP. But within this decision,  I 
could only look at what StAIP could  have done  for her and whether it treated her fairly.  
StAIPs records show that it wasnt informed  by Bank H of any different requirements. But 
from the time she took out her policy,  and all the way up until 2016, StAIP were still 
recouping the initial  discount it had applied. So it was offering Mrs C home insurance for less 
than the true cost associated with insuring  her property. I considered that it would have  been  
unrealistic to expect StAIP, because Mrs C couldnt contact it yearly (of which it wasnt 
aware), to freeze her price   which at that time would have been at a discounted rate  and 
not at the true cost.  
Overall, Ive concluded that StAIP  wouldnt  have  frozen Mrs Cs policy at a rate less than the 
true cost of her providing her insurance.  And StAIP would  have  been  fair to increase the cost 
even if StAIP  knew about Mrs Cs condition  as it had to increase the price to a level to cover 
the insured risk  the same thing that it needed  to do for all its customers.  
I understand that Mrs C wishes to pursue  a complaint about Bank H. I also see why she 
would see that what she told Bank  H and StAIP is essentially the same  they are both part 
of the same  banking group. But they are different businesses and responsible for different 
things, so I cant consider  her complaint  about  what she told Bank H as part of this decision.
But in terms  of bringing the matter against StAIP to a formal  conclusion, I am of the opinion  
that, StAIP even  if it was aware of Mrs Cs condition, couldnt have done anything differently  
in terms of the cost of the policy. At the time Mrs C suffered from her condition, StAIP  wasnt 
increasing the premiums  unfairly. It was increasing  the premiums  to bring the cost of the 
policy up to the true cost it associated with insuring  Mrs Cs property.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ref: DRN24804103Matthew Horner
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN24804104Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the increases on her home insurance policy  premiums, held with St Andrews  
Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
In November 2009, Mrs C took out a home insurance  policy through  her bank (Bank  H), but the policy 
was underwritten by a different business, StAIP. It provided Mrs C with buildings and contents  
insurance cover.  The contents  insurance also included  accidental damage cover and had specified 
items cover. Mrs Cs home insurance policy also included legal expenses cover.
Mrs Cs policy initially cost £424.21 for the year. The policys cost increased over the years and in 
November 2016 Mrs Cs annual premium  was £699.78.
In July 2017  Mrs C complained to StAIP  about the cost of her policy. This was because  she found  out 
her parents were  paying  a lot less for their insurance, even though they lived close by, held a similar 
policy from the same insurer and with similar  cover, but were paying  around £500 less. Mrs C 
considered she had been  overcharged over the years. 
StAIP provided an alternative  quote for a new insurance  policy which came in at around £300. Mrs C 
cancelled her existing policy and ended up taking out the alternative  insurance policy that StAIP 
offered her. 
Because of the difference in cost Mrs C remained unhappy. Mrs C says she doesnt think she had 
been treated  fairly  and considered StAIP had taken advantage of her by unfairly increasing the cost of 
the existing policy every year. 
She says she was charged too much and should be reimbursed for the extra she considered she had 
paid over the years.  Mrs C also remained unhappy that her new policy was around £80 higher than 
her parents policy.
StAIP looked into Mrs Cs concerns. It said that the premiums Mrs C was charged over the years were  
correct. It also explained that part of the reason for the increase  was because  the insurance premium 
tax (IPT)  increased,  which  was outside of its control. StAIP also offered Mrs C £50, which was for 
the level of service  she received in making  her complaint.
Mrs C didnt accept the amount, and unhappy with StAIPs overall response,  Mrs C referred the 
matter to our service. 
Two investigators reviewed  Mrs Cs complaint.  In both reviews, our investigators considered Mrs C 
hadnt been treated unfairly and StAIP hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mrs C disagreed,  and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence  and arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont  uphold  the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, so 
Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN24804105what cant I look at?
First, I would like to make  it clear  that I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its insurance 
should cost. I would  be, in effect, determining  or telling  a business how it should operate  and thats 
not my role. Each  underwriter works out for itself the amount  it needs  to charge to cover the level of 
risk its prepared to take on. And thats a matter for each business  to work out for itself.
what can I look at?
But I can look at whether StAIP  has treated Mrs C fairly  during the time she held her policy. 
Its not unusual for the cost of an insurance  policy  to change at each renewal. And there can be 
several, legitimate reasons  for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a consumer doesnt  
stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage  with the renewal process  or shop  around can find they are 
paying much  more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong  by changing the premium at renewal but where  it 
knew, or ought reasonably  to have known, the consumer  wasnt engaging with the renewals process, 
it should  have taken care to make sure it treated these consumers fairly   and that it didnt take 
advantage of the consumers  behaviour  by increasing their premiums just because someone wasnt 
engaging. 
So Ive looked into the policy  Mrs C held with StAIP  to see what happened.
Mrs Cs policy 
StAIP has explained that when Mrs C took out her policy  in 2009 it included an introductory  discount. 
It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy  at a lower cost than the true cost associated  
with the risk of insuring  a property. This is to attract  new customers. Insurers aim to keep the 
consumer and recoup  that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this is unfair. 
StAIP says the gradual increases in the premiums  each year were  due to the initial discount being 
recouped and the increases  in IPT. It says the increases  each year were to bring the policys  cost up 
to the true cost of the risk associated  with insuring Mrs Cs property, alongside the levels  of cover  
provided, under  the policy Mrs C had taken out. 
StAIP has also shown  that by 2016  it still hadnt fully recouped  the discount  that had been initially  
applied.
So there were reasons  for Mrs Cs home insurance cost going up from 2009 to 2016. Importantly, I 
dont think the cost going  up was because Mrs C wasnt engaging with the cost of the policy  at each 
renewal.
Mrs C thinks  because she ended up getting a cheaper policy, this shows  she was overcharged. I 
appreciate Mrs C cancelled her policy and obtained a much cheaper policy with StAIP. But this 
doesnt mean  StAIP had been overcharging  her. Insurers use different pricing and risk models over 
time, so a policy taken out some time ago wont be priced  the same way as a different product taken  
out many years later. 
Also, the new insurance she got with StAIP would have been heavily  discounted  too. As I have 
explained above, I think it's fair that an insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent years. I 
dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount  for the duration someone has their 
policy. So the new policy Mrs C obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is likely  to increase in price  as 
well.
So I dont think it is fair to compare the policy Mrs C initially took out with the revised insurance  
product StAIP  introduced many years  later.
Ref: DRN24804106Mrs C has used her parents  policy  as a comparison  to support her argument that StAIP was 
overcharging her. Mrs C provided her parents policy schedule from 2017. I do understand why Mrs C 
has used her parents  policy as a comparison but Im also mindful that within this decision I can only 
look at Mrs Cs complaint about her policy and whether StAIP treated her fairly under that policy. 
However what I would add, based on the information provided, is that Mrs Cs parents  policy was a 
different product to the policy  she had. StAIP introduced a new insurance product in 2016, which is 
the policy  her parents had. So Mrs Cs parents appear to have switched  to this product fairly soon 
after it became available. And despite the close  proximity between the two properties, ultimately it is a 
different (newer) policy providing  cover for a different property. 
So for those reasons, I dont think it would be fair use Mrs Cs parents policy  as a comparison to Mrs 
Cs existing policy. 
I also note that Mrs C is unhappy that her new insurance is more  expensive  than her parents home  
insurance. As explained  above, ultimately, they are different properties  with their own risks. And as I 
mentioned earlier, I cant tell an insurer what its perception of risk should  be or what it should  charge  
for one property against  another.  So I cant comment on Mrs Cs parents policy or speculate  as to 
why it is more expensive than her policy. There could  be a number of underwriting  reasons for StAIP 
charging what  it charged. But importantly  this complaint  is about Mrs Cs policy   and not Mrs Cs 
parents policy. 
StAIPs new policy 
While StAIP introduced  a new insurance product,  Im mindful that StAIP  wasnt a broker   whose 
obligations might be to shop  around  each  year for its consumers. StAIP provided  an insurance  policy 
 and many  years later introduced another product   that was different to its existing one. Theres  no 
requirement for StAIP to automatically switch  its existing  customer  base on to the new policy  
indeed, this might not be right for all customers.
Also, StAIPs  new insurance product only became available in 2016. There are now rules  (that were  
introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should, in the renewal invitation, encourage  their customers to 
shop around  if theyve  had their policy  for a number  of years. These rules didnt exist when StAIPs 
alternative policy became available in 2016 and even  if they had, they dont go as far as to say 
insurers need  to tell their customers about alternative products.
So I dont think StAIP needed to tell Mrs C about the new product when  it was introduced in 2016.
But Im happy to see that in 2017, when Mrs C did engage with StAIP  about the cost and sought  to 
get a better  deal, she was provided  with and ended up taking the new insurance product StAIP  were 
offering at that time. That is what I would have expected to have happened, given the rules that StAIP 
must follow.
Mrs Cs concerns that she was unable to shop around
 
Mrs C has said that fairly soon after taking out the policy  she suffered from (and still suffers from)  a 
serious medical condition which stopped her from being able to work. Mrs C has said that the 
condition was extremely debilitating and stopped her from shopping around for the best deal every 
year. 
It appears Mrs C told her bank about her condition  when it first occurred,  as the account 
Mrs C held with her bank (Bank H) had a requirement  that she needed to pay a certain  amount in 
each month  to get the additional benefit  the account provided. But I cant see that the insurer, StAIP 
was ever made aware. I can certainly see why Mrs C thought  her insurer  would have been aware of 
her condition  as she told Bank  H and her insurance  policy was branded with its name. But the price of 
her policy was set by StAIP and I cant see that it was made  aware of the information given to Bank H. 
Ref: DRN24804107And although Bank H and StAIP are linked businesses as they are part of the same group  of 
companies, they are separate legal  entities and Im not sure they share  consumer  contact information.   
Importantly though,  even if StAIP had been made aware  that Mrs C was unable to engage,  I dont see 
what StAIP would have or could have done differently for her. I say this because the policy  taken  out 
in 2009 included an introductory discount. So StAIP had offered home insurance to Mrs C for less 
than the cost of the true risk it associated with her property at that time. Had it been made  aware of 
Mrs Cs circumstance, I think it is unrealistic to expect StAIP  to freeze her price and then maintain it at 
that discounted  level,  never seeking to recoup the initial customer discount  that would mean it would  
have to provide her long-term insurance  at a rate it thought was loss making.  Additionally, the nature 
of insurance and the ever-changing risk and perception of cost based on that risk means  that the cost 
of insurance is never static or set.
Mrs Cs policys cost going  forward
There has been some  confusion  about Mrs Cs ongoing cost of her home  insurance. For clarity, StAIP 
has confirmed that Mrs Cs premium isnt frozen, and Mrs C needs to contact StAIP with each renewal 
to see what price it can offer her going forward.
 
Its important to remember the new policy Mrs C took also out included an introductory  discount which 
StAIP will aim to recoup.  StAIP are aware of Mrs C condition now,  and while it cant  freeze her cost 
indefinitely for the reasons  Ive explained earlier, it has explained that Mrs C can contact it each year.  
That seems  fair. 
If Mrs C has difficulty doing this herself, she should seek to obtain a representative  that could assist 
her. Typically annual renewal notices  are sent around 30 days  prior to the renewal date. If Mrs C 
needs more time to get assistance in shopping around, she can contact StAIP to see if it would be 
willing to send  her the renewal documents even earlier if it helps alleviates  any pressure.
compensation for service received
I note that StAIP offered  Mrs C £50 for the service she received in making  her complaint.  It is up to 
Mrs C to decide whether  she wishes to accept that amount. If Mrs C does accept it, she can let me 
know in response to this provisional decision.
my provisional  decision
As it stands,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2480410