K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Lloyds Bank  PLC displays  the statement narrative when he 
takes out cash at his local branch.
background
Mr M has had his account with Lloyds  for a considerable  number of years.  When he 
withdraws cash from his account, the statement narrative  doesnt appear as he thinks  it 
should. He says what appears is confusing and irritating. He says it should  display  the full 
name of the bank  and branch to avoid any confusion.
Mr M complained about this to Lloyds. It thanked him for the feedback  but said it couldnt do 
anything to change  the way his cash withdrawals appeared on statements.
Mr M remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said, in 
summary, if Lloyds had decided it couldnt  make the changes he suggested,  this was a 
commercial decision it was entitled to make. She went on to explain she couldnt oblige it to 
comply with his suggestion.
Mr M asked  an ombudsman  to make a decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same decision  as the investigator  and for similar  reasons. Ill explain my reasoning.
When requesting a decision, Mr M also asked for various  additional questions  to be 
answered. These related to the reasons why Lloyds couldnt make the changes,  the 
commercial viability of various options they might pursue  and the perceived impact  on 
Lloyds credibility  if it didnt make the changes. 
My role at this service  is to resolve  disputes  quickly and with minimal  formality. I would also 
look to put consumers back in the position  they would have been if they experienced loss or 
detriment as a consequence of a financial business doing something wrong. While Ive 
considered everything  Mr M has said, Ill only comment on those things I consider relevant to 
the outcome of the complaint.
I acknowledge Mr M finds  the narrative on his statements  irritating and confusing. I certainly 
understand that the first time he saw the narrative it wouldnt have been immediately clear 
what the transaction related to. But I do have to consider that, having  established what it 
was, it wouldnt have  been confusing the next time he saw it. 
Lloyds decision not to make the changes Mr M has suggested is an exercise  of its 
commercial judgement. In reaching  my decision Ive balanced this commercial decision and 
the business needs with the impact on Mr M of what hes complaining  about.  Ive also noted 
theres no suggestion the issue  has caused Mr M a financial loss. Overall,  I dont  think hes 
been treated unfairly. 
While I understand Mr M would prefer the information to be displayed in a particular way, I 
dont think its fair to require Lloyds to change its systems to accommodate  his preference.  
So, in summary,  I wont be upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN25299952my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2529995