K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the delays he says he incurred during Barclays Bank UK PLCs  
(Barclays) transfer of his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP)  to a new provider. He says 
hes not been able to invest  his cash or trade in international  equities  following Barclays  
decision to change platforms. He wants Barclays to compensate him for the lost opportunity 
to trade  in international stocks and for the interest  he lost on his cash  during the delays.
background
Mr S had a SIPP with Barclays which held various  international equities. In May 2017  
Barclays said it would be migrating to a new platform from August 2017 and could no longer 
offer the facility  to trade or hold non-UK  assets  within a SIPP. With regards to the non-UK 
holdings it offered two options.
To sell the assets and transfer  the cash to Barclays  main platform  or to another 
provider.
To transfer the assets in-specie to another, acceptable provider. 
So Mr S decided to transfer his SIPP  account elsewhere. He began the transfer process  in 
August 2017 but says Barclays only instigated the transfer in November 2017. Mr S says 
various delays occurred and it wasnt until June 2018 and then fully in September 2018 that 
his UK stocks and cash were transferred to the new provider. His international stocks  
remained within a holding account until they were  eventually  transferred in April 2019.
In March 2018 Mr S complained to Barclays about  the delays in transferring his SIPP. 
Barclays acknowledged that the process had taken longer than the 12 weeks in which  it 
hoped to complete  such a transfer.  It explained the issues it had with all the various  parts of 
Mr Ss transfer and offered £400 as compensation for the delays.
Mr S then complained that the residual  cash and stock that hadnt been  transferred took 
longer than the 10 days Barclays  had said it would take  and that hed been charged  
additional SIPP fees during this time. Barclays apologised for the delays and said Mr S had 
been provided with incorrect  timescales and information. It arranged  for the previous fees 
incurred to be refunded to his new account  along  with the residual cash. It also offered a 
further £50 as compensation. 
Mr S remained unhappy  with the service hed received. But Barclays  while confirming it 
hadnt received  an instruction from the new provider to transfer the remaining international 
stocks offered a further £50 in compensation, as it said Mr S would now have to make a new 
request to transfer  the non-UK equities. Mr S remained unhappy about the overall  transfer 
and brought his complaint  to us. He made the following  points in summary of the issues  hed 
experienced:
He started the transfer process in August 2017 but it still hadnt completed by 
November 2018.
Hed been informed  that his international stock  hadnt been  placed onto the platform  
and he had to go through  a time-consuming process to apply for it to be transferred. 
He said this was an internal  problem for Barclays which  shouldnt  have involved him 
or the new provider.
The international stock wasnt transferred within the timescale  Barclays  gave and 
Mr S was then told by Barclays hed been  given incorrect information and it had been 
transferred. But he discovered  this wasnt the case and complained again to Barclays  
Ref: DRN20056882who accepted  it was still holding the stock in a separate  account. His new provider 
had to write to Barclays to initiate the transfer of this stock.
Hed had to pay fees for two separate SIPP accounts during this time.
He hadnt  been able to trade  in international equities for around one and a half years.
He hadnt  been able to invest any of the cash within  the SIPP as it couldnt be 
transferred until the whole process was completed.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ss complaint and said it should be upheld. He 
thought that Barclays had been responsible for some significant delays in the transfer 
process and had caused Mr S a significant amount  of trouble and upset.  He said Barclays  
should pay a further £500 compensation (giving a total of £1,000), as well as interest  on the 
cash fund for the period from 12 weeks after the transfer was instigated until it was 
eventually transferred to Mr Ss provider. He also said Barclays should  refund any charges 
that were applied to its SIPP beyond that 12 week timescale.  
Mr S didnt agree. In response he made the following  points:
Having noted  the additional  compensation, which now totalled £1,000 he didnt agree 
that was fair or reasonable.
He didnt agree that the initial delay was primarily due to the new provider. He noted  
problems hed also had contacting  Barclays during the first few weeks  and thought  
Barclays internal processes were mainly to blame.
From  August 2017  to April 2019 hed been unable to trade the SIPP assets at various 
points. He thought not having the ability to trade his SIPP  during this time amounted  
to a far greater loss than he been offered in compensation.
It has been suggested to him that if he took legal action against Barclays he would be 
awarded more compensation. He wanted us to look at a fairer  (mediated) settlement 
to resolve matters. He said Barclays should consider a counter offer of at least  
£2,000 from him to resolve the complaint.
Barclays accepted  the adjudicators assessment although it provided  further  evidence  to 
show that it didnt  receive  the transfer  request until November 2017. So the adjudicator 
revised his redress so that the interest on the cash fund was calculated  from 12 weeks after 
that point. 
Mr S accepted that but still thought that a period of 17 months  in total to transfer  the entire 
portfolio was a significant delay. He said hed also been paid compensation by the provider  
for its part in the transfer delays  which was significantly more than Barclays  final offer. So 
he thought Barclays  offer should be increased. But Barclays thought its offer was sufficient 
so as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  and for largely  the same reasons. Mr S has made a number of 
detailed points in support  of his complaint, which Ive read and considered. But I wont 
necessarily respond to every point  made   rather,  Ill concentrate on the crux of the issue.
In order to be clear, what Im considering here are the remaining issues around  Mr Ss 
inability to trade his international  equity  portfolio  until March 2019, and the fact that his cash 
wasnt transferred to the new provider until June 2018 who then said it couldnt be invested  
Ref: DRN20056883into the new plan until all the in-specie assets  had been transferred because it would delay 
the transfer.
The initial delay in starting the transfer  process 
Ive seen the transfer discharge form that Mr S signed in July 2017 to transfer his SIPP 
assets, in-specie,  away from Barclays. But the form was only signed by the receiving 
administrator on 9 November 2017. As this was the earliest that I would have expected 
Barclays to begin  the process   when it was formally  advised  of Mr Ss request  Im 
satisfied that Barclays  didnt delay the process  from July to November 2017 and I cant  
safely say Barclays did anything wrong during that time. 
The period  until the UK stocks and cash were  transferred in May/June 2018
Ive carefully considered  the relevant timelines from November 2017 until the UK stocks and 
remaining cash was transferred in 2018.  Ive looked  at the evidence  from all the parties  
involved. Barclays has said it would  expect to complete such  a transfer within  12 weeks 
(around mid-February 2018), so its clear the transfer took longer than it should have done. 
Barclays has acknowledged  that it should  have  done  better with this transfer overall  , but 
although its provided evidence to show that it wasnt  made  aware of a formal request to  
transfer until November  2017, it hasnt provided  a satisfactory explanation for why the 
transfer of cash took longer than the 12 weeks Barclays  expected  it to take.  
So, as Mr S wasnt able to use the cash  during  that time I agree with the adjudicator that 
Barclays should compensate Mr S by adding interest to his cash amount from the date the 
transfer should have completed until the time it was transferred to the new provider.  
The delay in transferring the international portfolio
When Barclays wrote to Mr S to explain that it could no longer support some  of the assets  he 
held (non-UK stocks)  in his SIPP,  it confirmed that he could either sell the assets  and hold 
them as cash in his SIPP, transfer  those assets affected to another  provider, or transfer his 
entire SIPP to another provider. It did ask him to confirm his instruction by 25 August 2017.
Unfortunately Mr S was unable to do this  although  he did advise Barclays of his intention 
to move his SIPP  elsewhere, as it was difficult for him to find another provider who would 
accept the assets.  So he didnt meet the deadline  that Barclays had set. This meant that 
Barclays had to transfer the assets from the platform to a separate holding  account. As a 
result they werent  included in the transfer and this only became apparent when Mr S saw 
they werent included in the stocks that had been transferred. 
Thereafter there were a number of other  issues which  meant Mr S had to chase up the 
transfer of those stocks  and also had to re-request that part of his transfer.
Barclays has said that it didnt receive a request  to transfer the non-UK stock from either the 
broker or new provider  during  this time.  Indeed it says an instruction wasnt received until 
December 2018  but even  then further  delays occurred because  of some miscommunication  
about the whereabouts of the stocks. But, even allowing for the lack of instruction from the 
receiving parties, I think Barclays ought to have had a better system in place  to make them 
aware that the stock was being held outside  of the platform especially as Mr S had made it 
aware that his non-UK  stock was to be included in the transfer. And it could have been much  
clearer in its in communication  with Mr S about the stocks whereabouts and what  was 
Ref: DRN20056884required to complete the transfer. I think the extra work needed to re-request the transfer of 
that stock would have had added  to Mr Ss overall distress and inconvenience.
But Mr S says the delays  meant his non-UK assets werent available  for investment during  
that time and he lost out on potential investment returns. The transfer  was carried  out in-
specie, which meant  that Mr P wasnt out of the market at any time - and therefore hasnt 
suffered any investment loss on those assets. But I have  considered  whether he did lose out 
on the opportunity  to invest  during  this time.  Theres no evidence  to show that Mr S 
attempted to make  any trades during the delay  Barclays has said that any sales  that were  
requested were considered on case by case basis. And there  nothing  to suggest Mr S 
showed concern  at being denied any such opportunities  until he discovered  the stock  hadnt 
been transferred.  
I have some sympathy for the position Mr S found himself in during this delay and Ive seen 
how strongly he feels about this matter.  And I dont dispute that he did actively  trade on his 
account outside of this time. But its difficult to conclude that he lost out on investment 
opportunities when theres no evidence of any investments  that he tried to make  at the time. 
The adjudicator recommended that Barclays pay Mr S £1,000 in total for the inconvenience 
caused by the delays  and Im satisfied that amount includes  fair and reasonable 
compensation for the loss of opportunity Mr S suffered as a result.
The further delay  in transferring the cash
Ive seen that Barclays sent the cash from Mr Ss SIPP to the new provider in 2018. But this 
wasnt transferred to the new plan until July 2019.  Mr S said he was told by the provider that 
it wouldnt transfer the cash until all the stocks had been fully transferred so as not to delay 
matters. 
Mr S says this meant he couldnt invest his cash for a further nine months  or so. But I dont 
think that Barclays can be held responsible  for that delay. Barclays made  the cash available 
to the new provider in June 2018, the fact that it wasnt  accepted until the whole transfer had 
completed wasnt its responsibility as this was a condition of the new provider. 
Im unaware of any regulatory requirement  that says a provider has to wait until a transfer 
has completed before it can accept  cash, so I think the new provider chose to adopt such  a 
policy and wasnt required to do so. And Mr S has now told us that the provider has 
accepted this to be the case and compensated him with a sum representing interest lost on 
the cash from June  2018 until July 2019.
In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for Mr S to be compensated twice for this lost interest 
so Im satisfied hes now as close to the position  he would be now be in had his cash been  
transferred when it should have been  first available. Mrs S says the amount of compensation 
hes received from the provider is far more than hes been offered  by Barclays.  But I note the 
interest period  hes received compensation for is longer than Barclays  has offered for its 
delay in transferring  the cash. In any case my role is to consider whether Barclays  offer is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, not to compare against any payments Mr S may 
have received from other parties.
Barclays has offered Mr S compensation of 8% simple interest on his cash  fund from a 
period of 12 weeks after the transfer  was first requested until the date that it transferred the 
cash to the new provider. In my view that offer is fair and reasonable because when added 
Ref: DRN20056885to the compensation Mr S has received from the provider I think  hes been compensated for 
the overall period of time he was unable to invest.
Summary including  the final compensation offer
Theres no dispute here that Mr Ss transfer  took longer than it should have done and that 
Barclays didnt provide Mr S with the kind of service  he was entitled to expect. The 
adjudicator recommended  that Barclays paid Mr S £1,000 for the impact the distress and 
inconvenience of the delays had on his retirement planning. He also said it should pay 
interest on the cash fund for the period  of February  to June 2018 in recognition of the date 
by which  the transfer ought to have completed. He also said that Barclays  should refund any 
charges that had been applied to Mr Ss SIPP while the delay continued  which Im satisfied 
that it has done. 
Barclays has acknowledged  its errors and described  Mr Ss transfer as a lengthy and poor 
experience overall . It agreed  to the total amount of redress recommended  by the 
adjudicator. 
As the transfer  was in-specie Mr S didnt suffer any financial loss from being out of the 
market at any point.  What he suffered was a delay  in transferring the various parts  of his 
SIPP and the loss of opportunity to trade his cash for an extended period and to trade in 
international equities  as Barclays had withdrawn from that market and delayed  his transfer 
so that he couldnt trade  with his new broker. 
But I dont think either of these matters  caused  the potential  losses  claimed  but rather a 
significant amount  of distress and inconvenience  for which  the recommended offer above 
has been made. Mr S has said the offer should be higher,  especially  when  considering the 
amount of compensation hes received from his provider. However, having carefully 
considered the matter  and taking everything  into account, I think this is a fair and reasonable 
offer for the impact  this has had on Mr S. I think the amount is within the range  of what Id 
expect to see for a delay  such  as this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Mr Ss complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Ive seen evidence  of the three payments it has already made to a total of £500. So Barclays  
Bank UK PLC should pay a further £500  to give a total of £1,000.  
Barclays should also pay Mr S 8% simple interest on the cash balance of £22,396.41  
between 2 February 2018 and 6 June 2018. (The date Barclays said it should  have 
transferred the cash by and the date it did actually transfer it.)
In respect of this:
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the relevant  amount  into Mr S's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldn't pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
Ref: DRN20056886If Barclays Bank UK PLC is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected  marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age which has been  confirmed as most likely a basic rate 
taxpayer, so the reduction would equal  the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Barclays  Bank UK PLC considers  
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr S how much its taken  off. Barclays Bank UK PLC should  also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005688