K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is complaining that Virgin  Money  plc (Virgin)  have  unclear  policies  about  when 
interest is charged on credit cards. She is also unhappy about  interest  charges on her 
account and levels of service provided.
background
Mrs B has a Virgin credit card with a 0% balance transfer rate. Mrs B says she believed  that 
any card purchases she made  wouldnt incur  interest either  so long as she paid those off in 
full every month. But Mrs B was charged  interest on card purchases which she believes is in 
error. When Mrs B contacted Virgin to discuss this, she says she was unhappy  with the 
overall level of service provided. 
Virgin say the 0% interest offer is for the balance transfer amount only and doesnt apply to 
other transactions made  on her credit card. Virgin point to the terms of the credit  card which  
says (in summary) they will not charge interest  on card purchases  and related fees as long 
as the full statement balance is paid.
As a gesture  of goodwill Virgin said they refunded some charges applied to Mrs Bs credit  
card. Virgin also said they acknowledged Mrs Bs points about level of service by providing 
feedback to the staff she spoke to and crediting  her account with £50 compensation.
Unhappy with Virgins response Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator  
looked at the complaint but decided that Virgin hadnt done anything  wrong in applying 
interest charges  to Mrs Bs account in line with their terms and conditions.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She raised a number of points  
including that she still feels the terms of her account are not clear enough and some are 
contradictory. She questions whether a vulnerable consumer would see the terms and 
conditions in the same way our investigator has. She also quotes the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contract Regulations  1999  (UTCCR)  in support of her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to how Virgin charges interest  this is specifically covered under para 7.2 where  it 
says We will not charge  interest on Card Purchases  and related  fees,  as long as you pay 
the full balance shown on your statement by the payment date. Otherwise, we will charge 
interest each day on all transactions and related fees, on unpaid  interest and on any other 
amounts, from the date they are added to your account until you pay them  off in full. 
I think these terms are clear. Unless the full balance shown on the statement is paid, Virgin 
will charge  interest on card purchases. And this is whats happened  in Mrs Bs case. I agree 
shes paid off her card purchases  in full each month. But as shes not paid her full balance, 
Virgin can charge  interest on the purchases  for every day she owed them  that money. 
I have listened  to three telephone calls between Mrs B and Virgin.  In one of them  Virgin 
clearly point out this paragraph to Mrs B and read it to her over the telephone. Mrs B again 
does not accept this, saying  as long as she makes  the minimum payment, together  with 
paying off any purchases  she has made since the last statement she should  not be charged 
Ref: DRN25793412interest. After reading the paragraph and listening to the calls, I am of the view that Virgins  
terms are clear on the interest  they will charge on Mrs Bs credit card.  Those charges have 
been correctly  and fairly applied.
Mrs B says we need to look at this from a consumers point of view and has raised a number  
of points for me to consider. She says that for her October 2018 statement she set her 
account to pay in full. But she only paid off her card purchases in full. Her full statement 
balance was significantly higher as it also included  her 0% promotional balance  transfer  As 
Mrs B has not paid off the full balance, her card purchases will attract interest as set out in 
her terms  and conditions. Her balance  transfer amount has never  incurred interest. So I 
dont think Virgin has acted unfairly.
Mrs B goes onto question whether a vulnerable consumer would read Virgins  terms and 
conditions in the same way as our investigator. My role is to decide whether Virgin has 
treated Mrs B fairly in the specific  circumstances of her case. Ive not seen any evidence in 
her case  of vulnerability and thus need  for Virgin to make suitable adjustments. 
Mrs B says she cannot see any terms and conditions other than the ones  on the back of her 
statement. She says if the wording  on the back of her statement does not form part of the 
terms and conditions why is it there.  The key facts  on the back  of her statements give  
amongst other things  - a summary of how interest  will be charged and payments allocated.  I 
dont think they provide  any different  information to what is set out in the terms and 
conditions. So this doesnt change the outcome  Ive reached.  
Lastly, Mrs B also specifically mentions the UTCCR.  Only a court can decide  if a particular 
term is unfair under the UTCCR. My role  as statute requires  is to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this case. In doing  so, I need to take into account 
any relevant law such as the UTCCR.  For the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think 
Virgin has acted unfairly in charging interest on Mrs Bs card purchases.  
Virgin have already acknowledged Mrs Bs complaints about level of service provided and as 
a gesture of goodwill  have  paid her £50 and repaid some of the interest charged on her 
credit card. I think this is fair in the circumstances and will not be asking Virgin  to do anything  
more in this respect.
So weighing everything up, and thinking about  all the points Mrs B has made, I dont think 
Virgin have done  anything wrong. Im sorry to bring  her what I appreciate will be 
disappointing news.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Carl Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25793413
Ref: DRN2579341