K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) wont pay him compensation 
following a complaint he made about an ATM cash withdrawal in July 2018.
background 
On 6 July 2018,  Mr A attempted  to withdraw  £350 from an ATM in the Isle of Wight. The 
ATM said there was an error processing  the transaction and the cash  Mr A requested was 
not dispensed from the machine. However, Mr A later noticed that £350 had been  deducted  
from the balance  of his account. Mr A called Tesco to let them know what  had happened.  
Tesco told Mr A that the full amount  would  be credited back to his account on the same day. 
Tesco didnt  tell Mr A that the amount would be refunded subject to a full investigation being 
carried out. And if Tesco found evidence  to suggest that the cash  was dispensed, the 
amount would be re-debited from Mr As account. 
As part of its investigation, Tesco raised a dispute (via a third party  payment systems 
company) with the bank that owned the ATM. It received  a response,  via the third party,  that 
this bank felt Mr A had received the funds hed requested.  Relying on this information,  Tesco  
rejected Mr As complaint and told him the money would be re-debited  from his account. 
Mr A spoke to Tesco again and said he wouldnt have enough funds  in the account for it to 
re-debit the amount. At the same time he also raised a complaint. Mr A wasnt told, during 
this call, that if there wasnt  enough  money in his account when the amount was re-debited,  
this would take him into an unarranged  overdraft which he then would be responsible  for.
Tesco re-debited the funds from Mr As account  and this took him into an unarranged 
overdraft. Mr A then spoke to Tesco again.  Tesco told Mr A it felt it had sufficient evidence to 
say he had received  the requested amount  from the ATM. But it acknowledged  that it should  
have told him that the credit to his account  could be taken out again.  It also acknowledged 
that it should have told him this could take him into an unarranged overdraft. To compensate 
Mr A for its errors, Tesco agreed to pay him £50 in compensation and waive the first months 
fees on the unarranged  overdraft.
Unhappy with Tescos  response  to his complaint, Mr A referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr As complaint and requested some further 
information from the bank who owned  the ATM.  On 6 July 2019,  this bank responded to say 
it had checked  the ATM in question, and having done so, it had identified  it was showing as 
£760 over. This supported  Mr As testimony  that the funds he had requested had not been 
dispensed. And so the third party bank offered to refund Mr A £350.
Our investigator didnt  think this was enough.  And she requested  that Tesco:
Add 8% simple interest to the £350  to compensate  Mr A for the amount of time he 
had been out of pocket; and
Include £100 for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr A - Mr A had been unable  to pay 
his employees whilst he was without this money  and had been  worried at the thought 
of having to deal with an unarranged overdraft.
Ref: DRN22857922Tesco didnt  agree. It felt the third party bank should  pay Mr A the additional  compensation. 
It said:
It had followed all of the correct procedures for a complaint  of this kind.
The third party bank  had told Tesco  Mr A had received the cash and it had relied on 
this information  when rejecting Mr As complaint. If the third party  bank had provided 
the correct information,  it wouldnt  have re-debited  the amount  from Mr As account.  
Tesco expected  the third party  bank  to check its technical information before 
providing information that could ultimately be used to decline a customers claim. It 
wasnt unreasonable that theyd  relied  on this information.
The onus  is on the third party bank to ensure their response is correct  when a 
dispute is raised via the agreed  process.
Because of the above, the third party bank, not Tesco, should be responsible for 
paying Mr A compensation because it was their incorrect information that had caused 
Tesco to act in the way it did - in re-debiting the account.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
our investigator previously set out - and for much  the same  reasons. 
As part of its investigation, Tesco reached  out to the third party  bank who owned the ATM in 
question, via the agreed process,  to enquire  if it thought Mr A had received his cash or not. It 
received the following information:
Customer  requested £350.00  and received £350.00  in values of 17x £20.00  1x £10.00.  
There is no error showing on this transaction, with the notes showing the customer  picked up 
the bills with a successful transaction
Tesco chose  to accept  this statement at face value. And it chose to rely on this statement 
when rejecting Mr As complaint. Tesco could have  gone back  to the third party bank for 
further information and this information   should have  been readily available. It was when our 
investigator requested  it. But as Tesco  chose  not to do so, it ran the risk of the information 
provided to it ultimately turning out to be incorrect  as it was here.  And so it is Tescos  
responsibility to put things  right for Mr A. 
As it is now agreed its most likely Mr A didnt receive  the cash he requested, Tesco wasnt  
entitled to debit the money from his account.  And so Mr A has been unfairly deprived of 
funds that should have  been available to him. He was also placed  in a position  where  he 
couldnt meet his commitments and had to worry about being placed in an unarranged  
overdraft. Mr A wouldnt have found himself  in this position if Tesco had chosen to request 
further information from the third party bank. And ultimately, it is Tescos responsibility to put 
this right.  
Ref: DRN22857923Its also worth noting, that Mr A is Tescos customer.  Mr A has no right to bring a complaint 
against the third party  bank. He can only make a complaint about Tesco and their decision to 
rely on unsupported information.  
In summary,  I think it was Tescos  choice to rely on the information  provided by the third 
party bank. And because of this, it incorrectly  debited Mr As account. It follows  that Tesco 
should compensate  Mr A for the amount of time that he was out of pocket and pay him the 
additional compensation recommended  by our investigator. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC. I direct 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do the following:
Add 8% simple interest to the £350  refunded to Mr A by the third party  bank to 
compensate him for the amount of time he has been  out of pocket; and
Pay Mr A £100 in compensation 
If Tesco Personal Finance PLC deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
inform Mr A and provide  him with the appropriate  tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2285792