K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained to Ageas Insurance Limited about  its decision to decline his contents 
insurance claim. Hes also unhappy with the way the claim was handled.   
background
Mr A held a contents  insurance policy with Ageas. The policy provided cover for personal  
possessions anywhere  in the world.  
While abroad, in late 2015, Mr As luggage  containing personal items  and jewellery was 
stolen. He was able to claim for most personal  items under his travel insurance  policy.  
However, several items  of jewellery  werent  covered by the travel insurance so, in December 
2015, he submitted  a claim to Ageas. The claim was for jewellery  worth  approximately  
£15,000.
Mr A was unhappy with how long the claim was taking to be settled  so he complained about 
this to Ageas in June 2017.  As he was unhappy with Ageas response, he referred  the 
complaint to our service. 
A complaint about delays in the claim progressing was considered by our service and Mr A 
was awarded £150. However, Ageas still needed  further information from Mr A before the 
claim could  be settled.  So the investigator suggested that both parties agreed a mutually 
convenient time to discuss matters.  Our initial complaint file was closed in July 2017.  
Ageas continued  with its assessment of the claim but there were further delays while  it tried 
to obtain the information  it needed.  In February  2018 it wrote to Mr A to confirm that it 
currently didnt have  enough to confirm that Mr A was a permanent  resident in the UK when 
he took the policy out. And it wasnt satisfied that adequate information had been  provided to 
support the claim. 
Mr A provided further information and Ageas continued with its assessment but in October 
2018 it wrote  to Mr A to confirm that it would not be progressing the claim  and no payment 
would be made.  In summary,  its reasons for declining the claim were as follows:
It wasnt satisfied that Mr A had purchased the rings from the seller  he said he had. 
The seller concerned had been  unable to describe the rings  or confirm when they 
were purchased. And there  was no information  to confirm they were constructed  
using gold.
It had concerns about what Mr A did with the jewellery during his holiday when he 
wasnt in possession of the trolley used to carry his possessions; neither the bangles 
or the rings were  being worn.  Ageas didnt think it was plausible  that the jewellery  
was his possession all the time and other than being in the trolley no other security 
was afforded to the jewellery.  
Pictures taken to support  ownership  of the bangles were deliberately  recorded to 
support an insurance  claim should one arise. The pictures were taken three days  
before cover was put in place. However  Mr A didnt  take pictures  of the rings that he 
says were stolen,  despite these  being in his possession at that time. And he didnt 
have the rings valued. 
Ref: DRN24089622Confirming Mr As residency in the United Kingdom had been  difficult.  The initial  
tenancy agreement that was provided  was unsigned despite it being confirmed that 
this was an original document. The lack of signatures was discussed and a signed 
agreement was then provided. Ageas  was unsure the correct information had been  
provided or who signed the document.
Mr A complained to Ageas again as he was unhappy with the content  of its letter.  Ageas 
acknowledged that it had caused a slight delay to matters around August 2018 and it paid 
Mr A a further £150. But it stood by its decision to decline the claim.
Mr A remained unhappy  so he referred his complaint to this service.  One of our investigators 
reviewed matters but she didnt think Ageas needed  to do any more  than it had already 
done. The investigator acknowledged  that there  had been delays but she didnt think  these 
were solely down to Ageas and she felt that the £150 already offered for these delays was 
fair.  
In terms of the claim, given Ageas concerns about the lack of evidence  provided to support  
ownership of some  of the items of jewellery,  the investigator didnt think  it was unfair of it to 
decline the claim. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for mostly the same reasons. 
Delays
Mr A has said that Ageas  failed to request the relevant information at the start of the claim 
but I dont intend to comment on what happened at the start of the process. Like the 
investigator, Ive only considered whats happened since  July 2016; concerns Mr A had up to 
that point were considered and resolved under a separate  complaint.  
In July 2016 Ageas confirmed that it hadnt been provided with information to satisfy  itself 
that Mr A was resident in the UK at the time the policy was taken out. I know Mr A provided a 
copy of the tenancy  agreement  early  on in the claims process but this was unsigned. So 
Ageas carried out further checks to verify Mr As residency. Unfortunately some  of the 
information it  received  was contradictory so this meant that there was a delay  in it 
confirming that Mr A lived in the UK at the time the policy was taken out. 
There were general delays throughout the process  but these werent solely  down to Ageas.  I 
can see that Mr A had to ask for updates on several occasions because  he hadnt  heard 
anything about  the claim for some time. However, there  were  also numerous  instances when 
it took Mr A considerable time to respond  to Ageas emails requesting information. So I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Ageas to pay any more  than its already offered for these delays. 
Ref: DRN24089623Claim decision
Ageas made the decision to decline Mr As claim on the basis that it wasnt satisfied some of 
the items  Mr A was claiming for were owned  by him/or with him when the theft occurred. It 
also raised several other points to support its stance that it shouldnt pay the claim.  Ive  
thought very carefully about these.  
Under the policy terms and conditions, its Mr As responsibility to show that he owned  the 
items hes claiming for. 
Proof of value and ownership
It is your responsibility to provide proof of any loss you suffer. Therefore we recommend  that 
you keep any receipts,  valuations, photographs,  instruction  booklets  and guarantee cards to 
help with your claim.
This is a common term in insurance  policies, and its not unreasonable for Ageas to carryout  
investigations into items being claimed  for.  Insurers do realise  that receipts arent always  
available, which is why they often accept photos or other evidence in support of the claim. 
In this case, part of Mr As claim was for two gold rings. However, hes not been  able to 
provide proof of purchase or a photo of these items. And the valuation report  provided 
doesnt include these  items either. Ageas was concerned about this because Mr A owned 
the rings when his other items were valued and photographed.  So it couldnt understand why 
the rings werent  included  in the photos  and the valuation.  
Ageas also had concerns after it contacted the seller of the rings. The seller was unable  to 
confirm when the sale took place.  He was unable to describe the rings or confirm how much 
Mr A paid for the items.
I can understand why continuously being asked questions about these items  would  cause 
Mr A to feel that Ageas was trying  to get out of paying his claim. But that doesnt  necessarily 
make this unfair, or unusual. Without  some evidence that Mr A owned the rings I wouldnt 
ask Ageas to pay to replace them. 
Ageas also had concerns about other aspects of the claim,  such  as where  the items were  
kept when not in Mr As possession. Ive not considered these concerns further  because  I 
think that Ageas has shown that it had valid concerns over the rings being  claimed  for and 
that Mr A hasnt been able to resolve  those concerns. 
When an insurer has concerns about  certain aspects of a claim, for example if it believes the 
claim has been exaggerated, its terms allow it to turn down  the claim in full.  Given  Ageas 
concerns with the rings, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to turn down the entire claim 
based on the evidence. Overall, although I accept that there  were  delays in assessing the 
claim, I find that Ageas didnt act unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN24089624my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2408962