K821x#15complaint
Mr D complained about the advice he received from Pension Transfers Ltd (PTL) to transfer  
his pension plans  to a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP). PTL was an appointed 
representative of Kingsway  Wealth  Management  Limited (Kingsway). Mr D says that he 
wasnt advised about the risks of investing in a SIPP compared to leaving his pensions as 
they were.  And he wasnt adequately informed about the costs of the transfer and ongoing 
charges.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 May 2019.  I set out the background to this complaint 
in that provisional  decision. Those  details  are not in dispute. In summary, I said:
Mr D was introduced to Kingsway in 2011  to review his pensions. This was to identify if there 
was a better structure  taking account  of his plans and objectives for the future.
A client information form was completed. This recorded details of Mr Ds personal and 
financial circumstances. He was married and self-employed earning  £8,000  a year.  He 
owned his own home with no mortgage. He had two personal pension plans with a total 
value of just under £70,000.
Mr D completed  boxes  on the information  form about  his objectives. He wanted to 
consolidate his existing pension. He had no particular view about  the flexibility and 
investment fund choice  or investment in specific investments. He made the comment that he 
was waiting to be advised.
The advice given  to Mr D was set out in PTLs letter of 19 April 2011. The objectives were  
set out in the letter in similar terms to those  on the client information form. PTL was not 
providing investment  advice as that was to be provided by another  financial adviser.  They 
recommended a SIPP to meet Mr Ds objectives.
A comparison of the potential benefits from the PPPs was made  with the potential  benefits 
from the SIPP. Assuming  growth of 5% a year the PPPs were projected to have a fund of 
£111,500. The SIPP was projected to have a fund of £111,000. However, that was without 
any allowance for charges. PTL assume  an annual  charge of 1.5%  to show that the fund 
would be £93,000.
A regulated adviser also had a separate  unregulated  business. He wrote  to Mr D with 
recommendations for the investments to be made in the SIPP.  The advice was to invest 
£20,000 in Eco Fuel Tech Ltd. The letter concluded by saying  that once the investment was 
set up they would become the servicing adviser. 
The transfer was made from the personal  pensions to the SIPP.  A total of £70,292.78  was 
received. Mr D also paid £100  net a month into the SIPP. PTL was paid £1,700.  
The following  investments  were made in the SIPP:
 SCS Farmland £12,000 in June 2011.
 Sustainable Agroenergy £20,000  in July 2011. 
 Sterling Investment Account £20,000 recommended  by the regulated  adviser.
 Rimondi Grand £11,197.05 in December  2011.
Ref: DRN27189092Mr D is being represented.  A complaint was made to Kingsway but they did not uphold  it. 
They explained that PTL did not provide  any investment  advice. The SIPP  met the objectives  
recorded in the client information form. Mr D did not accept the conclusion and referred the 
complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He concluded that the higher charges for 
the SIPP meant that it was unlikely to be suitable. In addition,  PTL should  have  considered 
the investments  to be made.
Kingsway did not accept  the adjudicators opinion. They said that Mr D was introduced  by a 
regulated firm. It was therefore reasonable for them to conclude that Mr D received suitable 
and compliant investment advice from that firm. They sought approval from the regulator and 
two compliance companies about the process.  No concerns were raised at the time. The 
advice to start the SIPP met Mr Ds objectives to make investments  that he had already 
discussed with his regulated adviser.
The complaint was referred  to me. I concluded that it should be upheld for the following 
reasons:
What did Kingsway do?
Kingsway contacted the FSA before giving its advice to Mr D. I think  this was a generic 
question about  the process it would need  to follow. It said that the FSA agreed  with the 
approach it intended to take. I have set out the email in full below:
I have now had a chance to speak to colleagues about your proposals in relation to 
Pension Transfer Ltd.
From the limited information you have provided us, there would appear to be no 
breach in the proposed  advice structure,  but we recommend that you seek  your own 
legal advice on this. However, it is very important that disclosure to clients  of the 
firms status is clear  and if Pension Transfer Ltd is whole of market  this would need to 
be evidenced in the advice process. We would find it difficult  to accept that offering 
just one SIPP to all shades of customer could be promoted as whole of market. The 
charging structure for advice from Pension  Transfer Ltd and the referring IFA should 
also be clear, as well as all charges in the SIPP and any possible future  charges (eg 
asset buying and selling  transaction  charges).
It is also essential that all clients referred to Pension  Transfer Ltd are assessed by 
Pension Transfer Ltd to satisfy themselves  that the transfer to a SIPP is suitable for 
the client. You should also consider  the aspect that 1 firm is giving advice about a 
product, whereas the client is getting  advice about funds from another adviser. In our 
view, it is difficult to separate  advice on the merits of joining a SIPP  from the merits of 
particular investment assets  to be held under that SIPP compared to the funds and 
benefits of the ceding  scheme.
I am assuming that Pension Transfer  Ltd will seek FSA authorisation, along with the 
relevant permissions. The firm, even if advising on just holding cash within  a specific 
SIPP, will need authorisation (rights under a SIPP are a FSMA investment in 
themselves).
Ref: DRN27189093Finally, our definition of a pension transfer  includes  transfers from defined 
contribution occupational pension schemes to say personal pensions including  
SIPPs. Any firm advising on these  would need  the relevant FSA permission and 
would need to comply  with the relevant COBS and T&C rules.
I said that I thought  the message from the FSA was clear. The advice had to be suitable  for 
the client. And it was difficult to see suitable advice could be given without considering the 
investment to be made. I agree with that view.
Kingsway gave advice to Mr D. They tried to limit that advice to assessing whether a transfer  
of his personal pensions to a SIPP was viable. Any advice about  the assets to be held within  
the SIPP was to be given by a different firm.
In my view, the advice  to transfer  to the SIPP was unsuitable. The funds being  transferred 
were a large  part of his overall wealth. The charges on the SIPP were higher than the 
existing plan. Kingsway knew  that unregulated investments were  to be made.  They should 
have known that these were  unsuitable  for Mr D.
What should Kingsway  have done?
Kingsway was required to give Mr D suitable  advice.  I think that the advice to start the SIPP 
was unsuitable  for the reasons given above.  I accept that the other  adviser instigated the 
review and contacted  Kingsway to arrange  the transfer to the SIPP. But, I think that the 
charges were significant. The performance  of the SIPP needed to be much better than the 
existing pension plan.  And it should also have been apparent  that Mr D was not a client  for 
whom unregulated investments were suitable.
I think Kingsway should have  questioned  why the other adviser  thought unregulated 
investments using a SIPP  were  suitable  for Mr D. Given that the other adviser was not 
allowed to advise on a full range of SIPPs by their network, this should  have  given further 
cause for concern. In my view, suitable advice would have been to either retain the existing 
plan; or move to a lower charging  plan with a range of standard investments.
What loss did Kingsway  cause?
Mr D transferred to a SIPP. He then invested  in unregulated investments. He also invested 
in regulated funds  after receiving advice  which was from the other  adviser as an appointed 
representative of a network. In my view, the SIPP and unregulated funds were unsuitable. 
These could not have  happened unless Mr D received advice. Kingsway gave that advice 
and so I think they caused that loss.
Kingsway says that its role was to assess  whether that SIPP  was suitable  for Mr D. I have  
already concluded that the SIPP was not suitable.  Kingsway  should  therefore have given 
advice to Mr D not to transfer  to the SIPP. I would  normally  expect a consumer to follow the 
advice there  were given  from a regulated  adviser.  The transfer to the SIPP  and subsequent 
investments were made  to provide greater returns for Mr D. I think if he had been given a 
balanced assessment  and advised against  doing  this it is likely he would not have 
transferred to the SIPP or made the investments.
Ref: DRN27189094What about the role of other  parties?
I accept that the role of the other adviser is crucial. He had two businesses  one of which  was 
unregulated and the other regulated as an appointed representative of a network.  It is 
possible that either of those businesses could have some liability. But, I also remain  of the 
view that Kingsway gave  advice  for which it is liable. This service is not able to deal with a 
complaint about  the unregulated business.  And Im satisfied that the unregulated 
investments were sold by the unregulated business.  Thats because in the same  way that 
the network would  not allow the adviser to recommend a full range of SIPPs;  neither will it 
allow advice to be given  on unregulated  investments.
The SIPP provider did accept the investments. There were some responsibilities on that 
business before accepting  and dealing with Mr D as its client.  But, that does not relieve 
Kingsway of its obligation to give suitable  advice.
In this case, there was advice given by the regulated adviser. Its possible that the other 
adviser acting as an appointed representative  of a network could have some liability.  But in 
my view the actions of Kingsway allowed the SIPP to be established and unregulated 
investments to be made. So I think its fair in this case that Kingsways liability should  include 
losses from all of the investments made.
I think what I have set out below represents fair compensation. But I recognise that other  
parties may have some liability. If Kingsway wishes to take an assignment of any rights from 
Mr D so that they may take action to recover any losses caused by the other  parties I am 
happy for them to do so. Mr Ds should cooperate with Kingsway to recover  any losses  from 
other parties, if full compensation  is paid by Kingsway.
I also explained how Kingsway should compensate  Mr D. 
Mr D accepted my provisional  decision.
Kingsway asked questions about  the compensation. They thought that they should not be 
responsible for the investment made  by Mr D after advice from the regulated adviser. I 
explained that I thought  the SIPP was unsuitable  and that the investment would not have 
been made if suitable advice had been  given.
Kingsway made some  further submissions  in response to my provisional  decision. These 
were:
An explanation  as to the delay in progressing this matter  as this may well have had 
an effect on the loss calculation  and amount payable.  They  therefore consider  it only 
fair and reasonable that an explanation is provided  so they can decide  whether they 
should make representations on this issue;
The Sterling Investment is not illiquid. Mr D should have sought alternative advice 
following his complaint such that those  investments  could/should have been placed 
elsewhere a long time ago. On that basis either  the investment should be removed 
from the award or an earlier  date applied i.e. the advice should have been obtained 
in 2015 and loss should be calculated to that point;
Ref: DRN27189095Why is an award being suggested  for five years  of SIPP fees? On the basis that the 
funds are to be transferred to Kingsway, is it reasonable  to suggest that this will take 
five years? Is it intended that Mr D will move out of the SIPP entirely  or simply alter 
the investments  within it, in which case the fees would be payable in any event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im satisfied that Kingsway did not give suitable  advice for the reasons set out above. If 
suitable advice  had been given Mr D would not have transferred to the SIPP.  He therefore  
would not have made any of the investments. I remain  of the view that Mr Ds loss was 
caused by the unsuitable  advice from Kingsway.
I would like to offer my apologies the delay  in dealing with this case.  This is one of a number 
of cases we have  been dealing with involving  unregulated  investments. There  have been a 
number of issues raised including those raised  by Kingsway set out earlier in the 
background. These issues related  to any liability for Kingsway or other parties as well as 
issues about fair compensation. The case has taken longer to deal with them it should have 
done. I am sorry for this, but they were complex  issues to resolve. In my view,  these  do not 
affect the principle  that Mr D should be put back in the position he would have  been  in if 
Kingsway had given suitable advice.
I have carefully considered the position with the Sterling investment. This was recommended 
by a regulated  adviser. It appears to me that it is possibly suitable  for Mr D. But, the 
investment is within the SIPP. There are higher  charges involved than I think should  have  
been. So I think it is fair that this investment is included in the redress as Mr D could not take 
action with this investment  to a cheaper  alternative. Thats because the other investments  
prevented the SIPP from being closed.
The award for five years  worth of the SIPP fees is to be paid because Mr D would not have 
incurred fees in the SIPP if suitable  advice had been  given.  The SIPP still exists many years  
after the investments  became illiquid. The fees are to be paid to allow  a reasonable period of 
time to allow  the SIPP to be closed. 
Ref: DRN27189096fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr D as close to the position he would probably  now be in if he had been  
given suitable  advice by Kingsway. I think Mr D would  have  invested  differently. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done,  but I am satisfied that what  I have  set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
what should  Kingsway do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Kingsway must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ds investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Kingsway should pay into Mr Ds pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Kingsway is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ds pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ds actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. The reduction should  equal  the current basic rate of tax. However, Mr D 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum;  the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr D £300 for the distress caused  by the loss to his pension fund.
I understand the SIPP still exists and cannot be closed. Mr D will continue to be 
charged fees for the SIPP until it can be closed. Had Kingsway acted in Mr Ds best 
interests I dont think there  would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr D continues  to pay 
the annual SIPP  fees if it cant be closed. 
I think Kingsway could take over the investments to allow the SIPP to be closed. This 
is the fairest way of putting  Mr D back in the position he would have been in. But I 
dont know how long that will take. Third parties are involved and I dont have the 
power to tell them what to do. To provide certainty  to all parties, I think  its fair that 
Kingsway pay Mr D an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth  of SIPP  fees 
(calculated using  the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period 
for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways they 
may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide  Mr D with some  confidence  that 
he will not be subject to further fees.
Ref: DRN27189097Kingsway should  add interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
paid. If Kingsway deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr D how much  has 
been taken off. Kingsway should give Mr D a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
My aim is to return Mr D to the position he would have been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on 
the open market).  I understand that SCS Farmland, Rimondi Grand  and Sustainable 
Agroenergy cannot  be sold. It is difficult to know  the actual value of these investments. 
Kingsway should  take ownership  of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial  value  
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the total payable  
to Mr D and the balance be paid as I set out above.
If Kingsway is unable to buy the investments the actual value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Kingsway may wish to require Mr D to provide an undertaking 
to pay Kingsway any amount he may receive from the investment in the future.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ds circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN27189098my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Kingsway Wealth  Management Limited should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Kingsway should  provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2718909