K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has offered 
to settle his complaint about a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out 
alongside his credit card.
background
Mr D took out a credit card with HSBC and alongside this he took out a PPI policy  in 
November 2007.  In 2019 Mr D complained to HSBC that the PPI had been  mis-sold. HSBC 
upheld his complaint and offered compensation of £1,356.53.
Mr D wasnt happy with the amount of compensation as he says it isnt enough  to 
compensate for all the stress and waste of use of his capital. So he brought  his complaint to 
this service. 
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered was fair. Mr D didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed the PPI was mis-sold to Mr D so in this decision Im not looking at how it 
came to be sold alongside his credit  card.  I am only considering if the compensation offered 
and paid by HSBC is fair.
When a PPI policy is mis-sold we expect  a business to as far as possible put a consumer in 
the position they would have been in if the policy hadnt been taken out. This means  working 
out how much the consumer paid for the PPI, including any interest caused by premiums, 
and also paying  compensatory interest for any time a consumer is out of pocket. 
In this case HSBC has provided details of the full premiums charged for the PPI. The first 
premium for £0.79 was added to Mr Ds credit card in November  2007  and the last for £2.91  
in November 2018. In total over the period  the PPI was active  £552.66 for premiums was 
added to Mr Ds credit card. Whilst the premiums were in his balance  interest was charged 
on them  at credit card rate and this comes  to interest of £654.99.  
As part of the compensation offered HSBC  has included these costs for the PPI. In addition, 
HSBC has added 8% simple interest  as compensatory interest for any periods when Mr D 
was out of pocket.  This would be any time he had cleared his credit card balance  and so 
was out of pocket  for the costs of the PPI that had formed part of the balance.
The 8% interest comes to £184.84 and tax has to be taken off this at basic rate as required 
by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.  Taking  all this into account  the total compensation 
HSBC has offered is £1,356.53 after tax. This is in line with what  I would expect and so I 
think the compensation paid by HSBC is fair.
I have taken account of all Mr Ds comments about the stress and waste of capital  he says 
were caused  because he was mis-sold the PPI. He has been compensated for being  out of 
pocket for the cost of the PPI with the simple interest and this is considered by this service,  
Ref: DRN20449822and the courts,  to be a fair way to compensate customers  who may not have had the use of 
money in this type of circumstance.
I have also noted  Mr Ds comments about paying  his credit card monthly payment out of his 
overdraft at times. But this monthly payment was not just for the PPI, it was payment for his 
own spending as well. The maximum ever charged in one month for PPI that I can see was 
£11.30. There  were many months  when no PPI was charged as there was no balance on the 
card or it was a nominal £0.79.  
So I cant see it would have been  the cost of the PPI each month that caused  Mr D to go into 
his overdraft. And the total cost for the PPI although being paid back  in a lump  sum took 
over 10 years to accumulate. It was a small amount each  month  and no one knows  what 
Mr D would have done with this small amount he paid for the PPI each month. He is being 
compensated for not having the money  by the compensatory interest.
Taking account of everything said by Mr D and all the circumstances of the case, I think the 
8% simple  interest is fair compensation interest. So Im not telling HSBC  to pay anything  
more to Mr D.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think what HSBC UK Bank Plc has paid in compensation 
to Mr D for the mis-sold PPI is fair in all the circumstance of this case and Im not telling it to 
pay anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2044982