K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mrs E took out a mortgage through the Nationwide in 1991 and with it a monthly  premium  
PPI policy. Nationwide cant now say how the policy was sold to her. The policy gave her 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It cost her around £55.80 per month and 
covered her monthly mortgage  repayment,  plus it provided some  extra  monthly cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed. She said she didnt need or 
want the policy, so it wasnt  suitable for her needs.  She added  that she was not at risk of 
redundancy in her line of work  and that she had the equivalent of nine months  worth  of full 
sick pay, which although it covered her for less time than the policy,  was adequate for her 
needs and attitude to risk.
Mrs Es complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear  that PPI was optional and Mrs E had to agree to take it.
Nationwide no longer has a copy of Mrs Es paperwork from the time of sale. But thats  
not surprising  given that this policy  was sold over twenty five years ago. Businesses  
generally only keep  records for six years. So, as well as taking into account what  Mrs E 
has said, Ive also taken  into account  what weve learnt about  Nationwides  sales  
processes from dealing with other cases,  including  looking at sample paperwork from the 
time. Overall, based on what Ive seen, I think it likely that Mrs E wouldve been  given  the 
option to take out PPI. I also think there was likely to have been some discussion about the 
cover Mrs E wanted, as the level of cover she had exceeded her monthly mortgage 
repayment. I think it unlikely that the policy wouldve been set up in this way unless Mrs E 
told Nationwide thats what she wanted.
From what  Ive seen, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, I think  it 
unlikely that Nationwide advised  Mrs E to take out PPI. Both Mrs E and Nationwide  
agreed this wasnt an advised sale. Our adjudicator thought Nationwide had 
recommended the policy  to Mrs E. To avoid any doubt, and given that no-one  knows  how 
the policy was sold to Mrs E, I have  thought  about whether the policy  was suitable for her, 
in her circumstances.   I cant see that it was unsuitable. I say this because:
she was eligible to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN29163812PPI appeared  affordable, particularly given  she selected  a higher level of cover 
than she needed  to, to cover  her repayments. She couldve  cancelled the policy  at 
any time without losing out financially.  
she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover,  so I dont  
think this wouldve affected her decision to buy the insurance as she was covered 
for everything the policy offered.
although she said she had benefits  through work and felt there was no risk of her 
being made redundant, I still think the policy couldve been useful to her, to protect 
her home. It wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per successful claim, so longer 
than her work benefits wouldve  covered  her for. It wouldve  paid out on top of 
Mrs Es work benefits, allowing her to use these to meet  her other  household  
expenses at what might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt working.  
She said she had no other means  to make her repayments from, so I think  the PPI 
couldve been useful  to her in her circumstances.
Nationwide needed to give Mrs E clear information  about the PPI so she could decide for 
herself whether she wanted to buy it. I cant know what she was told about the costs and 
benefits of the policy, but as Ive already said I think it likely there was some discussion and 
Mrs E opted for a higher level of cover because thats what she wanted. The policy 
appeared suitable for her and affordable, so I cant see that if shed had been given clearer 
information she wouldnt have bought PPI.
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs E has said, but this doesnt  change my view. 
I cant see that shes lost out because of anything that Nationwide did wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916381