K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
October 2006. Mr A says Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A applied  for the credit card by completing  a postal application  form. The form had 
a section that said I wish to purchase Credit Card  Repayments Cover. And next to 
this was a tick box that had been  ticked and Mr A signed to add PPI to his credit  
card. And having seen the application form that Mr A signed  and taking into account 
that Mr A applied for the credit  card by post,  I think BOS made it clear  that Mr A didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out knowing he didnt have to.
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
I dont think BOS  gave  Mr A clear enough  information about the PPI. But Mr A chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover and was happy to 
apply for it based on the limited information on the application  form. And given what 
Ive seen of Mr As circumstances at the time, including what  hes told us about his 
employers sick pay policy, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI cover.  So I think it would have been useful for him 
if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, on balance, I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the 
cover. 
All of which means  BOS  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But BOS  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because : 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  BOS  didnt  tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what hes said not being aware that 
hed have to pay interest  on the PPI premiums. However, on the credit  agreement above 
where Mr A signed for the PPI it said I understand that I am purchasing the product ticked 
above on credit provided by you So although  Mr A may not have fully understood the 
details of the PPI at the time, I think the application  form did explain that the PPI would be 
Ref: DRN22125012paid for on the credit  card he was applying for at the time. So having  considered  all the 
points raised by Mr A, these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
BOS has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. BOS should also pay back to Mr A any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
BOS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr A the difference between  
what Mr A owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BOS should also pay Mr A 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2212501