K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy for their mortgage in 2006. Mr and Mrs M paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. The PPI covered Mr M only 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so their complaint  has been passed to me to decide. In the main, they said that PPI 
was added without  them knowing  and they wouldnt have agreed to take it out. Mr M also 
said he was working  for the armed forces at the time and that he didnt  work  as an employee  
for the company referred to in the paperwork.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application  and their mortgage  offer.  PPI isnt mentioned 
on the mortgage application  and their mortgage offer says that they dont have to take out 
any insurances through Santander. It says they must take buildings  insurance  (but not 
through Santander), but this is the only compulsory insurance. Santander  says the PPI was 
taken out on the phone. It no longer has the call recording. Businesses often only keep 
records for six years, and phone recordings often for much less, so thats  not surprising. 
Ive also seen the PPI high level needs  analysis document that Santander  says was 
completed, and sent to Mr and Mrs M, around  the time the mortgage  and PPI was taken out. 
This makes it clear  that Santander  has recommended  PPI, based on Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances. Its noted  on the document that Mr and Mrs M have accepted Santanders 
recommendation about PPI. I cant know if Mr and Mrs M received this. But, taking  all of this 
into account, I think it more likely  that the policy  was recommended  to Mr and Mrs M and 
they agreed to take it, knowing they didnt  have to. I can understand why after so much time, 
they may not remember it that way now.    
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check  it was right for them.  
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. In reaching  
this conclusion Ive taken into account Mrs Ms circumstances too as this was a joint 
mortgage, even  though  only Mr M was covered under the policy.  I say this because  Mr M 
appeared eligible for the policy and I cant see that it was unaffordable.  Mr M said he was 
working for the armed forces  at the time. He said he was also working for the business noted 
on the mortgage and PPI paperwork, but not as an employee. We asked  Mr M to obtain  
Ref: DRN20080322details of his armed forces  employment, but he hasnt been able to get this. The mortgage  
application form and the high needs  analysis document completed at the time of sale,  before 
this complaint was known  about, record that Mr M was working as a sales manager for 
Company E, earning around  £40,000  per annum. Santander appears to have based its 
decision offer them  the mortgage on this information. I cant know  if Mr M was working for 
the armed forces at the time, but based on the information Santander  appears  to have been 
given about Mr Ms employment circumstances at the time, I cant see that the policy  was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M. Had Mr M received any sick pay through  work,  the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his work  benefits. 
Mrs M told us she was working at the time and eligible to get sick pay. However, on their 
mortgage application form it says she wasnt working.  However, even if Mrs M was working,  
PPI wouldve  allowed them to use her income or work related benefits  to meet their other 
household expenses at what might be a difficult time financially. So I think  PPI couldve 
provided them with useful protection to safeguard their home.  Ive taken into consideration 
that Mr M said his father couldve helped  out. But, help of this kind cant  always be 
guaranteed so I havent placed much reliance on this
Its possible that the information Santander  gave Mr and Mrs M about  PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their mind.  But as Ive explained  above, Mr M wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs M in case 
something went wrong. I cant see that it was unaffordable. So, I dont think  that better  
information was likely  to have put them off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2008032