K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover a 
credit card that started  in 1998.  Miss G says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Understandably, given how much times passed  since the sale, Lloyds hasnt been able 
to provide a copy  of Miss Gs PPI application.  But, taking into account sample paperwork 
Lloyds has provided, and from experience of how it generally sold PPI during this period, 
I believe Lloyds would  have  made  it clear that Miss G didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that shed have chosen to take it out before it was added. I can see why she might not 
remember that now all this time later.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss G it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it doesnt appear she was affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the cover despite  her employers sick 
pay and other means  none  of which would  have covered her for as long.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Miss Gs lost out because of how Lloyds sold 
her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2142742