K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the charges Barclays  Bank UK PLC applied  to her current account. 
She says she was in financial  difficulty and the charges were excessive. 
background
In June 2018, Mrs A received a letter from Barclays about a current account shed previously 
held with it. Barclays said there was a period  when  it hadnt offered enough support to 
customers who were in excess  of their overdraft limit or behind with their payments. So, it was 
refunding any charges  applied during that time. Mrs A received  a refund of £41.98, consisting 
of her account fees from May to September 2014 plus 8% simple interest per year. 
Mrs A wasnt  happy with the refund.  She complained to Barclays  that the rest of the charges 
applied throughout the life of the account were  unfair. She said theyd caused her financial 
hardship  and Barclays was aware of this. But it didnt agree to refund any more  fees.  It 
explained that Mrs A hadnt been using her account  at the time of the error, so hadnt  been 
affected. Her refund solely consisted  of the monthly fees applied in line with the terms of her 
account. It also said it had sent her correspondence  informing her about the state  of the 
account during  periods when she incurred additional  fees.  
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs A referred the matter to our service. She also complained 
about a credit card and a loan shed held with Barclays. Our service  has looked into those 
complaints separately. On this case, an investigator  looked at the charges applied  on her 
current account. She found  theyd been applied in line with the terms of the account.  And in 
line with a Supreme  Court  ruling  in November  2009, such  charges  generally cant be 
challenged on the grounds that theyre too high or unfair. Additionally, our investigator  found 
that Barclays had sent Mrs A letters about  her charges, asking her to get in touch  about  her 
financial situation and signposting her to relevant  organisations. But she didnt respond. 
Taking everything into account,  our investigator didnt recommend a further  refund.  
Mrs A didnt accept this view. She said Barclays was fully aware of her situation and she 
shouldnt have been charged so much. She highlighted  fees dating back to 2004. However, 
one of my fellow ombudsmen previously decided that, due to the time limits which apply  to 
our service,  we could only look at the charges applied  since 30 October  2012.  Mrs As case 
has now been passed to me to make a final decision on how it should be resolved  both in 
terms of our time limits  and the overall merits of the complaint. 
my findings
time limits
First, Ill address our jurisdiction. I agree with the previous ombudsmans decision that we 
can only look at the charges  applied since 30 October 2012. Ill explain why. 
Under our rules,  we cant look at complaints referred to us more than six years after the 
event being complained about; or, if later, more than three years from when the complainant  
became aware  (or ought reasonably to have become aware) of their cause for complaint  
unless there  is a record that we or the respondent received the complaint within those 
periods. Or unless the business consents to us considering  the issue(s) out of time or if the 
failure to comply with the time limits was caused by exceptional circumstances. This is set 
out in DISP Rule 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
Ref: DRN24582452 
The previous  ombudsman concluded that its best to consider each of these charges as a 
separate event;  and Im satisfied thats  our normal approach in such  cases. Although  Mrs A 
says she complained earlier, the first record Ive seen of Barclays (or us) receiving her 
complaint is 30 October 2018. So her concerns about charges before 30 October 2012 are 
out under  the six-year  part of the rule. Given the impact Mrs A says these charges had
along with the regular  statements it seems  were sent to herI think she would or should 
have been aware  of cause for complaint shortly  after the charges were applied.  So she 
doesnt get more time under the three-year part of the rule. Ive therefore also concluded  that 
Mrs As concerns about the charges applied before 30 October 2012 were raised out of time.
 
We dont have Barclays consent to consider the issues raised out of time. And although 
Mrs A has explained that shes  faced  some difficult circumstances over the years, I dont  
consider these to amount to exceptional  circumstances   as Im not persuaded she couldnt 
have complained earlier as a result  of them. So Ive only considered charges applied  since  
30 October 2012.
the merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The charges  I can consider  consist of the £6.50 monthly account fee applied from November 
2012 to September 2014 (when the account closed); plus numerous  £8 fees for 
unpaid/returned transactions from December 2012  to February  2014.  
Mrs A says the charges were excessive.  Regarding  the fees for unpaid/returned 
transactions, a Supreme Court  ruling in November  2009Office  of Fair Trading v Abbey 
National plc & Others  [2009] UKSC 6made  it clear  that bank charges cant  generally  be 
challenged on the basis that theyre too high. I do have an obligation  to take account of the 
law; and whilst were  not strictly bound  by it because of our fair and reasonable jurisdiction, 
we wouldnt lightly ignore such weighty an authority as the Supreme Court, the highest in the 
UK. Ultimately, these charges appear  to have been applied  in line with the terms of the 
account  as were  the regular account fees. I would make it clear  at this point that Im not 
looking at the sale of a paid-for bank  account  (when free ones are commonplace); rather, Im 
only considering  the charges in light of Mrs As narrower allegations that they were 
excessive due to her financial situation. 
I do appreciate Mrs As point about her financial difficulties. In line with its regulatory 
obligations, Id expect Barclays to have treated her with forbearance  and due consideration 
during periods when it was clear she was in difficulty. But I wouldnt expect it to refund fees 
or change  the terms of her account  without  her consent/involvement. Mrs A says she has 
been in contact with Barclays over the years. I dont doubt that. But I havent  seen anything 
which persuades  me that she spoke to it about these charges or the general status of this 
account. If she had done  so, Barclays  could  have considered refunding some charges or 
doing something else to help. Im conscious  it did write to her on numerous  occasions about 
her charges,  explaining  what  they were for and encouraging her to get in touch. Heres an 
extract of the wording included in these  letters (my emphasis):
Ref: DRN24582453Escalating debt can lead to financial difficulty.  If you feel this may apply to you, 
please contact us to discuss your financial position  we are here  to help. 
Simply contact your local branch or call us on the number above. Alternatively 
free independent debt advice can be obtain  from organisations such as
I cant see that Mrs A responded to these letters. But Im satisfied they show  that Barclays 
treated Mrs A with forbearance and due consideration  as it reached out to her about her 
situation and signposted her to appropriate  organisations. 
I know Mrs A thinks her refund  suggests  Barclays was in the wrong. But although she 
exceeded her overdraft limit when  Barclays says it wasnt always offering enough help, she 
wasnt charged for thisor for missing any payments during that time.  Indeed,  in fact and 
law, an apology and/or  offer cannot be construed as an admission of negligence or breach of 
statutory duty:  see, for example, section 2 of the Compensation Act 2006.
Barclays did in fact contact Mrs A during the period for which  it offered the refund. For 
example, in July 2014, it gave her notice  that it would be closing her account. By that point, 
she was no longer using it to make transactions. But there was an outstanding balance and 
the monthly fee continued to accrue in line with the account terms. This tipped  her over the 
agreed overdraft limit.
As Mrs A didnt respond to the warning,  her overdraft was removed. Barclays  wrote  to her in 
August 2014 about the outstanding debt  again, asking her to get in touch about her 
financial position. The only charges applied around this time were the standard account fees 
which have now been refunded. So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mrs A didnt lose 
out financially  because  of a lack of appropriate  support from Barclays.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays  applied  the fees Im able to consider fairly  and in line with 
the terms of the account. Ive also concluded that it offered Mrs A a reasonable level of 
support on this account given her financial situation.  It follows  that I wont be directing it to 
refund any more fees or offer any further  redress. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2458245