K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused delay and gave him incorrect  
information while dealing  with a third party claim under his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr R bought a car insurance policy with UKI. In December 2018  UKI received a claim from a 
third party. A passenger  in another car said she witnessed Mr Rs car colliding with the third 
partys car in a supermarket car park and left the scene.
In January 2019 UKI apologised to Mr R for failing to keep him updated about his claim. It 
paid him £50 compensation. 
In March 2019 Mr R contacted  us and asked us to look at his complaints. UKI agreed for us 
to investigate all of the complaints Mr R raised.  In summary Mr R remained unhappy  with 
UKIs handling of the claim.  He said it had given him incorrect information and caused delay 
which would impact on his premium at renewal  in May 2019.
Mr R wanted UKI to close the claim and for it not to affect his No Claims Discount (NCD) and 
renewal premium. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought overall  
UKI had handled  the claim reasonably and hadnt  caused undue delay. 
Mr R didnt agree, so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that for Mr and Mrs R, dealing with this claim has caused them  upset and 
worry. Mr R maintains that he was not involved in the incident. 
Having to deal with a claim, irrespective of the circumstances, is unfortunate. And I 
appreciate that it will inevitably cause a degree  of inconvenience. Ive looked at whether 
UKIs handling of the claim it received has been fair and reasonable and in line with the 
policy.
It isnt for us to decide liability. This is a matter for the courts.  What  we can do is look at 
whether an insurer  has properly investigated  a claim and reached a decision reasonably and 
in line with the policy. 
Mr Rs policy  with UKI has a term which I dont find unusual as Ive seen it in most  if not all 
motor insurance policies. This term allows UKI to take over the defence  and settlement of a 
claim. This means UKI might make a decision Mr R doesnt agree with, but the policy allows  
it. We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided UKI can show its treated its 
customer fairly.
For ease, Ive set out Mr Rs complaints under headings below.
UKI caused undue  delay  and failed to update Mr R
Ref: DRN23501122Ive looked at the claim notes provided by UKI since it received notice of a third party  claim 
for an alleged incident  on 14 December 2018.  It spoke to Mr R on the same day. Mr R said 
he agreed to have his car inspected and he agreed  to send photos of his car to UKI. He said 
he wasnt involved in an incident but recalled being at the car park that day. 
On 28 January 2019 Mr R complained to UKI as he hadnt received any update  on the claim. 
UKI apologised and sent Mr R a cheque for £50 compensation. I think this was fair and 
reasonable. Since 29 January 2019  I cant say that UKI has caused undue delay or failed  to 
keep Mr R updated. 
Mr R maintains that he was given  inaccurate  information when he first spoke to UKI as it told 
him it had received a witness statement then. He said this turned out not to be true as UKI 
didnt receive this statement until 28 January 2019.  
UKIs claim  notes read from 20 December 2018  as follows:
Read to him (Mr R) TP (third party) circumstances and that they have a witness. 
I dont know for sure whether UKI told Mr R it had a written statement from a witness  or if 
this is what the third party representative  told UKI. I appreciate there  is a discrepancy 
between what Mr R says and what UKIs notes say. But in context, I dont  think  it makes a 
difference. Ultimately  a third party made an allegation and said it had a witness  who was 
happy to provide a statement in writing. After  chasing the third party  representative, UKI 
received this on 28 January 2019.
Mr R has asked why the witness   who was a passenger  but not the driver  who was 
nearer to the incident  has provided  a statement.  I dont think  this is relevant  but I can see 
from UKIs  notes that when it spoke to the witness on 29 January 2019  to arrange an 
interview, she explained that the driver would be happy to provide a statement too if 
required. 
UKI delayed  instructing an engineer  to inspect Mr Rs car
Mr R said that he agreed  that UKI could arrange  for an inspection  of his car on 21 December 
2018. UKI arranged an inspection  on 29 January 2019 and this took place on 5 February 
2019. Mr R says this delay was unexplained  and unacceptable. 
Mr R was concerned that the length  of time that passed might have an impact on the 
evidence provided  by the engineer  and he was unhappy that the engineer  didnt seem  to 
be aware of the area of alleged damage. Mr R said UKI had told him it would ensure the 
engineer was aware of the alleged  circumstances of the incident and so would examine the 
relevant areas of Mr Rs car. 
However, the engineer inspected all areas  of Mr Rs car  and found no damage.  But given  
his findings, I cant  say that what  Mr R said UKI would do  which  was to instruct  the 
engineer to only inspect the alleged areas of damage  has prejudiced  Mr R or UKIs case. If 
anything, an assessment which confirms no damage to any area of Mr Rs car would  in my 
view - be of benefit. And Mr R sent UKI photos  of his car shortly  after the incident was 
reported which also showed no signs of damage. So I dont think the length of time taken to 
assess Mr Rs car in this case makes a difference.
Ref: DRN23501123I agree  that Mr R told UKI he would allow an inspection of his car on 21 December 2018. But 
that doesnt mean it was for UKI to arrange from this date. It was in the very early stages of 
the claim and Mr R agreed to send  photos of his car to show  no damage. UKI received the 
photos. It made a decision  on 29 January 2019  to instruct an engineer when it eventually 
received the witness  statement the day before. As Ive said, its for UKI to decide  how best to 
deal with a claim. So I dont  think UKIs actions were  unreasonable  here or that it caused  
undue delay. The inspection  was carried out less than a week  later. 
UKI didnt  send Mr R a copy of the witness statement or allegations in writing  despite several 
requests
From the information available, Mr R asked UKI to set out the allegations from the third party 
to him in writing and to provide a copy of the witness statement on 1 March 2019.  UKI 
agreed to do this once  it had received  information  from its engineer  and it would review all 
the evidence together  and update Mr R then.
On 13 March 2019 UKI discussed the details of the witness statement with Mr R and said it 
intended to dispute liability. At this point Mr R said he no longer required a copy. 
On 11 April 2019 Mr R raised  concerns about the renewal  invite  UKI sent him and he asked  
for a copy  of the witness statement  and third party allegations. UKI sent this which  
Mr R acknowledged receipt  of on 15 April 2019.  Overall I dont think  UKI acted unreasonably 
here.
UKI has unfairly and incorrectly reduced Mr Rs NCD at renewal 
Mr R received a renewal invite from UKI which said it would reduce his NCD to three years 
in May 2019.  This was due to the open  claim.  Mr R was unhappy with a discussion he had 
with UKI as he said it seemed UKI had reduced  his NCD from five years to three   when he 
had nine years NCD  the year before.  
Hes also unhappy that the policy says UKI may reduce his NCD if a claim is made.  He 
believes this wording is misleading and it shouldnt apply in his circumstances. 
UKIs policy provides  a table showing how Mr Rs NCD  will be affected if a claim is made 
depending on the number of years  hes accrued. This shows that between  five and nine 
years, the NCD may reduce to three years in the event of one claim. 
No two claims are the same. So I dont think the use of the word may in UKIs policy is 
misleading. Depending on how the claim is settled depends on whether it has an impact  on 
Mr Rs NCD. I appreciate  that Mr R feels UKI should  provide a clearer  explanation as to what 
circumstances will have an impact on his NCD. But I think  UKI has provided sufficient 
information here to show Mr R how his NCD may be affected in the event of a claim. 
Its not our role to regulate insurers and decide  how it should write  its policy.  But UKIs 
approach here is standard across  the motor  industry and so I dont find it unusual. 
What is also standard  is for a claim to remain open  and therefore  be treated as a fault 
claim  until its settled.  I understand  Mr R doesnt  agree with this process as he feels it 
treats him as being  guilty until proven innocent. 
Most insurers have signed up to record  claims  on a central database and the details they 
record include the costs  of the claim  and whether a customers  NCD has been allowed. The 
Ref: DRN23501124term fault is used in the industry where an insurer hasnt been able to recover all of its costs  
from a third party. So even if a customer may not be at fault  for a claim - if the claim 
incurred costs for the insurer  which it couldnt  recover, this will still have an impact on a 
customers NCD if it hasnt been  protected. 
So because UKI is still investigating the claim and it remains in dispute,  this means it has 
correctly recorded  Mr Rs claim  as an open  claim which unfortunately affected his renewal 
premium. However, if UKI settles the claim and is able to recover  the costs of the claim  from 
a third party, it should update the claim and apply a retrospective adjustment to Mr Rs 
premium and NCD. 
Because UKI intends  to dispute the third party claim,  and the third party appears to equally 
intend to pursue it, I cant hold UKI responsible for the length of time its taking  to settle. 
Claims that are in dispute and look likely to involve court action will unfortunately take much  
longer to settle than claims where liability  is agreed  early on. 
I understand its upsetting to deal with a claim  especially in these circumstances where 
Mr R believes  he wasnt involved. But based on what Ive seen, I think  UKI has dealt with 
Mr Rs complaint in a reasonable way. As Mr R's insurer,  it received a claim against his 
policy and so its obliged  to deal with it. So I cant ask it to close  the claim before its settled.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2350112