K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I realise  this will come as a disappointment to Mr G. 
Ill explain  why I reached this decision.
I know Mr G feels  Halifax  simply rolled over  the policy  from a previous mortgage to the 
mortgage protected by this policy. So he doesnt  feel he was given a fair choice. But based 
on what I know about how Halifax sold MPPI at this time, I think  it wouldve presented the 
policy as optional and asked Mr G to confirm whether he wanted it. On balance, I think  its 
likely Halifax made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the MPPI  and he chose to take 
it.
Halifax recommended  the MPPI to Mr G so it had to check that the MPPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover. And 
although he had some other means to pay the mortgage if unable to work, I dont think these 
meant the cover couldnt have been useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  his responses to the adjudicator. But 
these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr G paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr G back some of the 
cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. I understand Halifax  has already 
paid this to Mr G. 
Ref: DRN26467202my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2646720