K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he got poor service  from RAC  Insurance Limited when he made a claim  
on his motor breakdown  policy.
background
On 3 June 2017 Mr B was abroad, part way to his holiday destination, when his car broke 
down. When he called  RAC for assistance  he says it couldnt  find his policy at first. The 
engineer who inspected the car couldnt  fix it at the roadside. Local garages were all closed 
until 6 June 2017, so the car was towed to the breakdown firms depot. Mr B says he had to 
wait over four hours (without  any facilities) for a taxi to take him and his partner to a hotel.  
Mr B says the car didnt go into a garage  until 7 June 2017.  It ordered the wrong  parts, so 
the work  wasnt finished until 13 June  2017. Meanwhile Mr B says RAC  delayed in extending 
the hotel booking, so he and his partner had to leave their room and then go back to it. He 
wasnt happy that he had to pay for the cars  repairs, as he thought the policy  covered those 
costs. When the garage wouldnt accept his type of card for payment, RAC said it would 
cover the bill. Mr B says he wasnt aware RAC  would debit his card for that sum. And he 
says if hed known  he was liable for the full cost of repairs,  hed have scrapped the car. 
Shortly after Mr B and his partner set off to complete their journey,  the car broke down again. 
Mr B says RACs  advisor  was unhelpful, so he had to call the police to intervene. He says 
the second garage that checked the car told him the engine failure was partly due to 
previous poor repairs, and that the car wasnt now repairable. 
Mr Bs also unhappy that the cost of food,  drinks and phone  charges werent covered by 
RAC. And he doesnt think he should have been charged for the full policy, as he only had it 
for a few weeks before the car was written-off.   
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Bs complaint. He thought RAC had dealt with Mr Bs 
claim fairly. He noted that RAC had upheld several  aspects  of the complaint Mr B made  to it 
(some of which he hadnt complained to us about). RAC had apologised  and offered Mr B 
£200 compensation. It said he should  have been  kept more  informed when waiting  for the 
initial taxi it organised. It accepted it delayed in extending the hotel booking.  It agreed that a 
taxi it booked shouldnt  have left him at a hotel  300 metres  from the reserved one. And it 
agreed that it should have checked  the second  garage was open before sending  him to it. As 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators view, his complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr B faced  a small amount of inconvenience  when RAC couldnt  initially find his 
policy. It seems  hed only taken it out a few days earlier and it wasnt  yet uploaded  to the 
system. But an engineer  was sent to assess the car within a reasonable time. The day of the 
breakdown was a Saturday, and the following  Monday  was a national  holiday in the country  
Mr B was in at the time.  So repairs couldnt be arranged until Tuesday, 6 June 2017. I think  
that was unavoidable. RACs file notes  show that it tried to get his car into a garage as soon 
as it could, but it wasnt possible until Wednesday, 7 June 2017.
Ref: DRN25424302I can see why Mr B would  have been unhappy to have to wait a few hours  at the breakdown  
services depot, especially  as there were no facilities there. But I think the notes  show  that 
RAC was searching  for a suitable hotel, and as soon  as it found one, it sent a taxi to collect  
Mr B and his partner. Part of the compensation RAC offered was to reflect the lack of 
updates he got during that time.
Mr B believes that RAC is responsible for the work carried out by the garage,  as it chose 
where his car was taken. But under the policy, RAC only undertakes to recover  a car to a 
local repairer. Local  garages are independent  businesses, not a part of RAC. The policy  
documents say that RAC will only make a contribution to a garages labour costs  if the car 
can be repaired by it the same day. That doesnt apply here. So I dont think  RAC was 
required to pay for Mr Bs repairs. And I dont think its liable  for any poor repair  work  carried 
out by the garage  or for the ordering of the wrong  parts.
I think Mr B may have been confused  by RACs offer to cover the garages charges when the 
garage wouldnt accept  his card. RAC  was trying to assist Mr B by settling the bill, as that 
meant the garage  handed back the car to him. Mr B may not have understood the situation, 
but I dont think  RAC did anything wrong in debiting his card. He would always  have had to 
pay for the repairs anyway, so he didnt lose out. The cost of the repairs  rose from the initial 
estimate, but RAC  can show  it told Mr B that before  the repairs  started. So he could have 
chosen not to have  them done if he thought the cost was too high given the cars value.
RAC has accepted  that it didnt extend Mr Bs hotel accommodation quickly  enough when it 
emerged that the repairs would take longer than expected. I think Mr B and his partner would 
have been inconvenienced by having  to check out of their room and then check back  into it 
again. RAC also accepted that Mr B and his partner were dropped  off at the wrong  hotel and 
had to walk 300 metres  to the right one. That would have caused  them  further 
inconvenience, but I think the compensation RAC offered was intended to make up for that.  
From RACs notes,  it looks as though Mr B was with a police officer when  he called RAC 
after the cars second breakdown. The notes suggest that he asked the police officer  to 
speak to RACs advisor as there was a language  difficulty  between  him and the advisor.  
Theres nothing in the notes to show that the advisor was rude to Mr B.
In a later call between Mr B, a translator  and RAC, it seems Mr B or the translator raised  the 
issue of having  Mr Bs car scrapped. Mr B had already  said that if hed known  how much the 
original repairs would  cost, hed have scrapped  the car. And from what  he told us, the 
second garage told him it couldnt then be repaired. RAC said it paid the £159.68 scrappage 
charge, but theres nothing to show that it was involved in the decision to write-off  the car.
According to the notes,  RAC told Mr B it would pay the train fares to his holiday destination.  
RAC says it paid the £290.66 for those. It says it also paid £74.78  for a taxi Mr B had to take 
to the second  garage  as it was unexpectedly closed on his first visit - in order to collect  his 
belongings from the car. I think  it was reasonable for RAC to charge  Mr B for the full cost of 
his policy. Thats standard practice  when a claim has been  made  on a policy.  So as far as I 
can see, Mr B was only left out of pocket for items that the policy didnt cover.  Those items 
included not only the cost of repairs, but the cost of food, drinks and telephone calls. The 
policy documents show they arent  covered.
I understand why Mr B was so upset with the situation. His trip was badly affected by the 
cars breakdown and its later loss. Its clear  from what Mr B told us that he believed  the 
breakdown policy would  cover any costs  or losses that arose  following a breakdown.  So he 
Ref: DRN25424303was very disappointed to find that wasnt the case.  Mr B told us there was no point in having 
a breakdown policy if all the costs arising  from a breakdown  werent covered.
Although I can see why Mr B was upset, the major reason for having a breakdown  policy is 
to avoid being left at the roadside with a vehicle that has broken down. Having such a policy  
meant that as Mr Bs car couldnt be repaired at the roadside, it was taken to a garage. The 
policy also covered  the costs of hotels, taxis and onward travel by train for him. So although 
the policys cover was limited, I think it fulfilled  its purpose.
In my opinion, RAC acted  reasonably overall in dealing with Mr Bs claim. I think it made  a 
reasonable attempt to put right the matters it got wrong by apologising, giving feedback to 
staff and offering  Mr B compensation. For those reasons, I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2542430