K822xcomplaint
Mr N has complained that Allianz Insurance plc wrongly told him he wasnt  insured  when  he 
called from abroad  following an incident. Mr N made  a claim under his car insurance policy. 
All reference to the underwriter Allianz includes it agents. 
background 
Mr N bought a car insurance policy through an administrator. The underwriter of his policy  is 
Allianz. Mr N was involved in an incident while driving abroad. His policy  provided 
comprehensive insurance while driving  in the country.
When Mr N reported the incident to Allianz,  it incorrectly told him he wasnt insured. Mr N 
was on his way to a weekend  trip. The incident happened at the port. Mr N said the damage 
meant he wasnt able to secure  his car. Because of the information Allianz gave him, he had 
no choice but to drive  his car back to the UK. 
Mr N said it took a week for Allianz  to correct its decision. Mr N complained. He also 
complained about the delays Allianz caused,  his time spent on calls,  and the repairs carried 
out to his car by an approved repairer (AR).  He said the repairs  were poor and not all repairs 
had been done. 
Allianz upheld  part of Mr Ns complaint.  It apologised  for giving Mr N incorrect  information 
when he reported  the incident.  And it said it caused a delay  of one day in arranging repairs 
Allianz paid him £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused  
It said some  of the damage Mr N reported wasnt caused by the incident. And it asked Mr N 
to contact the AR as it wasnt aware of Mr N s concerns about the repairs it had carried out.
Mr N remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at his complaint. He believed he was mis-sold 
the policy as it hadnt  provided the cover  hed paid for. He said the repairs  were  shoddy and 
as a result  his car has depreciated in value by around £6,000.
The investigator thought Allianz hadnt  done  enough  to resolve Mr Ns complaint. He found 
that Allianz had caused delay in dealing with Mr Ns personal belongings  claim by two 
months. For this, he recommended Allianz pay Mr N a further £150 compensation. 
He thought Allianz had fairly  compensated Mr N for the inconvenience  and distress caused 
by incorrectly telling  him he wasnt insured  and the delay in arranging  repairs in the UK. 
He thought Allianz had fairly  dealt  with Mr Ns complaint about the repairs. It was for Mr N to 
let the AR know of the concerns he had so that it could investigate  further. 
Allianz accepted  the investigators  recommendation to pay Mr N a further £150 
compensation. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said if Allianz had properly dealt with his claim, it would have cost it 
around £2,000  in courtesy car and repatriation costs. Mr N believes he should receive a full 
refund of the premium he paid for his policy. He doesnt feel weve considered  the impact of 
Allianzs failings.
Ref: DRN22560372Mr N believes  Allianz should  receive  a fine to prevent it from providing a similar service to 
others. 
Or investigator explained that our role is to informally resolve complaints on their own merits. 
The role of the Financial  Conduct Authority is to regulate businesses. So it isnt for us to fine 
or punish a business. He explained  that as Mr N made a claim once he returned  to the UK, 
hed received the benefit of the policy. 
Mr N said he shouldnt have to pay for something he didnt receive.  So he wants  an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no dispute that Allianz gave Mr N incorrect information when he called to report the 
incident. I understand Mr Ns strength of feeling  about the impact Allianzs failings had on 
him. Obviously if it had provided the correct information, the outcome would have been 
different. Mr N said he was travelling outbound for a weekend away. Ive no doubt  that being  
told he wasnt insured   and then having to rearrange travel back to the UK instead  was 
upsetting as well as inconvenient.  
Allianz caused a further short delay in arranging for Mr Ns car to be repaired. I know Mr N 
doesnt believe the compensation Allianz paid of £250 is enough. The awards  which we give 
for distress and inconvenience  are modest,  taking into account things like the level of 
inconvenience, the length of time and the impact on a customer.  
I think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when having to make a claim. Its 
inevitable. In this case, I think  £250  is a fair compensation sum for the incorrect information 
and delay in arranging repairs. 
Allianz caused further delay in dealing with Mr Ns personal belongings claim for two months. 
For this I think  Allianz should pay Mr N an additional  £150  compensation. 
This means  that Allianz has paid Mr N £400  compensation for the poor service  and delay it 
caused when  dealing with his claim. I think overall this is reasonable and in line with similar 
awards which we give.  
Mr N is unhappy with the repairs carried out by the AR. We generally think  its right for an 
insurer to arrange  for an AR to consider rectifying any repairs  a customer may be unhappy 
with. Allianz explained to Mr N that the AR would consider the concerns he had about the 
repairs. I think Allianzs approach here was reasonable.  
Mr N raised concerns about  the design  of his car and other faults  but Allianz said these 
were not repairs related  to the incident. So unless Mr N has independent  evidence  to 
support his claim for Allianz  to consider,  I dont think its done anything  wrong by not carrying 
out repairs which werent caused by the incident. If Mr N remains dissatisfied,  he can raise a 
new complaint with Allianz.  
As Allianz  has dealt  with a claim under Mr Ns policy, hes received the benefit of it. I 
appreciate that Mr N doesnt agree.  Although Allianz  provided incorrect  information,  this 
Ref: DRN22560373doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold  to Mr N. I think the compensation of £400  is a fair sum 
for the inconvenience  Allianzs error and delay caused. So I dont think  hes entitled to a 
refund of his premium.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Allianz  Insurance  plc to do 
the following:
Pay Mr N £150 compensation in addition  to the £250 its already paid him for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
Allianz Insurance plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Allianz considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2256037