K820x#14complaint
Mr W took out a Tech  Pack  with Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) from January  2017 for 
which he was charged monthly fees. He says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr W took out an Additions Active Account (AAA) in June  2010.
Mr W was then transferred by Barclays to a current account with a Travel Pack and a Tech  
Pack in January 2017.
Mr W says this complaint is about  the Tech Pack; he didnt want it and didnt know  he had it, 
so Barclays has mis-sold it to him.
Barclays says it didnt  do anything wrong  in the sale.
Our adjudicator also thought that Barclays didnt do anything wrong but Mr W disagrees so 
the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ws complaint.
In 2016, the AAA that Mr W had had for twelve years cost £15 a month. Its main benefits  
were worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, free mobile  phone  insurance, and 
gadget insurance.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr W in September 2016 saying it was closing AAAs and it offered  
him a current account with a Travel Pack and a Tech Pack  instead.  The Travel  Pack  
(worldwide travel insurance) and Tech Pack (mobile phone and gadget insurance) had the 
same main  benefits as the AAA and cost £18 a month together  in total.  In its letter  Barclays 
explained that he could have a fee free account  but if it didnt hear from him, it would transfer 
his account to the current account with Travel Pack  and Tech  Pack.
Mr W didnt reply so Barclays  says it wrote to him again in January 2017  saying  his account 
was now a current account with Travel and Tech Pack, but he could cancel it at any time.
Barclays says that in September 2017  Mr W complained that he didnt want  the Tech pack 
but after a discussion  Mr W decided to keep it. Mr W says this didnt  happen.
Ive looked at the letters Barclays sent to Mr W in September 2016 and January 2017. They 
are correctly addressed  so I think its more likely than not that he received at least  one of 
these. And I think there is enough information in either of the first two letters to enable Mr W to 
realise what was happening and make  an informed decision.
Ive also looked  at the records Barclays has provided of a phone conversation with Mr W about  
the Tech Pack in September  2017 and the letter they subsequently sent him closing his 
complaint. Based on these I think its more likely than not that this conversation took place and 
matters were resolved  to Mr Ws satisfaction.
Ref: DRN23092512So, although  I dont  doubt Mr Ws honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that he 
did receive one of the original letters notifying him of the change  in September 2106  and 
January 2017,  and didnt  reply, hence  facilitating the account change.  And  I think  he accepted 
the change after the discussion with Barclays in September 2017.
Mr W says that he never entered into a contract  with Barclays  for the Tech Pack.  But my role 
in this is to decide what is fair and reasonable taking everything into account. And having done 
so, although I know Mr W will be disappointed,  I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong in the 
Tech Pack sale, and I cant uphold Mr Ws complaint.
For completeness Mr W requested that I listen to his complaint call to Barclays in February 
2019. I have done so and there is nothing in that that would  affect the outcome of my decision. 
As explained by our adjudicator, Mr Ws complaint to us about  the way Barclays  handled his 
complaint (as opposed to the substance  of his complaint) is not something I can look into 
because complaint handling  by banks is not a regulated activity.  
Mr W is now free to accept or reject my decision and Id like to re-assure  him that if he rejects 
my decision  he can still pursue his legal arguments  in a court if he wishes  to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2309251