K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr E says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr E bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections 
Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of PPI), life cover  and critical illness  cover. 
Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover only.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr E aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his mortgage. I dont know for certain  what was said when the policy  was sold,  
and there  isnt much paperwork  available, but from what we know about how Halifax sold 
this type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax made Mr E aware the PPI was optional,  
and he chose to take it out, although I can understand  why he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr E so it had to check  that the policy was right for him. 
Mr E has told us he was entitled  to generous  sick pay and had savings  at the time he took 
the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to, and for longer than Mr E received 
sick pay, and would have allowed him to keep his savings in place  to be used towards any 
other essential costs  he may have had.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr E has said - but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr E paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr E back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr E.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Ref: DRN22920812Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2292081