K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains that she was mis-sold a Platinum  Added Value Account (PAVA)  by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mrs V held a bank account with Lloyds from 1981.  Her first account (s) did not have a fee.
She took out a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA)  in September  2001 which  incurred a 
monthly fee.
Mrs V upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) in November 2007 which  also 
incurred a monthly fee.
Lloyds has said that the GAVA was mis-sold and paid Mrs V redress  as a result. But Lloyds 
has said that the PAVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Vs complaint and decided that Lloyds response  was fair 
and reasonable.  Mrs V disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Vs complaint.
As I know Mrs V has wanted  to get clarity about what this case  covers,  Ill explain what Im 
looking into and also importantly what this decision  does not cover. Mrs V was originally 
banking with Lloyds  TSB.  This company separated into Lloyds Bank and TSB in 2013.  After  
the separation  Lloyds  Bank took responsibility for sales such as this which  Lloyds TSB did 
before the separation. So the sale of the PAVA, which Im satisfied took place in 2007  (see 
below), is the subject  of this case and is the responsibility of Lloyds Bank.
My decision  here does not cover Mrs Vs later complaints about the way TSB has handled 
her account  in recent years  that is being  dealt  with by TSB and would need to be a 
separate case with us if it doesnt get resolved.  This decision also does  not cover any issues  
Mrs V has mentioned she might have  about the redress offered by Lloyds  for the mis-sale  of 
her GAVA.  These, if she has any, would  need  to be raised with Lloyds first and then if not 
resolved would need to come to this service as a further separate case 
Ill now go on to consider the sale of the PAVA and for simplicity will refer only to Lloyds as 
the seller below. Mrs V says the PAVA  was mis-sold. In my view,  I dont agree and Ill 
explain why.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs V was aware  she could have an account with no fee 
at any time as shed  had one without a fee for many  years, and they have always been 
openly available from many banks and financial institutions. 
In November 2007, Mrs V had had a GAVA for several years and she says the account was 
upgraded to a PAVA without her knowledge.  I dont doubt her honest recollections, but I 
Ref: DRN22707832think she is mistaken. I say this because Lloyds has provided  copies of her statements which 
show that they were  branded as Platinum  from November 2007, and it has provided records  
of the charges for the account  which appeared on the statements showing the fee went up 
from £10, the GAVA  charge,  to £17, the PAVA charge around this time. I think its more  likely 
than not that Mrs V wouldve  noticed  this change. The change also happened when Mrs V 
was taking out a loan with Lloyds and Lloyds has provided evidence that she was in 
discussion with them. Considering all this I dont think I can reasonably say that its more 
likely than not that she had no idea at the time that she had taken out the PAVA as I would 
need to do to uphold her complaint on this point.
So I think Mrs V knew  the PAVA was optional and she chose to take out the PAVA based on 
Lloyds advice and information.
As Lloyds  advised  Mrs V to take out the PAVA  it needed to not only provide her with 
sufficient information  about the PAVA to make an informed choice. It also needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure  that the PAVA  was a reasonable fit for Mrs Vs circumstances.
The PAVA contained a range of benefits including Worldwide travel  insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance,  sentinel card protection,  commission free travel 
money, access to UK airport  lounges,  a free overdraft of up to £250, and higher credit rates 
for the current account. 
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mrs V but I think she would have 
been interested in and eligible for these benefits.  I say this because she did travel regularly 
with her family, the car breakdown cover benefited  her even if she wasnt  the driver  or owner 
of the broken down car and she has said that she was regularly in an overdraft position on 
her account.  Lloyds has also provided  evidence that a mobile phone was registered for 
insurance cover.
Mrs V says that the travel insurance excluded both her and her husband due to pre-existing 
medical conditions.  But the insurance  didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions; it only 
required Mrs V to notify the insurer about  them.
Mrs V could also have closed the PAVA  at any time, but she didnt for many years. And the 
fact that she didnt use all the benefits was a matter of choice for her.
So in my view Lloyds  advice to Mrs V to take out the PAVA was suitable. And there was no 
information that she didnt receive that would likely have put her off it. So I dont think Mrs V 
lost out by taking  out the PAVA or through anything Lloyds  may have done wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2270783