K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them an 
HSBC Plus packaged bank account  in 2005.  They paid a monthly fee for the account  which  
provided several benefits in return.
background
Mr Ms account was opened as a sole fee-free account, and it was upgraded to an HSBC  
Plus packaged account  at some point in August 2005. At the time the account  was 
upgraded, the account was still in Mr Ms sole name.  Mrs M was added  as a joint party  in 
April 2007.
Although Mr and Mrs M have both brought this complaint to our service, Ill primarily refer to 
Mr M in my decision, as the packaged account was sold to him.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the packaged account to Mr M and 
didnt recommend that HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs M any compensation. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think the packaged bank 
account was mis-sold  to Mr M. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr M was given a fair choice when he took the 
packaged bank  account.
Mr M took the packaged bank account by switching from a free account. And Ive seen that 
Mr M says he was told only certain  customers qualified for the Plus account  so he was 
privileged to be able to have it.
I dont know exactly what conversation Mr M had with HSBC when he upgraded his account, 
and I accept its possible that he mayve been  told only certain  customers  could upgrade.  But 
even if that were the case, it doesnt  make me think that Mr M was left with no other option 
but to upgrade. I understand  that he might  now think that he upgraded for the wrong reason, 
but I think that Mr M was aware that he had a choice, and I havent seen anything to make 
me think he couldnt have kept his fee-free account  if hed wanted to.
Ref: DRN21468462I dont think that HSBC recommended the Plus account to Mr M. So it didnt have to check  
whether the accounts features were right for him. But HSBC had to give Mr M enough clear 
information about the Plus account for him to decide if he wanted  it. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr M was interested in some  of the benefits of the Plus 
account and chose it because of these  benefits. 
The main  insurance  benefit  of the Plus account in 2005 was worldwide travel insurance.  I 
can see that Mr M travelled abroad  a couple of times in the year he upgraded, as well as in 
the following  year. So I think its likely he knew about the Plus accounts travel  insurance,  
and couldve  relied on it if hed needed to. Fortunately he didnt need to make  a claim on the 
travel insurance policy, but that doesnt mean it wasnt right for him..
Mr M also benefited from a number of fee-free  overseas cash withdrawals  which hed have 
paid for if hed held a fee-free account.  I understand that these withdrawals alone wouldnt 
necessarily have warranted the Plus accounts  monthly fee, but I do think its likely that this 
was something else that appealed to Mr M before he upgraded, given his pattern of travel 
afterwards.
Our adjudicator noted that Mr M had received a £100 cashback bonus on a mortgage he 
arranged through  HSBC,  as a result of holding the Plus account. Mr M disagreed  with this 
point as he says hes never held a mortgage with HSBC.
HSBC has provided  evidence to show that the £100 Mr M received was a Plus account 
incentive, linked to the arrangement of a mortgage. It has also sent me an extract from its 
systems showing  that Mr M has held three separate mortgage accounts, and a copy of a 
redemption letter from Mr Ms previous mortgage lender when he transferred that mortgage 
to HSBC. 
Given what Ive seen,  and the fact that Mr M received the £100  mortgage  cashback incentive 
on 25 August 2005, Im satisfied that he most likely arranged a mortgage  on or around  the 
same date as upgrading his account. And I think the cashback he received was likely  
something that made him decide to do so. 
I accept its possible that HSBC didnt tell Mr M everything it should have about the Plus 
account. And with the benefit  of hindsight Mr and Mrs M might not feel the Plus accounts 
benefits were good value  for money  compared with the monthly fees they paid. But I havent 
seen enough to make me think that Mr M wouldnt  still have taken the account when he did, 
even if HSBC had told him more  about  it. 
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive looked at all the information  I have  about  their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mr M in August 2005. So I dont think it owes  Mr and Mrs 
M any money.
Ref: DRN21468463my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2146846