K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont pay her home  insurance  claim for 
damage to her armchair.
background
Ms M made  a claim to UKI after her front window was smashed by a hammer being thrown 
through it, with broken glass causing  damage, she said, to an armchair and a sofa.  She 
submitted photos  of the damage  and UKI sent out an expert  to inspect it. That expert found 
that both the sofa and the armchair were badly damaged but in a way inconsistent with 
damage by glass in the way described by Ms M. They  found  that in particular the sofa was in 
poor condition  due to wear and tear and that both items were so badly  damaged to be 
beyond economic repair (BER). They identified holes and cat claw marks in both items. They  
found shards of glass fragments in the armchair  but not the sofa.
UKI declined  to pay the claim as it said the damage wasnt  consistent with the incident 
described and that both items had suffered severe  wear and tear before the incident causing  
them to be beyond economic repair.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that the complaint should  be upheld.  She 
said that as Ms M was only claiming for the armchair  and as there was evidence  of shards of 
glass being embedded in the leather, it was no longer fit for purpose. But taking into account  
the wear and tear to the item,  she thought it was fair for UKI to pay 50% of the cost of the 
armchair. 
UKI disputed  the investigators conclusions. It says it was clear that Ms M was also claiming 
for the sofa. Its expert's report said that both items  were BER whereas we only have Ms Ms 
word for it that the chair  is fine.
Our investigator pointed  out that Ms M was now only claiming for the chair and that despite 
any cosmetic  damage she was able to use it before  the incident but was no longer  able to 
because of the glass fragments in the leather. 
UKI didnt  say anything  further. Ms M accepted  our investigators conclusions  and sent in 
some photos  of the armchair.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence Ive seen it appears  that its not disputed that the incident described by 
Ms M took place. That is a hammer was thrown  through her window. She says that both sofa 
and armchair were damaged. I accept from UKIs experts report  that there is insufficient 
evidence to say that the sofa was affected by the incident and Ms M doesnt seek  to claim 
for this anymore. As UKI hasnt said that the incident or damage were  falsely  reported, I 
think it fair to accept that Ms M is now only claiming for the armchair.
Ref: DRN20463532As UKI has said, our conclusions are evidence based. The evidence of the damage to the 
armchair consists  of UKIs contractors report and Ms Ms photos  of it. Whilst according to 
UKI its expert found, there was structural damage to the sofa, what  they actually said about  
the armchair was:
The leather armchair  was also in a poor state pre incident as there were several puncture 
and hole marks to the top sides and rear section and inconsistent  scratch marks with also 
cat claw damages to the arm and side panels,  which again were  inconsistent with the 
incident.  
The photos  show scratch  marks and holes  but they dont appear to me to show that the 
armchair is unusable.  I bear in mind that UKIs expert hasnt said that the armchair has any 
structural damage to it. As for actual damage  from the incident  the report  said On close 
inspection of the sofa and armchair we found small shards of glass  fragments in the leather 
surface of the armchair  but not the 3 seater  sofa. So the evidence  would appear to show  
that the armchair  was damaged by glass and if fragments of it are still embedded in the 
leather, it would not be able to be used any more. Put simply scratches and holes dont 
affect the use of the chair but embedded glass fragments  do.
As its a new for old policy,  UKI might on the face of it have to pay for the replacement 
armchair and half the cost of the undamaged (by the incident) sofa (on the basis  that the 
sofa forms part of a matching set with the chair). But we also have to assess what  is fair and 
reasonable. I think it likely that the damage  to the armchair just by the glass  might have been 
repairable but with the scratches and holes causing the chair to be classed as damaged 
beyond repair, I can understand why UKI feels its unrepairable.  
So in those  circumstances  I think that the investigators proposal, that UKI pay 50% of the 
value of the armchair  is fair and reasonable. To be clear, that figure, from UKIs experts 
report is £375 (50% of £699, and 50% of the £50 delivery charge). UKI should  pay that sum, 
less any excess payable.  Because  it could have repaired the chair but for its pre-incident 
damage, I dont think it would be fair to make  it pay anything for the matching sofa. In this 
case the lack of match that will result from Ms M replacing the chair has arisen due to the 
pre-incident damage, not the claim damage  or necessary resultant settlement. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay to Ms M £375, less any 
excess payable in settlement of her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2046353