K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc trading  as More Th>n (RSA) 
unfairly cancelled  her motor insurance policy, and that didnt let her know about  it which  
resulted in her car being seized by the police for being uninsured.
background 
Ms S took out a motor insurance policy which started  on 21 March 2018,  her daughter  L was a 
named driver on the policy. Ms S paid the policy  premium in full on a credit  card.
The policy began on 21 March 2018. On 7 May 2018 RSA contacted Ms S by email asking for 
her to provide proof of her No Claims Discount (NCD), it gave  a time allowance  of 21 days for her 
to do this. As it hadnt heard from her it wrote to her by letter on 4 June 2018 giving seven days 
notice of its intention  to cancel the policy.
Ms S received this and responded, sending RSA a copy  of her NCD. The NCD  proof  showed  that 
Ms S had earned 9 years NCD on another vehicle and confirmed that this wasnt  in use. Ms S 
also included a copy of her daughters NCD who was a named  driver, which was at the time on a 
live policy. 
RSA wrote to Ms S on 13 June 2018 asking for further  information,  this letter  also informed  Ms S 
that if RSA didnt have a response by 27 June 2018 it would cancel  the policy. Ms S has told us 
that she didnt receive this letter. 
RSA sent a text message  to Ms S on 3 July 2018, the text message said we have tried to call 
you today please call us. Ms S has told us that she had thought this was a marketing  call and so 
didnt call back. 
RSA cancelled the policy on 18 July 2018 and backdated this to 27 June  2018,  and sent a letter 
confirming this and on 19 July 2018 RSA issued a refund to Ms S credit  card. Ms S had no 
knowledge of the refund  as the credit card was only used to pay for the insurance  and paid off 
immediately afterwards and has not been used since.  She has told us she had not checked the 
balance of the credit  card online as it is only kept for emergencies. 
In September of 2018 Ms S was stopped by the Police for driving her car without  insurance, the 
car was impounded, and it was at this point she called RSA became aware the policy  had been 
cancelled. During this call the RSA advisor  told Ms S that it had not notified her of the 
cancellation and so they would honour  the cover.
Ms S complained to RSA about the issues. RSA said the advisor had given the wrong advice and 
offered Ms S £150 in compensation  for this but found that the cancellation had been fair and that 
it notified her of it.
Ms S was unhappy with this and so brought her complaint to our service, specifically raising 
shed had to:
Buy a temporary insurance policy to have  the car released from the Police impound  at a 
cost of £297.80 for 30 days,
Pay £150  fine for having the car confiscated; and
Was due to attend court to defend the charge of driving  without  insurance
Ref: DRN28915162Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint saying he felt RSA had acted fairly, Ms S 
didnt accept this and so the matter  was passed  to me to decide.
I looked at this complaint  and felt the issue  wasnt  to do with the notification of the cancellation 
but the fairness of the cancellation  in the first place. I spoke to RSA and explained to them that I 
didnt think  it was fair for them to have cancelled the policy  as the NCD  entitlement that Ms S had 
provided shouldve been acceptable. NCD is earned by the person  and not the car and she had 
provided evidence to show she had it and it wasnt  being used  at the time, and so the 
cancellation should never have happened. 
I asked RSA to put things  right, RSA didnt  see things quite the same way but did agree to 
provide Ms S a letter of indemnity to take to the court to help her defend the charge.  I passed the 
case back to the investigator to review once the court matter had been settled.
Ms S was able to successfully defend the claim  in court with the letter  and so our investigator  
issued his new answer on the case,  in summary he said:
RSA, had unfairly cancelled the policy and so should  put Ms S back in the position  she wouldve  
been in if it hadnt cancelled the policy by paying:
£150 for the car being impounded
£297.80 for the emergency 30 day policy
£118.84 for Ms S half day unpaid leave  to attend  court  evidence was provided of this
£500 compensation for the trouble  and upset of having to attend  court 
RSA didnt agree so the matter was passed back to me to decide. Before issuing my decision,  I 
did speak  to RSA and asked the investigator to notify  Ms S that I agree  mostly with what the 
investigator has said but I think RSA should only pay the difference between what  it wouldve 
charged for the 30 days cover and what Ms S had to pay for the emergency cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
my position  hasnt changed and Im going  to uphold this complaint, Ill explain.
The dispute  between Ms S and RSA regarding whether it notified her properly  or not about  
the cancellation, stems from the cancellation itself. Before I can consider if the notifications 
were done  correctly, I need to be satisfied the cancellation  was applied fairly  in the first 
place. As I have previously explained  to RSA, I dont  think it was here.
Ms S provided RSA with proof of 9 years  NCD, although  it was earned with another  vehicle 
the document clearly stated that the NCD wasnt being used now. RSA shouldve  accepted 
this as proof of NCD and never cancelled the policy. All other issues have arisen from this 
cancellation and so Im satisfied  that RSA did something wrong  here and must do something 
to put it right.
Ref: DRN28915163my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above Im upholding  Ms S complaint against  Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
To put things right I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
£150 for the car being impounded
Calculate the difference  between what  Ms S wouldve paid for the 30 days cover on her 
RSA policy  and what she actually  paid on the emergency  policy and pay this amount to 
Ms S
£118.84 for Ms S half day unpaid leave  to attend  court 
Add 8% simple interest  to the above  amounts from when  Ms S was out of pocket until 
they issue payment
£500 compensation for the trouble  and upset of having to attend  court and the 
embarrassment of being stopped by the Police
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to take off tax from this interest. Royal & Sun Alliance Plc must  
give Ms S a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2891516