K820x#14complaint
This complaint arises from a property Mrs H bought with a mortgage provided by Lloyds 
Bank PLC. The property  turned out to have serious  structural defects that Mrs H and her 
husband have  had to have repaired at considerable cost and disruption  to them. Mrs H 
believes that Lloyds  (and Colleys, the now defunct  surveying arm of the group that also 
owns Lloyds) are to blame  for the problems not being correctly  identified before she bought  
the house.
background
The events leading up to the complaint are complex;  I summarise the key points below, 
confining myself to those  matters on which I consider the outcome of the case  will turn.
Ms Hs mortgage application was originally  for another property, but the survey report  on that 
property (carried out by Colleys) was unfavourable.  Mrs H found another property to buy 
(which Ill refer to as W) and Colley was again instructed to inspect it. The instruction was 
for a Level Two intermediate report,  Colleys carried it out and Mrs H went  ahead  with the 
purchase.
After completion, Mrs H and her husband found  the property to have severe problems that 
theyve spent much of the past two years  getting remedied, at huge cost financially. They 
raised a complaint about the content  of the survey report; aside  from the many  defects,  
theyd established  that the original property construction  dated  back to the late 1950s, with 
later extensions added to it. This conflicted with the report, which  said it had been built in the 
late 1980s. Mrs H believes that if the construction date had been correctly  identified, then a 
specialist report for the presence of red ash would  have  been required.
The complaint has been with us since June 2019, and its only relatively recently that weve 
explained to Mrs H that there are some limits  on what  we can deal with, and why. As the 
report itself was carried out by Colleys rather than Lloyds Bank  (the lender) weve  no 
jurisdiction to consider  whether there were any shortcomings in the content  of the report 
itself. 
That aspect  of the complaint needs to be referred  to either the Centre for Effective Dispute 
Resolution (CEDR) or the Royal  Institution of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS). Mrs H has told us 
that shes begun that process but thus far it isnt going well and she isnt confident of a 
satisfactory outcome.  Meanwhile, weve focussed on what our rules allow us to consider in a 
complaint against  Lloyds  in its role as the mortgage  provider. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Lloyds had done anything wrong, so didnt think it needed 
to do anything by way of redress to put things right for Mrs H. Mrs H asked for the complaint  
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing  so, she said that Lloyds was instrumental in the 
error over the age of the property, as it had given the information to Colleys in the initial 
instruction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22165532As lender, Lloyds  duty to Mrs H was to instruct a suitably-qualified valuer  to carry out the 
appropriate inspection.  Having considered everything both parties have  said and provided, 
Im satisfied it did that. My remit doesnt extend  to questioning the content of the survey 
report. This was the professional opinion of the surveyor  employed by Colleys.  Lloyds was 
entitled to rely on that opinion when deciding whether to provide the mortgage.
Im aware of the importance Mrs H has attached to the question over when W was 
constructed, and how it came to be stated in the report as the late 1980s rather  than the late 
1950s. Mrs H says Colleys must have been told that by Lloyds, as she didnt have any 
contact with Colleys about W. Colleys has said it tried to call Mrs H but without success, so 
had an email exchange with her instead.  I know this is important to Mrs H, but as far as the 
outcome of the complaint  against Lloyds is concerned, its actually a moot point.
When a lender instructs a valuer,  its normal for the lender to provide  basic details of the 
property, not least  to minimise the risk of the valuer inspecting the wrong property. But the 
responsibility for checking the accuracy of the information  it receives lies with the valuer, 
especially if that information is going  to form part of the content  of the report . 
So even if Lloyds did give an indicative construction date for W of the late 1980s in the 
instruction to Colleys, its not then liable to Mrs H for any potential  consequences of that 
being a mistake.  If Colleys  report incorporated an incorrect construction date, that needs to 
form part of Mrs Hs separate case to either CEDR or the RICS.  I can make no finding here 
on that; I have no remit to do so and it would be inappropriate for me to say anything  that 
might prejudice the outcome of Mrs Hs separate case.
Im very sorry that weve only recently  clarified the demarcation lines regarding what  we can 
deal with on Mrs Hs complaint. It can sometimes be confusing deciding  where the line is 
between the role of the lender and that of the valuer; its made harder where,  as here,  the 
company employing  the valuer is (or was) a subsidiary of the same  commercial group as the 
lender. It sometimes leads to businesses referring consumers to us in respect of complaints 
we later decide we cant deal with. 
But they were (until Colleys ceased operations)  separate  legal entities  from each other. 
Mrs H came to us with what she saw, understandably, as one complaint. In fact, there are 
two complaints, and we can only address  one of them. I dont  think  it would be fair to criticise 
the business for referring Mrs H to us; we generally advise that financial  businesses should 
always refer their consumers to us and well then apply our rules accordingly  on what we can 
and cant deal with. Its safer  than allowing businesses  to second guess our rules  for us.
I very much hope Mrs H is able to find an avenue pursue her complaint  about the content of 
the report; what I cant do here, however  frustrating  that may be for Mrs H, is consider that 
as something for which Lloyds is responsible.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.  
Ref: DRN22165533Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2216553