K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont pay his full claim made under a travel  
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers.  
background
Mr M lives in the UK. He was abroad and was due to fly home on Sunday  20 January 2019. 
That morning he discovered his passport was missing. The local British  Embassy  doesnt  
open on a Sunday, so he was unable to seek assistance in time and missed his flight.  
Mr M stayed  in his hotel an additional  night.  The following day he made  the necessary 
arrangements with the Embassy and returned  to the UK on a new flight  that evening.  Mr Ms 
policy provides cover  for certain expenses  incurred in relation to a lost passport and he 
made a claim. This section has a policy  limit of £350. 
Part of Mr Ms claim was for the cost of the flight home on 21 January 2019. Great Lakes 
paid the cost of an additional night in the hotel and for the permit  to enable  Mr M to travel  
home which totalled around  £270. But they wouldnt pay the further  £80 towards the flight  
(up to the £350  limit.)  Mr M thinks this is something that should be covered and complained. 
Great Lakes maintained their position  and highlighted part of the policy wording to support 
this, so Mr M brought  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt think it should  be upheld. She concluded that Great Lakes 
had acted fairly and didnt  recommend  they needed  to do more.  Mr M interprets the policy  
wording differently and still disagrees. So he has asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this is likely  to be disappointing  for 
Mr M, so let me explain  why.
Mr Ms policy says We will cover you for accidental loss, theft or damage of your passport 
while you are abroad.  We will pay extra travel, accommodation and communication 
expenses you have  to pay to get a temporary travel  permit  and the cost of the temporary  
travel permit. 
Mr M has provided an email from the British  Embassy  which  explains their process  when 
issuing a temporary travel permit.  It says We ask customers to present evidence  of their 
booked travel (or detailed  written travel plans,  if they are unable to book  ahead)  so that we 
can enter these new journey details in the emergency travel document  
Mr M says that having a flight  reference was a requirement for being issued with a temporary 
travel permit. As such  he says the cost of this should be covered under the policy  wording. 
Ref: DRN27039382Ive thought carefully about this point.  I think the primary reason Mr M purchased the flight 
for 21 January was as hed missed his scheduled flight on 20 January  as a consequence  of 
losing his passport.  The costs of a replacement flight in these circumstances are specifically 
excluded elsewhere  within  the policy. Within the missed departures section of the policy it 
explains that there is no cover for Any claim arising  directly or indirectly from denied 
boarding due to your inability to provide a valid passport 
Mr M has pointed  out that the cost of flights to return home  arent excluded under  the Loss  of 
Passport section of the policy.  He says the insurer cant chose to add an additional  exclusion 
from another section  of the policy that covers another set of circumstances. 
Ive considered this, but I still think the reason Mr M missed his flight  on 20 January was due 
to losing his passport. I accept flying home  was the only sensible option  for him. But the 
email from the Embassy also said they would also have accepted  detailed  written travel 
plans if he couldnt  have booked ahead. 
I dont agree that the flight was purchased solely to satisfy the requirements of the Embassy  
in issuing a travel permit.  I think the primary purpose of that flight  was to enable  Mr M to 
return home. And as such I dont  think Great Lakes are being unreasonable in declining to 
meet the cost of this. 
I understand the point Mr M is making,  but I think the policy  is clear  that it provides cover  for 
the costs involved  in getting to an Embassy and obtaining a permit  to travel, not for the 
onward travel itself.  
Looking at this complaint  as a whole, I dont  think  Great Lakes have acted  outside  the policy 
terms or unfairly. So Im not directing that they need to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2703938