K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about charges  TSB Bank plc has applied to her current account.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 23 January 2020.  A copy of this is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mrs S said my provisional decision didnt take into account her personal circumstances 
during the time the charges were  applied. Shes  given me details of the difficulties she was 
facing.
TSB didnt  comment on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the details Mrs S has provided and its clear she was going through  
a very difficult time due to health and other  problems. But she didnt tell TSB about her 
problems. As I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think  it was obvious from Mrs Ss 
conduct of her account that she was experiencing financial difficulty. And I cant reasonably  
say that TSB should have taken action  in respect  of issues that it wasnt  aware of. I dont, 
therefore intend to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23810932Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mrs S has a current account with TSB out of which she makes payments  by direct debit. During  more 
than half of the months since 2013 theres been at least one occasion  when there hasnt been  enough 
money in the account to cover a direct debit when  its been  taken. Mrs S doesnt have an agreed 
overdraft with TSB. So, whenever  there hasnt  been  enough money  to pay the direct debit in full, TSB 
has returned  it. TSB has then charged £10 for each unpaid direct  debit. TSB has also charged the 
account £6 for unauthorised overdraft usage on a few occasions.
In January 2019 Mrs S wrote  to TSB to complain about the fees it had charged her since January 
2013. She said shed been experiencing financial hardship and the charges made  by TSB had 
contributed to her situation. Mrs S didnt receive  a reply from TSB and she wrote again  in March 2019.
TSB said it hadnt received  the letter  Mrs S sent to it in January 2019.  It went on to say it hadnt made 
a mistake. It said it hadnt been made aware  that Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulties until it 
received her letter in March 2019. It considered the charges were lawful. It refunded  charges that had 
been made between January and April 2019  but it didnt offer to refund the remaining  charges.
Mrs S wasnt happy with TSBs response  to her complaint  and referred  it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. They  thought TSB should have 
realised Mrs S was struggling financially even though she didnt  inform it of this. They thought  TSB 
should refund all the charges it had applied to Mrs Ss account since 2014.
TSB didnt accept our investigators recommendation. It said it had written to Mrs S each time it 
applied charges  to her account and invited her to make contact. It said if she had done this it would 
have carried out an income and expenditure assessment and considered  appropriate support for her.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The charges that TSB has applied to Mrs Ss account are contractual. Mrs S has agreed to pay the 
charges in return for TSB providing her with a current account. She hasnt said TSB wasnt 
contractually entitled to make the charges.
The Supreme Court  made a ruling in 2009 which said account charges  cant  be challenged
on the basis they are too high or excessive. So, I can only look at whether  any mistakes
were made when TSB applied charges to Mrs Ss account.
Ive looked carefully at Mrs Ss bank statements. I havent seen anything to make me think  the 
charges were applied incorrectly. So, I dont  think there are any grounds for me to tell TSB to refund 
charges on this basis. But I would expect TSB to act positively and sympathetically once  it became 
aware of Mrs Ss financial difficulties. Mrs S didnt tell TSB about her financial difficulties until 2019  
and its refunded some charges it applied  since then.  I now need to consider if TSB ought  to have 
realised Mrs S was in financial difficulty before she told it she was.
The only regular payments going into the account since 2013 have been tax credits.  These havent 
been sufficient to cover all of the direct debits Mrs S has set up on the account  and from time to time 
shes transferred money to the account from other accounts she holds.
Ref: DRN23810933Mrs S says she lost her job in October 2015. But I havent seen any evidence that she told TSB this 
had happened. She doesnt  appear to have paid her earnings into the account  before she became 
unemployed so the statements dont show by how much her monthly  income was reduced. The tax 
credits continued to be paid to the account  after October 2015 and I note that, apart from one charge  
of £10 in December 2015, TSB didnt  make any charges between  August 2015 and May 2016.
Im not persuaded  that the fact that Mrs S didnt  always  have  enough money  in her account  to cover 
her direct debits would have necessarily alerted TSB to her financial difficulties. There  are other 
possible explanations for this. For example, Mrs S may have omitted to transfer funds to cover the 
direct debits before  they became payable.
I think  Mrs S should have  known  shed need to contact TSB to inform  it she was experiencing  
financial difficulty and to discuss how she could avoid paying the charges. She didnt  do this and the 
only way TSB could have known she was in financial difficulty was from her operation of the account.  
As Ive said above, I dont  think there was enough evidence from this to make TSB aware  of her 
financial difficulty.
Once Mrs S had told TSB about her financial difficulty it refunded some charges and invited her to 
discuss her financial situation so it could provide support  to her. I think  this was a reasonable 
response and, in all the circumstances,  Im not currently satisfied I can reasonably  require TSB to 
refund any further charges.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties  my provisional decision is I 
dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN2381093