K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains Close Brothers  Limited  are unfairly  pursuing  her for a debt which is not 
hers.
She would like any trace of this debt to be removed  from her credit file and to be 
compensated.
background
Mrs D received notice of some finance  which had been taken out with Close Brothers  in her 
name  she hadnt  applied  for this but was being asked to repay it.  She says this wasnt  the 
first time this had happened and that fraudsters had used her details to obtain  finance with 
Close Brothers before.
She complained to Close Brothers  but it did not uphold  her complaint.  It said it had 
approved the finance on the advice of the broker who had completed the application.
When Mrs D brought  the complaint to our service, our investigator did not think  she had 
been fairly treated.  She asked Close Brothers  to remove any trace  of finance which  Mrs D 
had not applied for, place a protective marker on CIFAS  in order  to protect  her from future  
fraudulent applications and pay £350 in compensation.
Mrs D agreed  to this outcome but Close Brothers  did not.  In response to the investigators 
view, it challenged  for the first time, whether  Mrs D was in fact an eligible complainant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have corresponded with Close Brothers  about the eligibility of Mrs D as a complainant  
and it now concedes the point.  It also accepts the offer of compensation of £350 and the 
removing of any details  from Mrs Ds credit  file. So whats now left for me to decide is the 
remainder of the redress.
Close Brothers submits it is unable to record the protective marker with CIFAS as it has no 
relationship with CIFAS.   It suggests  paying  Mrs D the £25 needed so that she is able to 
record the marker herself.
Mrs D says this is just another example  of Close Brothers being obstructive and unwilling to 
help her.
Ive thought about how the marker  should be resolved and I think  if Mrs D were to place the 
marker herself then she can be certain that it has been  done.  I can see she clearly  feels 
Close Brothers have not been proactive in dealing with her complaint  so this way, she can 
be satisfied she has actioned it herself.   So, I think a fair resolution is for her to do this and 
for Close Brothers to compensate her for it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN22028002Close Brothers Limited should:
-remove all traces of this finance agreement from Mrs Ds credit  file;
-pay Mrs D £25 as reimbursement for the protective  CIFAS  marker
-pay compensation of £350 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202800