K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc replaced her debit card after she told it to delay 
doing so as she was abroad receiving medical  treatment.  
background
Miss M says she told HSBC not to replace her debit card until after she had returned from a 
trip abroad  when she would be using it. But she says it did so, her existing card expired and 
was swallowed by a cash machine abroad.  This left her without money to pay for medical  
treatments. She says HSBC promised  her £1,000 compensation but has only paid £50. 
HSBC says Miss M was offered £50 compensation after her request for £1,000  was 
declined. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Shed  listened  to the call recordings. Miss M was expecting to receive  a card at her 
home address  and as it didnt arrive as expected she reported it missing. There  was 
no mention of her intention to travel or of keeping  her existing card activated. 
The existing cards  expiry date was May 2019 and Miss Ms travel  dates were 16 to 
29 April 2019. So it isnt clear  why she would ask HSBC  to keep the card active  
during her holiday. We cant  say why the debit card was swallowed by the ATM and 
the letter from the foreign bank says it was at HSBCs request. It doesnt  say it was 
because it had expired.
When Miss M spoke to HSBC to question why the card was taken by the ATM, she 
suggested she should get between  £1,000  and £2,000 compensation. The call 
handler made it clear  HSBC wouldnt be offering  that level of compensation. And 
Miss M agreed  with the £50 offer made instead  and discussed  arrangements to credit  
this amount to her account. Theres no evidence a higher offer was made or 
warranted. 
It may be that HSBC  reported the wrong  card as lost. But Miss M didnt suffer  any 
financial loss and the £50 compensation is sufficient for the inconvenience and stress 
she was caused.
Miss M remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Miss M had a debit  card which shouldve been  valid throughout her trip abroad.  But it was 
swallowed up by an ATM machine. Theres nothing to suggest this was because it had 
expired. And the foreign bank says it was retained  at HSBCs request.
Ref: DRN28860092I think its most likely  that HSBC mayve cancelled  Miss Ms current  debit card rather  than 
her replacement one which  had not been delivered  to her as expected. And this probably 
resulted in the ATM abroad swallowing  Miss Ms existing rather than the lost replacement  
debit card. 
I realise this wouldve caused Miss M some distress  and inconvenience for a short time until 
she could make alternative arrangements to get money. But she did have an obligation to 
mitigate any loss and I think that would reasonably include carrying  other  cards  or means of 
payment she could readily use in the country  involved. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make and the fact that she 
didnt suffer any financial loss, I think HSBCs payment of £50 compensation to Miss M is fair 
and reasonable.  And theres  nothing  to suggest  it ever offered her a larger amount such  as 
the £1,000 she suggests. 
I recognise Miss Ms frustration. Even  so I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably require HSBC 
to pay her any more compensation as shed like. And I dont see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2886009