K821x#15Complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)  
dealt with him following a claim made against his motor  insurance policy. 
Background
Mr Ps complaint concerns a potential claim  under  his insurance policy. This was dealt with 
by another business on Advantages behalf. As such, when I refer to Advantage or the 
business, it includes the actions of Advantage and those acting on its behalf  in this case.  
In 2015 another driver claimed Mr P had been involved in a collision, which  he disputed.  Mr 
P was told his premiums  would increase  while the claim was on-going. After some  time, Mr 
P contacted the business to find out what was happening, and ultimately made a complaint.  
Mr P was told that his claim had been settled without any payment from his insurers. The 
business agreed that the claim had not been handled well and he hadnt been  kept updated. 
It confirmed that it would return the extra  premiums  paid and pay Mr P £200 for the trouble 
caused by the poor handling.   
Mr P came to this service  because he said he didnt receive the redress promised in the final 
response. The business confirmed it had sent a cheque  to Mr P in February 2017, but that it 
had not been cashed. An investigator looked into his case and recommended that Mr P 
should be paid what was offered in the final response, plus 8% interest  on the extra  premium 
paid from the date of payment until the date of repayment. She also recommended a further 
£50 be added to the £200 to reflect the additional  inconvenience the whole matter had 
caused Mr P. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with this, as he felt the additional £50 was not a punishment or deterrent  
to the business.  He asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. The business responded that as 
the refund  of premium was what had been  offered in the final response,  it didnt think  the 
additional £50 was fair. It later agreed to the 8% interest the investigator recommended.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once Mr P complained  to the business,  there was no dispute that he should have the extra 
premiums he paid refunded, and that this should  have happened  earlier. And Mr P himself 
was happy with the original offer of a refund and £200 for the way the case had been 
handled. He only brought a complaint to this service,  because he said he did not receive 
this.   
The business confirmed  that a cheque  was issued in February 2017, but not cashed.  After 
our investigation, it agreed  to re-issue the cheque and add 8% interest as the investigator 
recommended. I understand that it feels the increase in the trouble and upset is 
unwarranted, as the refund of the extra premiums was not in dispute,  but I agree  with the 
investigator that the failure to communicate clearly to Mr P what  the situation was with the 
promised redress, has caused him further trouble and upset.   
Ref: DRN28089462I appreciate that Mr P doesnt  feel the award  in this case is sufficient  to act as a deterrent to 
the business, but as the investigator has explained,  the role of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service is not to punish  or regulate  businesses  but to look at individual  complaints. And 
where something has gone  wrong,  try to put it right. I understand this situation has caused 
Mr P additional trouble,  but I consider the original amount of £200, plus the recommended 
additional amount of £50 is fair and in line with the awards our service  makes for similar 
complaints.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.  
I require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to refund the extra premium paid Mr P paid, 
plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date the premium was paid until the 
repayment1. 
I also require Advantage to pay Mr P a further £50.00 to compensate for the trouble and 
upset this has caused him, and the original  £200 if it has not already done  so.  
Advantage should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ps accepted my final decision. If it 
pays after this, it should add interest  to the compensation  at a rate of 8% simple  per year 
from the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman
1 If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2808946