K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the amount of compensation The Co-operative  Bank Plc (The Co-op) 
has offered to settle her complaint about  a mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy taken out with a credit  card.
background
In May 2005  Ms M took out a credit  card with The Co-op and alongside this bought  a PPI 
policy. The credit card was suspended  in 2006 when Ms M stopped making the repayments.
Ms M complained to The Co-op, through a third party, that the PPI had been  mis-sold. In 
February 2019 The Co-op agreed  to uphold  the complaint and offered to pay £448.96 in 
compensation. Ms M wasnt happy  that the amount included everything  she had paid for the 
PPI and brought her complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said what The Co-op had offered in compensation  fair. Ms M still wasnt 
happy the amount was correct and asked for an ombudsman to look into her complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms M complained the PPI was mis-sold  The Co-op agreed to uphold  the complaint 
and pay her compensation.  So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be 
mis-sold. Im only looking at whether The Co-op has offered fair compensation to settle the 
complaint.
Ms M took out the PPI at the same  time she applied  for the credit card in May 2005. In 
May 2006 she stopped making  any repayments to the credit  card balance. The PPI was 
cancelled and in November 2006 interest  being charged on the account  was suspended. 
The balance outstanding  on the credit  card at this time was £1,651.00.
Nothing more  was paid by Ms M to The Co-op  towards the balance and in November 2008 
the debt was sold to a third party. 
The Co-op has provided its calculations to show the total added to the credit  card account 
for the costs of the PPI. This is £448.96  and it is the amount  it has offered to pay back to 
Ms M. It includes  all the premiums added to the account between May 2005 and May 2006 
and all the interest caused  by those premiums. The interest has been calculated  to 
November 2006  as this was when  interest stopped being charged on the balance.  And the 
balance still included all the PPI costs.
I can see from the calculations provided  that Ms M only ever paid £480  in repayments to her 
credit card and her spend  on the account,  without any PPI costs  being included, would have 
been around £1,200.00.  So she still owed The Co-op around £700 for her own spending on 
the card.
Although Ms M says she thinks she was charged  more for the PPI costs  than The Co-op has 
offered to repay,  she has said she has no evidence to support this contention. So I have 
seen nothing to show Ms M ever paid more than the amounts worked out by The Co-op.
Ref: DRN22949952As Ms M never repaid the balance  owed on the credit card she was never out of pocket for 
the PPI so no compensatory interest if due. It is unknown if Ms M ever fully repaid her credit 
card debt as it was sold to a third party in 2008.  Even if she didnt repay it in full, including 
the costs of the PPI, she is still getting  back from The Co-op what was charged to the credit  
card for all the PPI costs that would  ever have been in the balance.
Therefore I think the offer of £448.96 in compensation  to Ms M is fair and The Co-op does 
not need to offer anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think what The Co-operative Bank Plc has offered in 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI with Ms Ms credit card is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2294995