K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with PPI in 1997. The policy protected their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event that they couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with this view. They  
mainly say that as they both had very good jobs with full sickness  benefits they didn't need 
additional insurance. Mr and Mrs B also told us that if the policy terms had been properly 
explained, and theyd been made aware  that it was optional, they wouldve  declined the 
policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B took out the mortgage in joint names  and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
both their circumstances  when the policy  was taken out.  
NatWest hasnt been able to provide anything signed by Mr and Mrs B to show  how they 
agreed to take out PPI. But I dont think thats surprising. I wouldnt expect NatWest or 
Mr and Mrs B to have kept all the paperwork from the sale for so long. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs B might  be able to remember  
about the sale after such a long time. So I dont know exactly  what was discussed  when they 
took out the PPI. 
But Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  application where theyve indicated that 
PPI wasnt something they wanted. So I think Mr and Mrs B understood at the time that it 
was up to them to choose if they wanted  to take out this insurance.  
And it looks like they changed their minds about having PPI. I say this because  their 
mortgage offer says:  You have selected a monthly benefit of £600 under Mortgage 
Repayment Protector Insurance  (this is what NatWest called its PPI). 
They also completed  payment instructions to their bank specifically to pay for the policy.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage  payments werent  kept 
up to date. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs B mightve  felt PPI was useful to have.  
Ref: DRN21486132I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs B have forgotten these details as this happened 
such a long time ago. But, based  on the information Ive seen,  I think  its likely that 
Mr and Mrs B decided  after all they did want the benefits that PPI offered. And, on balance, 
I find that they chose  to buy the policy, knowing it was up to them to say if they wanted  it.
NatWest didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs B. But it still shouldve provided 
Mr and Mrs B with enough information so they could decide if the policy  was right for them. 
Mr and Mrs B were  both eligible for the policy. 
The policy wouldve paid out the monthly benefit  amount they chose for up to 12 months  per 
claim. It protected Mr and Mrs B in the event of accident, sickness  and unemployment. This 
couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely  to have been a difficult  time if Mr B and/or 
Mrs B had been off work sick  especially if they faced  extra  costs as a result  of being unwell 
or disabled  and bearing in mind what theyve said about relying  on statutory sick pay. 
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely  the policy offered protection against  
unexpected unemployment. Mr and Mrs B told us they didnt have any significant other 
means they couldve relied on to cover their mortgage monthly repayments if they werent  
working. Under the policy repeat claims  were possible so it provided  long term cover while  
Mr and Mrs B were  paying for their home. Looking at their circumstances at the time,  I can 
see why they mightve felt they could benefit  from having PPI. 
Mr and Mrs B were nt affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  So, I dont 
think it likely  that having better information  about the policys exclusions and limitations 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy,  even if theyd been better 
informed, as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. I dont think  better 
information wouldve  put them off buying PPI as it provided them with worthwhile benefits. 
Taking all this information into account,  I dont find that Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a 
result of anything that NatWest mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to 
put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2148613