K822xcomplaint
Mr Ms complaint, made on behalf of his business Sonic Sphere Productions, is two fold. He 
says HSBC UK Bank Plc isnt processing  his international payments in line with the relevant 
regulations. And since it upgraded its online banking  platform he has had problems using  it.
background 
Mr M says the time it takes HSBC to process international payments breaches the European 
Payment Councils rules.  He refers  to a payment made on 14 March  2019 that wasnt 
received until 18 March 2019. And after HSBCs made changes to his online banking 
platform certain pages wouldnt load, and some  services werent available. He says the £50 
compensation HSBC  paid for this isnt enough and asks for £150.  
Our investigator said the international  payment made on 14 March  2019 was processed  by 
HSBC within  the same morning it was requested  so in that instance  she could find no bank 
error. She said once  HSBC has sent the money  to the recipient  bank  it has no control over 
when it is credited to the nominated account. With regards the problems  Mr M was 
experiencing with online  baking,  whilst  accepting  it must have been  frustrating,  she said 
HSBC had now agreed to pay £100 compensation in total and she felt this was fair having 
considered the level of inconvenience involved.
Mr M disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having down so I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
international payments
I can find no evidence that HSBC has not processed  Mr Ms transaction  in line with all 
relevant regulations. The bank released  the money at 10.10am  the same  morning that Mr M 
requested the payment. As the investigator  explained, HSBC  cannot be held liable for the 
allocation of funds  by the recipient bank.  I note Mr M has referenced other more recent 
delayed payments and as our investigator  advised,  once HSBC  has looked  into these and 
issued its final response letter  he can of course  complain to us if he remains unhappy. 
online banking
As HSBC has acknowledged  there were issues for Mr M after it upgraded its platform. To 
recognise the inconvenience  this caused his business it paid £50 compensation. After  we 
became involved  it offered to increase this to £100.  I think  this is fair and reasonable, and to 
reach my decision Ive considered how the system instability impacted Mr Ms business.  I 
understand the problem that was causing the issues is now resolved. Equally, I also note 
that more recently  Mr M has had other  online banking problems but again  as our investigator  
explained he would first need  to contact HSBC to allow it to look into these.  
So overall, Im satisfied the bank need do no more than it has already offered. It should now 
pay the additional £50 compensation. 
Ref: DRN20686292my final decision
My decision  is HSBC  UK Plc should pay £50 to Mr M t/a Sonic Sphere Productions  in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2068629