K821x#15complaint
Mr G says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent to him irresponsibly. He also says it didnt treat 
him fairly in the manner in which it asked  him to pay an outstanding balance.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on 16 May 2019. A copy of it is attached and it 
forms part of this final decision. I explained why I was planning  to uphold Mr Gs complaint 
and what I thought MYJAR should  do to put things right. I asked Mr G and MYJAR to let me 
know if they had anything to add.
Neither Mr G nor MYJAR  sent me anything  else to consider in relation to this complaint. 
Mr G did ask for clarification on one point, which was provided.
 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr G nor MYJAR sent me anything  new to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  So my final decision is the same as my provisional  decision, for 
the same  reasons.
putting things right
MYJAR should write off the balance of loan 7. It should update Mr Gs credit  file to show that 
the debt for loan 7 has been written  off. MYJAR  does  not have to remove  any adverse 
information from Mr Gs credit  history.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  MYJAR Limited must  put things  right by taking the steps set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25936752COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent to him irresponsibly. He also says it didnt treat him fairly in 
the manner in which it asked  him to pay an outstanding balance.
background
MYJAR provided Mr G with seven loans between December 2017 and February 2018. Ive set out 
some of the information MYJAR provided  about the loans in the table below.
Loan no. Amount (£) Start date Original term (days) Actual end date
1 375 20/12/2017 92 28/12/2017
2 500 18/01/2018 92 22/01/2018
3 125 25/01/2018 88 26/01/2018
4 125 28/01/2018 85 29/01/2018
5 125 31/01/2018 82 31/01/2018
6 850 31/01/2018 173 03/02/2018
7 1,475 12/02/2018 375 outstanding
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
did MYJAR lend responsibly?
I dont intend to go into a great  deal of detail about the affordability of all of Mr Gs loan, or the 
proportional nature of the checks MYJAR carried  out  for reasons which will become clear.
By the time Mr G asked for loan 7  if not before  I think MYJAR ought fairly  and reasonably to have 
realised Mr G likely had wider financial problems. And it ought to have carried out proportionate 
checks to decide whether it was appropriate to continue lending to him.
By loan 7, the unusual pattern of Mr Gs borrowing was well established.  His first five loans had terms 
of about three  months and the sixth loan a term of six months. Despite this, Mr G repaid all of the 
loans between one and eight days  and on one occasion the loan was repaid on the same day it was 
approved. This pattern  strongly  suggested  Mr G wasnt in need of short-term finance to meet  an 
unexpected cash flow problem  and that it was likely Mr G was facing wider difficulties.
Five of Mr Gs loans  were  provided in January  2018  in this month MYJAR advanced around £1,700 
 which was more than Mr Gs declared  monthly income. Given  that Mr G was repaying his loans 
within days, I think  MYJAR ought to have realised  lending this much was unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable to Mr G.
Ive noted (from MYJARs credit report) that in the month between loan 1 and loan 3, the number of 
new accounts  Mr G had opened elsewhere  increased  from 17 to 37. Whilst  I cant be sure of what 
these accounts were, it seems likely   given  the timescales  that these  were also payday (or similar)  
loans. Ive looked at Mr Gs bank  statements  and can see he obtained  many other short-term loans 
during this time. So while I understand MYJAR takes the early  repayment of the loans  as a positive, in 
Mr Gs case  I dont think its reasonable to take a positive view of the pattern of lending.
I think  its arguable  that the pattern of lending alone, by the time Mr G asked for his seventh loan, 
ought to have  alerted MYJAR to a problem. That Mr G took out so many loans  in such a short space 
of time,  reborrowing again  as soon as he repaid a loan, is arguably  enough to put a responsible 
Ref: DRN25936753lender on notice that Mr G wasnt repaying his loans sustainably.  Despite this, Ive given MYJAR the 
benefit of the doubt and have gone on to look at what proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bearing in mind  the problems indicated by the pattern of lending, I think  MYJAR ought to have  taken 
further steps to verify Mr Gs income  and expenditure. Its not particularly important that I identify 
exactly at which point MYJAR  ought to have done that in Mr Gs case  as whatever  the point the 
result would be very much  the same.
To take one example, Mr Gs bank statement for February 2018 contains over 100 gambling 
transactions, totalling more  than £5,000. Statements  before and after this date are all quite similar. 
Given all the other factors in Mr Gs case, this isnt a particularly surprising finding. It also appears that 
Mr G had no income from employment at this time.
So had MYJAR carried out proportionate  checks and asked Mr G for evidence of his income and 
expenditure, it likely wouldve established that Mr G didnt have any income  from employment and 
that his expenditure far outstripped his income.
This means  I currently dont  think MYJAR acted  responsibly  when it lent to Mr G.
was MYJARs correspondence about the outstanding balance on loan 7 unreasonable?
I understand that this was a difficult  time for Mr G. But I dont think  MYJAR acted  unreasonably by 
asking for a repayment plan. It wasnt obliged to write off Mr Gs debt simply because he made  a 
complaint. And I havent  seen that it asked  Mr G to repay the whole debt in one go, once it was aware 
of his health  problems.  Even if some of MYJARs communications shouldve been better,  its unlikely 
Id award further redress in addition to what Im currently planning.
what should MYJAR do to put things right?
My starting point is that Mr G has had the benefit of the money  he borrowed,  so its usually  fair that he 
should pay it back. But there will be some  circumstances  where I could conclude that isnt a fair 
approach. 
This can include  where the lending was so irresponsible its reasonable to tell a lender to write off any 
outstanding balance  as it ought reasonably to have realised the borrower was unlikely to be able to 
repay the debt. It can also include where  it appears unlikely that there could be any credible 
repayment plan.
I think  both these apply in Mr Gs case. Had MYJAR carried out proportionate checks, it likely 
wouldve seen that he had no earned income  and that he was borrowing to maintain an unsustainable  
level of expenditure   principally on gambling.  So MYJAR wouldve  realised, from proportionate 
checks, it was unlikely Mr G would be able to repay  his loans sustainably.  There  were  also strong 
indications from the pattern of lending  that it was unlikely  Mr G was repaying the loans sustainably.
Ive also taken  into account what Mr G has said about his current  health and financial problems. Ive 
noted that the income and expenditure form Mr G provided to MYJAR suggests he has no disposable  
income and a significant amount of debt. With that in mind, I dont  think  theres  any real prospect of 
Mr G repaying the outstanding balance  of loan 7 in a reasonable amount  of time.  Mr G wouldnt be in 
that position if MYJAR had not lent irresponsibly.
So for these reasons, I plan to say MYJAR should write off the balance of loan 7. It should  update Mr 
Gs credit file to show  that the debt for loan 7 has been written off. Ive thought about  whether  it 
should also remove  all adverse information. But I dont  think that would be in Mr Gs best interests, 
bearing in mind his circumstances and current financial  difficulty  and its not unreasonable that Mr 
Gs credit history appears to be as accurate as possible.
Ref: DRN25936754I think  that represents  fair redress  overall for Mr Gs complaint  including any other loans which may 
have been irresponsibly  lent.
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold Mr Gs complaint and to tell MYJAR Limited to put things  right by taking the steps set 
out above.
Ref: DRN2593675