K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the way in which National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
(NatWest) administers overpayments on its mortgage accounts.
background
In 2017, on the advice  of a mortgage broker, Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage  with 
NatWest. They borrowed £176,995 over a term of 18 years,  with the first five years  on a 
fixed rate of 1.79%. The mortgage  is on a capital and interest repayment basis.
The mortgage provides that overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance  can be 
made each  year without  incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). The mortgage  offer 
says, in relation  to overpayments; You benefit  immediately  from overpaying directly to your 
mortgage. If you make an overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe,  and 
the amount of interest  you pay, is reduced  immediately.. 
The mortgage terms also provide that a regular overpayment can be set up. These will be 
collected with the monthly  repayment  and will not be varied automatically in the event of any 
change to the interest rate. 
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained to NatWest. Theyd used the overpayment calculator 
on NatWests website  which they said gave them the option on making  overpayments  either  
to reduce the term of their mortgage or to reduce  their repayments. But NatWest said that if 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to reduce their mortgage  term theyd need  to make an application. Mr 
and Mrs S didnt think this was fair. They thought NatWest  should allow  them to reduce their 
mortgage term automatically if they made  overpayments.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. An investigator  looked at the complaint and, after looking at 
everything that had happened,  he didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong and that it 
was under no obligation to reduce the mortgage term upon an overpayment to the mortgage  
account.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigator. They said that they believe theyve been 
stripped of their consumer  rights. They  also said that other  lenders will reduce the term on 
receipt of overpayments.
As the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to issue  a final decision on the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive looked at the loan terms and 
conditions and the mortgage  offer. 
The complaint is about a fairly simple issue. Mr and Mrs S contracted  with NatWest  to repay 
the mortgage over the contractual term.  They can pay more than the contractual  amount if 
they wish, and there are two ways to do that; individual lump sums, and paying more  than 
the contractual payment  each month. But if the extra amount paid in any given  year reduces 
the balance by more than 10% above and beyond the contractual  amount, then an ERC will 
be applied  on amounts that exceed  the 10% allowance.
Ref: DRN21366992It's important  to look at what the mortgage contract,  the account  terms and conditions and 
NatWests website say.
The mortgage offer says:
If you make  an overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe, and 
the amount of interest  you pay, is reduced  immediately.
I note that the mortgage terms and conditions say:
Monthly payments will be..the  amount necessary  to repay the loan with interest 
and charges by the end of the term of the mortgage (7.1)
and
We can also change  the monthly  payments  when  you repay part of the loan  (7.5)
and
When the monthly  payment for a particular month is greater than or less than the 
amount of interest  due in that particular month,  the balance of the loan will be 
reduced or increased,  as the case  may be, to account for the difference  between  the 
monthly payment  and the amount of interest  due in that particular  month. The 
amount of interest  calculated thereafter will reflect the adjusted balance  of the loan. 
(7.8)
On its website, NatWest says, in relation to overpayments:
Overpayments help to reduce the balance of your mortgage  and you will therefore 
pay less interest. Please  note that overpayments  do not directly reduce the term of 
your mortgage. This can only be done  if you contact us to make an application.
So Im satisfied NatWest provided Mr and Mrs S (and their mortgage adviser) with 
information about how overpayments would affect the mortgage before they entered  into the 
contract. It was Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage advisers  role to explain the terms and conditions 
and to answer their questions about how the mortgage operated  including the way 
NatWest would deal with overpayments.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs S asked the adviser about overpayments  at the point of sale.  But 
if they did, and if Mr and Mrs S consider that they werent told how NatWest would apply 
overpayments, thats something Mr and Mrs S will need to take up with the adviser.
The fact remains that Mr and Mrs S entered into a contract  to repay the mortgage  over the 
18-year term and in line with NatWests terms and conditions. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs S 
think its unfair that NatWests default  position is that overpayments reduce the mortgage 
repayment rather than the mortgage  term. But this is a commercial decision NatWests  
taken. 
I dont have any power to tell NatWest how to run its business,  including the way in which it 
applies overpayments to its mortgage accounts.  I appreciate other lenders automatically give 
customers the option to reduce the mortgage term when making overpayments.  But that 
doesnt mean NatWest  has to offer this concession simply because  other lenders do.
NatWests position  is that a term reduction is a material change to the mortgage  contract, 
justifying an assessment of affordability. I dont  think this is unreasonable because if the term 
Ref: DRN21366993is shorter, the repayments will need to be adjusted to pay off the capital and interest before 
the end date, even if there  has been a reduction  in the capital  by way of overpayment.  In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that NatWest  is allowed to assess  whether or not this will be 
affordable for borrowers. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2136699