K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr S and Ms G say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), then trading  as Barnsley 
Building Society, mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr S and Ms G took out a mortgage  with YBS in 2000. At the same time they were  sold a 
PPI policy  which wouldve covered their mortgage repayments for up to a year at a time if 
they couldnt work. Mr S and Ms G say they were  pressured in to taking the PPI and that 
they didnt need it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr S and Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr S and Ms G 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
There is little information from the time of sale which isnt surprising considering  how long 
ago the sale took place.  YBS has provided a copy of Mr S and Ms Gs mortgage application 
form which states the following for what needed  to be done  to take PPI  Please see the 
separate form regarding  this important insurance  cover. This form must be completed, 
signed and submitted with the mortgage  application. 
YBS say that Mr S and Ms G wouldve then filled out a separate PPI application which 
wouldve been sent to the insurer.  There is no copy of this available, which is 
understandable given  the time which has passed. But I dont  think the policy  couldve been 
set up or the premiums  taken from Mr S and Ms Gs account, without an application being 
completed. 
YBS has provided a copy of a letter dated  10 January 2001  which  confirms Mr S and Ms G 
applied for PPI. The letter says - Thank you for your application to join the Loancare 
insurance scheme. The letter also confirms a separate PPI application was completed by 
them. 
YBS has told us Mr S would have received 40% of the benefit  and Ms G would have 
received 60% of the benefit. This would  appear  to suggest that there  was a conversation 
about the cover and, following that discussion,  a choice  was made to split the benefit in this 
way. 
So on balance, on the limited information  I have,  I think  its more likely Mr S and Ms G 
bought the PPI knowing they had a choice  about it.
Ref: DRN21061802Ive thought about what Mr S and Ms G have said about feeling pressured to take out the 
PPI. But pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think  is pressure another  
may not. So without  stronger evidence of this I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this basis. 
YBS didnt give Mr S and Ms G a recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt have to take 
steps to make sure it was suitable  for them. But it did need to make sure Mr S and Ms G had 
all the information  he needed to make  their own decision.
Mr S and Ms G chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
The PPI policy could  have  covered  Mr S and Ms Gs repayments for up to 12 months  per 
claim if they became  too ill to work, or if they became unemployed. It would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay they had and it would  have paid out on top of any redundancy 
payment they may have got if they lost their job. And as there  could have been serious 
consequences of not keeping up repayments  on a debt secured against  their home, if Mr S 
and Ms G couldnt work or lost their job then the PPI meant  their monthly  mortgage  
payments wouldve been met. 
Mr S and Ms G have said their friends and family could have helped them if they needed it. 
Whilst I appreciate their friends  and family would have wanted  to help, their support cant be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial assistance. So taking everything  in to consideration, I think the PPI policy  
couldve been helpful to them.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr S and Ms G paid on their PPI  and whether YBS 
treated them  unfairly. 
YBS has told us that the commission for Mr S and Ms Gs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how YBS has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr S and Ms Gs commission  was less than half 
the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  about  the 
commission  so I dont  think  YBS treated  them unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay 
Mr S and Ms G back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN21061803my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2106180