K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
June 1999. Mrs C says Leeds Building  Society  (LBS)  mis-sold  her the PPI. I note that Mr C 
was sold a PPI policy  at the same time,  but I understand  this has been  dealt  with separately.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Due to the length  of time thats passed  LBS hasnt been able to provide any paperwork 
from the sale. This isnt surprising  considering  the length of time thats passed. LBS has 
however provided  us with a sample mortgage  application form and PPI application form 
it says wouldve been used at the time Mrs Cs policy was sold. Ive looked  closely  at this 
and can see that there  is a section related to PPI where the customer could opt for the 
policy. It also required the customer to sign to say they wanted the policy.  I note there 
was also a section  where the customer could sign if they didnt want  the policy.   Without 
further persuasive evidence to support  what Mrs C has told us, I think its more likely 
than not that Mrs C chose to take the PPI knowing she had a choice. Although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this.  
LBS recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mrs C says she had considerable sick pay 
entitlements at the time the policy was sold. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
any employee benefits Mrs C would received  and it wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Mrs C was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. So 
I think she wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information LBS gave  Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs C paid on her PPI  and whether LBS treated 
her unfairly. 
LBS has told us that the commission for Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what  she paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how LBS has been  working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Cs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont think  
LBS treated  her unfairly.  This means  it doesnt need to pay Mrs C back any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN29247822my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2924782