K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss M bought the policy in 2003, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
While I know this will disappoint Miss M, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
From what  Ive seen of the online application  at the time of Miss Ms sale,  there wouldve 
been a section for PPI. It gave some  brief details about what  the policy  was for and what it 
cost, and then had two options  to choose  from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. Both 
options appear to have  been equally prominent.  According to the electric record  of Miss Ms 
application, she chose  the option to take PPI. So I think  that Canada  Square made Miss M 
aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Miss M enough  information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Miss M about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Miss M chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While Miss M said 
she had some good sick pay, the PPI covered her for longer and paid out on top. And she 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case she lost her job. So I think  the policy  could 
have been useful for Miss M in case something went wrong. And so I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN24668952my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2466895