K822xcomplaint
Mrs P is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  put a deceased  marker 
on her accounts. Shes also unhappy with how it dealt with this error.
background 
In April 2019, Mrs Ps debit card was swallowed by a cash  machine  and two accounts 
disappeared from her online banking. When she called NatWest, she found out that a 
deceased marker had been added  to the accounts.  As a result, NatWest had cancelled her 
direct debits and standing orders; frozen her accounts; and passed them on to debt 
collection agencies. Mrs P says the call was very distressing and took a long time. 
Mrs P raised a complaint during the call and NatWest sent its final response  the following 
day. NatWest said a date of deceased of 1 August 2008 had been added to the accounts,  
triggering its response. But the date of deceased actually related to Mrs Ps late husband. 
Hed originally been a joint account holder, and NatWest had been informed of his passing at 
the time.  Mrs P has been the sole account holder ever since. 
To put things right NatWest said it would pay Mrs P £250 compensation; remove  any 
adverse information  from her credit file; and recall  and reinstate  the accounts  on their former  
terms. It said this would include reinstating Mrs Ps direct debits  but she should contact the 
affected companies directly to ensure  the payments were reinstated  correctly on their end. 
Mrs P then referred the matter to our service. Our investigator felt NatWest  should pay 
additional compensation of £250.  He also told NatWest to send  Mrs P a letter  about the 
error, so she could forward this on to the direct debit  companies if needed. NatWest agreed,  
but Mrs P wasnt happy with this resolution.  She thinks NatWest  sent her accounts to the 
deceased department in August 2018, so shouldve  acted  sooner. She reiterated how 
distressing the situation had been. Mrs P also said shed been charged as a result  of what 
had happened  with her accounts.
Our investigator still felt the compensation hed recommended was fair. He asked NatWest 
about the charges Mrs P had mentioned  but it couldnt locate any. The investigator then 
asked Mrs P if she could provide details of any costs incurred. In response she said:
I have addressed  the issue with the bank regarding the late payment. However, I still 
want to pursue the case further as I am not satisfied with the outcome. Please pass 
this onto the Ombudsman.
As requested, this matter has now been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached   and for largely  the same  reasons.
To start, I do want to pass on my sympathies to Mrs P over whats happened. Its clear this 
incident has been very distressing for her. NatWest accepts that it made a mistake.  So what  
Ive considered is: has NatWest done enough to remedy any losses  financial or otherwise 
 Mrs P has suffered as a result of this error?
Ref: DRN20864482Mrs P says NatWest added the deceased  marker  in August 2018, so had the opportunity to 
correct this before her accounts were  affected. The information Ive seen doesnt make  it 
clear when NatWest added the marker. But Im satisfied I can reach  a fair decision without 
this information.  Ultimately, Im looking at the impact the error had on Mrs P. Regardless  of 
when the records  were changed,  Mrs P wasnt affected until April 2019.
According to NatWests records, its now reinstated Mrs Ps accounts  (including her direct 
debits and standing  orders) and removed any incorrect  information  reported to the credit 
reference agencies.  Im satisfied this largely  corrects the tangible losses. Although Mrs P is 
unhappy that NatWest told her to contact the direct debit companies about the reinstated  
payments, I consider  this reasonable advice, as it can be difficult  to deal with third parties for 
data-protection reasons.  It will cause Mrs P some inconvenience  which  Ill address below. 
But ultimately, it lessens  the risk of anything going  wrong with the reinstated  direct debits. 
And the letter our investigator has suggested should reduce the inconvenience of contacting  
these companies.
Mrs P says shes  incurred late payment fees as a result of this error. But NatWest  hasnt 
been able to locate any. And, despite our asking, Mrs P hasnt provided records of any 
charges from NatWest or other  companies.  So Im afraid she hasnt proven theres any loss 
with regard to this aspect of her complaint. The person making an allegation  does have to 
provide reasonable evidence to back it up. 
The final point for me to consider is how much  compensation Mrs P should  receive  to reflect  
her intangible  losses, i.e. the distress and inconvenience shes  suffered. I accept that the 
situation was very distressing for Mrs P, particularly as it involved reliving the details of her 
late husbands death so long ago. And the situation  has clearly caused  her inconvenience. 
Mrs P was left without access to her accounts and had to spend time resolving the situation. 
Shes also been asked to contact her direct debit  companies to check  on payments which  
should never have  been  stopped. That said, Im satisfied  that NatWest  acted  quickly  and put 
sensible measures in place once it became aware of the error. This limited  the impact  on 
Mrs P.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that NatWest should pay Mrs P a total of £500 
compensation (i.e. including  the £250  its already paid). Im satisfied this fairly  reflects the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs P has suffered because of NatWests error and is in line with 
awards weve previously made  in similar cases.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc 
should:
Reinstate Mrs Ps accounts,  including any overdrafts, cards, direct debits and 
standing orders;
Issue Mrs P a letter confirming that it cancelled her standing orders  and direct debits 
in error;
Remove any adverse  information on Mrs Ps credit file relating to this error;
Pay Mrs P a total of £500 compensation (less  any compensation its already paid). 
The sum owing should be paid within 28 days of NatWest  being notified by us of 
Mrs Ps acceptance of my decision, failing which interest  will accrue at the simple 
Ref: DRN20864483rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less  any tax 
properly deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2086448