K820x#14complaint
Mr U has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him an Additions Plus 
packaged bank  account in 2006.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Us complaint and didnt think  that Barclays  had mis-sold the 
packaged account. Mr U disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Us complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. But having done so, 
I dont think Mr Us complaint should  be upheld. Id like to explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr U was given a clear  choice in taking the Additions 
Plus account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have  to make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened, I have to think about everything Ive been told together  with 
everything else Ive been  provided  with and see how this fits with what  I do know. In other  
words, what l have  to do, in this case,  is decide  what I think  is most likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what Mr U and Barclays  have  been able to provide me with.  
The information Ive seen suggests  Mr U upgraded to the Additions Plus account from a free 
one. So I think that Mr U wouldve known  Barclays  did free accounts and that he couldve 
had one of those, if thats what  he really  wanted.  Mr U says he was pushed  into taking the 
Additions Plus account. But Im afraid  the strength of what hes said isnt strong enough  for 
me to say that he was left in a position where  he had no choice  other than to agree to the 
account. 
Having thought about everything Ive seen, I think  its likely that Mr U was given a clear 
choice on upgrading. And I think its most  likely that he chose to upgrade to packaged 
accounts as he, at the time, thought  the benefits  it included  might prove useful to him.  
I dont think that Barclays  recommended the Additions Plus account to Mr U. And this means 
that it was up to Mr U to decide whether  the account  was right for him, bearing  in mind his 
circumstances at the time of the sale and taking into account what the package included. But 
Barclays did have to provide Mr U with clear  enough  information  to do this. 
I do think its likely Mr U was told about most, if not all, of the benefits  on the account in order 
to make it appear as attractive as possible.  After all it was trying  to persuade Mr U to take 
the account when he knew he didnt have  to upgrade. So the most  likely way to have  done  
this wouldve  been by telling him about  what hed get for the monthly fee.
From what  Ive seen, Mr U was eligible for and couldve  used the main  benefits. And it was 
up to him to do so. It appears as though Mr U did use the breakdown cover  too. I appreciate  
Mr U might not have used gadget cover, mobile  phone insurance or extended warranty 
Ref: DRN22434442cover. But the benefits on packaged  accounts  come as overall packages. Its not possible to 
have some benefits without also having the others.  And its rare for a consumer to want and 
need all of the benefits on a given package. 
Im open  to the possibility Mr U may not have been told absolutely  everything he needed to 
know. But I havent seen  anything in Mr Us circumstances  to suggest he wouldve been 
affected by the main  limitations and exclusions on the benefits. For example while  he may 
not have been told about the need  to register any pre-existing medical conditions, Mr U 
doesnt appear to have  had any. So I dont think clearer information wouldve stopped him 
from taking the account.
Mr U may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that he hasnt benefitted  from the 
account as much hed hoped  and expected  to when he initially upgraded. And given what  he 
mightve read and heard  about  packaged  accounts  in general, I can to some extent 
understand why this might lead Mr U to believe his account was mis-sold. 
But I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of 
the sale and I cant use hindsight when reaching  my conclusion. I think  that Mr U chose to 
upgrade after having been  told what the account  came with. So although Mr U may now 
think that the account hasnt proved to be value for money, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Barclays did anything significantly wrong at the time of sale. 
I want to reassure Mr U that Ive looked at all the information provided  about  his complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything hes said. Having done so, and while  I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for him, I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the packaged  account  
to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243444