K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint is brought  to this service  on Mr Bs behalf by a claims management company. 
But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr B.
background
This complaint is about 13 short term loans Sunny provided to Mr B between 
July 2015 and January 2017. The loans were  repayable by six monthly  instalments. All the 
loans have been repaid.  Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 13/7/15 7/8/15 £100
2. 11/8/15 23/10/15 £400
3. 2/11/15 14/1/16 £200
4. 13/11/15 14/1/16 £300
5. 12/12/15 14/1/16 £200
6. 22/2/16 24/2/16 £300
7. 13/4/16 6/5/16 £400
8. 11/5/16 3/6/16 £250
9. 12/6/16 16/6/16 £450
10. 14/6/16 17/6/16 £100
11. 11/1/17 25/2/17 £600
12. 15/1/17 21/1/17 £300
13. 23/1/17 4/2/17 £150
our adjudicators findings
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
Loans 4 to 10 shouldnt have been given to Mr B. By Loan  4 Mr B showed signs  that he was 
struggling to repay some  of his previous loans. He had returned very quickly to borrow  more  
money after repaying his previous loans. The adjudicator said that there was a significant 
risk that Mr B wouldnt  have been  able to sustainably repay Loan 4 and subsequent  loans.  
And by Loan 6 the overall pattern  of borrowing suggested that Mr B was persistently reliant 
on short  term loans. 
Sunny disagreed. The lender said that it had used Mr Bs income and expenditure and credit 
reference agency information to assess affordability. The repayments represented less than 
7.85% of Mr Bs monthly income.  And if Mr B had more than one loan, his repayments  with it 
and other  credit commitments declared  by Mr B or reported by the credit  reference agencies 
(whichever was the higher) were taken  into consideration in determining whether  the loans 
were affordable. Sunny also said that Mr Bs net disposable income of between  £641 and 
£1,054 was clearly  sufficient to meet the repayments. And Mr B had repaid his loans early. 
Sunny also said that it allowed consumers to take up to four loans with it at any one time 
subject to an affordability and creditworthiness assessment.  
Sunny then contacted us to say that it had reviewed  the complaint again. It said that when 
reviewing Mr Bs pattern  of borrowing, it would have been prudent  for it to have asked further 
questions about  Mr Bs financial circumstances by the time of Loan 8. Mr Bs other credit  
expenditure had increased and stayed at a similar level but his total monthly  expenditure had 
only increased marginally.  So it agreed  to uphold  Mr Bs complaint about Loans  8 to 10. It 
Ref: DRN28932932offered to refund the interest on these loans  and pay 8% interest on the refunds and remove  
information about these loans from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B didnt accept Sunnys offer.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Sunny on 18 February 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
I said that as Sunny  had offered to settle  Loans 8 to 10, I wouldnt be investigating these 
loans. But I would include  the redress for these  loans  in my proposed  award.
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Mr B the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance  for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr B could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
Ref: DRN28932933borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Bs complaint. 
Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It had asked him for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr Bs declared  income  for all the loans was £1,885.  Sunny had 
shown Mr Bs total expenditure in its Loan Datasheet as between £559  and £1,093  for 
Loans 1 to 13. 
Sunny had also said that it had checked Mr Bs credit file before agreeing to the loans. It 
hadnt provided us with the detailed results  of its credit checks. But it did note in its Loan  
Datasheet that Mr B wasnt  bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement  or in a debt 
management plan at the time hed taken  out the loans. It also showed that for Loans 3 to 6 
and 8 to 13 that Mr B had a defaulted  account in the previous four months.  But Id not seen 
any further details  about this. 
Wed received a credit  report  from Mr B. I couldnt  see there were any other  short term 
loans, any defaults  or any other adverse information  on the report  that I thought should  have 
caused additional concerns to Sunny.
Id noted that Mr B needed to make  monthly  equivalent loan repayments of around £32.45 to 
£135.98 to Sunny for Loans  1 to 4. Loan 3 was still outstanding when he took out Loan 4. 
But I thought the total monthly  repayment  amounts due for Loans 3 and 4 as well as the 
repayments for Loans 1 and 2 would  have appeared relatively modest compared to Mr Bs 
declared income. And although Mr B had up to two outstanding loans with Sunny, I didnt 
think the repayment amounts on Loans  1 to 4 were so large that it was obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr B financial difficulty.
So given Mr Bs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 1 
to 4 were unsustainable.  
And I didnt  think there was anything in the information Mr B had provided before Loans 1 to 
4 or the information Sunny shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think  Sunny was wrong to give 
Loans 1 to 4 to Mr B. 
But by the time Mr B applied for Loan  5, he had two other outstanding loans with Sunny and 
Loan 5 was his fifth loan in around five months.  I appreciated that Sunny had asked 
Mr B for his income and expenditure. And Id noted that Mr Bs credit commitments were  
shown as £213 and his disposable income  was £1,119. But I thought  the pattern and 
increasing amount  of his borrowing with repayments to be made  over six months  were  such  
that it wasnt reasonable for Sunny to rely on that information. So I thought this should have 
prompted Sunny to do some additional  checks such as asking Mr B for more information 
about his other short  term borrowing commitments.
Id looked at Mr Bs credit  report  and couldnt see that he had any other short  term loans at 
that time.  So I couldnt say that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks, it would have 
found that Mr B couldnt afford  to repay  Loan 5 sustainably. 
Ref: DRN28932934Loans 3 to 5 had been repaid when Mr B borrowed Loan 6. Id noted  that hed repaid all his 
other loans  before their due date. But I thought the early repayment of the loans should  have  
caused some concerns  to Sunny. I thought that might be the sort of behaviour  that would 
have indicated that someone  was facing problems managing their money. So Id taken that 
into account when  looking at whether Sunny should  have given Loan  6 to Mr B.
Loan 6 was for £300 which was higher than his previous loan although  it was his only loan 
with Sunny at that time. Loan 6 was also Mr Bs sixth loan in just over seven months. I 
thought Sunny might have been concerned  that Mr B was becoming reliant on its loans. So I 
thought all this should have prompted  Sunny to again have done some  additional checks  
such as asking Mr B for more information  about  his other short  term borrowing. 
Id again looked at Mr Bs credit report and couldnt see that he had any other short  term 
loans at that time. So I couldnt say that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks, it would 
have found that Mr B couldnt afford to repay Loan 6 sustainably.  
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr B to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 7. I said this because:
Loan 7 was Mr Bs seventh loan in nine months. Each of Mr Bs previous loans had 
been repayable over a period of six months.  But Mr B had always  paid those loans 
off far earlier than planned.  Loan 7 was for £400 which was £100 higher than his 
previous loan. By Loan 7 I thought his increasing borrowing and the pattern of 
frequent borrowing and repaying  early should have indicated  to Sunny that Mr B was 
most likely having  significant problems managing  his money.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts he owed Sunny. Loan 7 was for 
an amount higher  than his previous four loans. And Mr B had paid large  amounts  of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
Sunny  ought  to have realised that Mr B wasnt likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
I thought that Mr B had lost out because the number  of loans  was likely to have had negative  
implications on Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream  credit and so had kept him in the market 
for these  high-cost  loans. And the fact that all of the loans were repaid didnt mean that they 
were repaid  sustainably, or without causing Mr B undue difficulty. So I didnt think  that Sunny 
should have given Loan 7 to Mr B.
Mr B had taken out Loan 11 just less than seven months after repaying Loan 10. Given the 
length of time between  Mr Bs previous loan closing and his applying  for Loan 11, I thought  it 
was fair that Sunny again  treated  Mr B as a new customer.
Ref: DRN28932935Mr B had borrowed Loans 12 and 13 whilst Loan  11 was still outstanding. But Loan 12 had 
been repaid when he took out Loan  13. The total monthly equivalent repayments on 
Loans 11 to 13 had ranged between  around  £201  and £300. I thought  that the checks  Sunny 
had made  before agreeing these  loans were proportionate. The amounts that Mr B needed  
to repay  were relatively modest compared with the disposable income hed declared. And 
although Mr B had up to two outstanding  loans with Sunny, I didnt think the repayment  
amounts on Loans  11 to 13 were so large  that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr B 
financial difficulty.
So given Mr Bs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  
Loans 11 to 13 were unsustainable.  So I didnt  think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans  11 to 
13 to Mr B.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that Sunny should put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr B paid on Loans 7 to 10 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and
Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 10 from Mr Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr B hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision at length. It said,  in summary with regards  to 
Loan 7:
Repeat lending
Sunny said that whilst repeat lending was one factor  to consider which could indicate that 
someone might have been  experiencing difficulties and that further lending to them  might  be 
unsustainable, it wasnt automatically the case in the absence  of other factors. There  were 
no other factors in Mr Bs case to suggest the loans  he was granted  were unsustainable.  
Early repayment
Sunny said that whilst repeatedly repaying  early  might be indicative  that someone might  be 
facing problems managing their money,  without other evidence to support this, it wasnt  
automatically the case in every customers circumstances. 
Amount of Loan 7
Sunny said that whilst Loan  7 was for a higher amount than his previous  Sunny loan,  Loan  7 
was also for the same  amount  as Loan 2, which it calculated was affordable  and the monthly  
Ref: DRN28932936repayments of £135.68,  (constituting less than 8% of his monthly income) Mr B had  
committed to repay, were sustainable.  
Ongoing need  
Sunny said that by the time he applied for Loan 7, Mr B had been borrowing from it for just 
over nine months. It was unclear how I had established  that within this timeframe,  Mr B had 
an ongoing need for credit, particularly  as the FCAs definition  of high cost short term credit 
in CONC contemplates that short  term credit can include repayments to be made under an 
agreement up to a period  of 12 months.  
Effect on credit  rating
Sunny said that it was incorrect for this service to assume that the number of loans granted 
by it alone,  in the absence of any other factors or evidence,  necessarily impaired Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream  credit.  It also said that if a customer was declined for 
mainstream credit because of the Sunny loans he was granted, any unfair treatment  should 
arguably sit with other lenders, who were not taking into account  how the customer had 
managed their Sunny loan repayments.
Sunny also said that its offer to uphold the complaint in relation to Loans 8  10 remained 
open. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Repeat lending
Sunny said that whilst repeat lending was one factor  to consider when deciding  whether 
further lending  might have been  unsustainable, it wasnt automatically  the case  in the 
absence of other factors. It also said that there  were no other factors in Mr Bs case  to 
suggest the loans he was granted were unsustainable. But I hadnt  reached my decision on 
the basis of repeat lending alone.  By Loan 7 I thought Mr Bs increasing borrowing and the 
pattern of frequent  borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny that Mr B 
was most likely having significant  problems  managing his money. I also note what Sunny 
said about its regulatory responsibilities.  Ive set out in my provisional  decision what I think  
Sunny ought reasonably to have  taken into account when Mr B made  his loan applications  to 
Sunny.
Early repayment
I note that Sunny said that whilst repeatedly repaying early might  be indicative that someone 
was facing problems  managing their money, it wasnt automatically  the case. I think that a 
borrower repaying some loans early isnt necessarily a positive indication that his finances 
are healthy.  It may also be the sort of behaviour that would indicate  that someone  was facing 
problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on a regular  basis.  So I took 
this behaviour into account when looking at whether Sunny should have granted  its loans. 
Ref: DRN28932937Amount of Loan 7
I note that Sunny said that the monthly  repayments  of £135.68, (constituting  less than 8% of 
Mr Bs monthly income) which Mr B committed to repay, were sustainable. But as Id said 
above, Sunny was required to establish  whether Mr B could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. And just because the figures  Sunny relied on suggested  the lending  appeared to 
be affordable doesnt  mean it was fair when the other considerations Ive mentioned were 
also taken into account.
Ongoing need  
The purpose of short term loans was set out in guidance from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) (Section 6.25 referenced  by CONC Section 6.7). They are a short term solution to 
temporary cash flow problems . The FCA defined what is meant  by this short term solution 
(credit due to be repaid  or substantially repaid within 12 months of advancement) but it 
doesnt define what is meant by a temporary cash flow problem. Its reasonable to consider 
that this could mean different things  for different consumers depending on their 
circumstances. And in this case, I think by the time Mr B asked for Loan 7 he wasnt likely  to 
have been borrowing to solve a short term problem but rather to meet  an ongoing  need.
Effect on credit  rating
Im not concluding that Mr B was unable to access  any form of mainstream  credit  because of 
Sunnys loans. But I think  that borrowing  from Sunny  potentially limited his access to 
mainstream credit as the number of loans he borrowed was likely  to have been viewed  
negatively by other lenders. And so there  was a risk that agreeing  further credit at this point 
would cause harm.  It may also be the case that Mr B might have been  treated unfairly by 
other lenders. But this complaint is against Sunny and so its actions or omissions are the 
focus of my decision.  
Considering everything, I still think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
I appreciate that Sunny  disagrees  with the way Ive reached my view. In this decision Ive 
concentrated on dealing with the main points  raised that affect  the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my final 
decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr B paid on Loans 7 to 10 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*; and
2.Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 10 from Mr Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN28932938Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2893293