K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995, Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a secured loan on their property. Mr and 
Mrs G paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  interest. It 
covered Mr G in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Gs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side still have the original documents.  But I do have a sample 
copy of the loan agreement Mr and Mrs G wouldve used at the time of their sale. From that, 
it looks like the PPI wouldve been described  as optional, and its cost wouldve been  set 
out separately to the cost of the loan itself  rather than as something than was automatically  
included, for instance.  It looks  like Mr and Mrs G wouldve been given the choice  to buy the 
policy or leave it, and they wouldve  signed  the agreement to confirm their choices. I havent 
seen any wider problems  with Nationwides sales process from the time,  nor any evidence  
which shows that Mr and Mrs G were  misled in their sale. So I think  its most likely that 
Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs G aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it  though I can understand if they no longer  recall doing so after so long.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI for Mr G, so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to give Mr and Mrs G clear information about the PPI.
From the sample documentation, it looks like the policys cost wouldve been set out clearly,  
alongside the total payment it was protecting. So I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve understood 
how much  they would need to pay for the PPI and what  it was covering. In any case,  the 
policy doesnt seem  to have been  expensive given how much  it could pay out, and it looks  
like it wouldve covered  Mr G for longer than his existing benefits  wouldve lasted. It also 
meant Mr and Mrs G could protect  their savings and use them for other  things. Importantly, 
its worth  bearing in mind  that if theyd fallen behind  on their payments, Mr and Mrs G risked  
losing their home. So it looks like the policy couldve been  useful for them  in protecting  their 
home and giving some peace of mind. 
Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt sufficiently  point out all the main  things  the policy 
wouldnt cover. But Mr G doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ref: DRN20051402my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005140