K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Mrs E say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr E and Mrs E took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. They  paid a monthly  amount 
for the policy. Mr E was the only person covered by the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr E and Mrs Es case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr E and Mrs Es complaint because:
Ive seen a separate PPI application form thats been signed by Mr E and Mrs E and 
also a separate  direct  debit mandate form for the PPI.
Although Mr E and Mrs E say that they were pressured  into taking PPI Ive not seen 
strong evidence to support what theyve said. As this was a sale where Lloyds were 
making a recommendation to take PPI, its certainly a possibility that the adviser said 
that Mr E and Mrs E should take PPI, but this is very different to them saying that 
they had to take PPI.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that the PPI was presented  as optional, 
separate to and not a condition of their mortgage and Mr E and Mrs E chose  to take it 
out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr E and Mrs E, and it seems  to have been right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time alongside the 
nearest relevant policy document  to the date of sale. 
Mr E has said that he didnt need PPI because he had separate  insurance in place. 
But based  on what hes told us about  the insurance  I dont think  it means that the 
recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable  or that the PPI wasnt right for him. 
I say this because  the PPI would have paid out in addition to and seemingly for 
longer than the separate insurance. Also, as this mortgage was a significant and long 
term financial commitment, I think that Mr E and Mrs E could have found it useful if 
they were to experience an unexpected change in circumstances   such as Mr E 
being made unemployed or being  unwell and being  unable to work.
Ive also noted  what Mr E has said about his employment circumstances. But I still 
think that he was eligible  for the policy and it wouldnt have  been  very difficult for him 
Ref: DRN27981202to be able to make a claim on the policy. So I dont uphold this complaint for this 
reason.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, Lloyds also had to give Mr E and   
Mrs E good enough information about  the PPI so that they could decide if they 
wanted to take it out. I think that some  of the information could have been better. 
For example, I think Lloyds couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs E would still have bought it. I say this because  it 
seems that Mr E was eligible for the policy and had a need for it based  on what  Ive 
been told of his circumstances at the time of sale. So, although Mr E and Mrs E may 
not have been given  all of the information  about  the PPI, I dont think they would 
have made  a different decision if they had. 
Its also possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr E and Mrs E dont appear  to have been affected  by any of those  things. 
So, although  there may have been  failings with regards  to the information Mr E and 
Mrs E were  given about the PPI, I dont  think  that theyve lost out as a result. Ive 
noted Mr E and Mrs Es point about some  of the information not being  provided until 
after the policy had been set up, but they paid for this PPI policy by a monthly  
premium, they could cancel it at any time if they no longer wanted  it or their 
circumstances changed. 
As Ive already  said, I dont think that better information about the PPI would  have 
changed their decision  about taking it out. 
So having  considered all of the evidence alongside Mr E and Mrs Es comments, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr E and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E and Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2798120