K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 2004. 
Mr Ds mortgage was split in to two parts  each section had an MPPI policy associated with 
it. Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the MPPI policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr D says that he had no idea that he had taken out MPPI, and that the policies mustve 
been added  without his consent.
Lloyds has been  able to provide copies of Mr Ds mortgage and MPPI applications. I can see 
that the MPPI polices are presented as an optional product  and theres nothing that 
suggest an applications success would be influenced by taking or not taking MPPI.  Mr D 
has signed both mortgage applications  and MPPI  applications.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take 
out the MPPI  policies and he chose to take them out  although  I can understand why he 
cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI policies to Mr D so it had to check that they were right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that they were. 
For example Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI policies 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about  the MPPI  policies wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take them  out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like they would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  
like they were affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the MPPI policies would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI policies to Mr D.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Ref: DRN23699402Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2369940