K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE treated him unfairly  when he made a claim 
for his boiler under his insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the information  he was 
given when he took the policy out.
background
Mr H took out a landlord policy  to cover his boiler and heating system against  breakdowns.  
The policy is underwritten by Great Lakes, so its responsible for any claims and also this 
complaint. For ease, I will simply  refer to Great Lakes when referring  to the actions  of the 
businesses involved.
In May 2018  Great Lakes  attended the property because the boiler had broken down. The 
engineer found  the boiler to be beyond economic repair and estimated it to be over twelve  
years old. 
Mr H thought the policy entitled him to a £500 contribution towards  a new boiler. However, 
he was informed that because his boiler was more than six years old, the contribution was 
£250. Mr H says he hasnt  ever received the policy terms  so he wasnt aware  of this. He 
says the following then happened:
In June 2018 he sent Great Lakes  his replacement boiler invoice, expecting to 
receive the £250 contribution. But this wasnt received.
He chased  Great Lakes for the payment in August 2018  and he was told the cheque 
had been sent to his tenants in error.  But he was told a replacement cheque  would  
be sent to him.
The replacement cheque wasnt received, so he called Great  Lakes and this time he 
was asked to provide  his bank account details for the payment to be transferred. 
The bank  transfer payment wasnt  received either, so he called Great Lakes again. 
But he was told the payment hadnt been  made due to the original cheque being  
cashed by his tenants. Mr H also says that he was told for the first time the 
contribution was actually £76, rather than £250.  
In response to Mr Hs complaint Great Lakes said that an error had occurred with its system 
resulting in his details  being replaced by his tenants; and this meant the cheque was sent to 
the tenants in their name. Great Lakes offered Mr H £30 to apologise. However,  in terms of 
the £76 contribution towards his replacement  boiler,  Great Lakes explained the policy only 
entitled him to £250 because of his boilers age, less any remaining premiums. It also said 
he had a 14 day cooling-off period after the sale if he wasnt  happy with the policy terms.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  and one of our investigators thought it should be 
upheld, in part. She thought the policy terms were  clear  and only £76 was due; and if Mr H 
hadnt receive his policy  documents he should have questioned this. However,  she thought  
Mr H had been caused unnecessary inconvenience by Great Lakes sending the cheque to 
his tenants, noting the number of phone calls he had to make. She recommended  £100 
compensation be paid in total.
Ref: DRN24750852Mr H agreed with our investigators outcome, but Great Lakes didnt. It thought £100 wasnt  
fair in the circumstances, but it offered £60. Mr H wasnt prepared to accept £60, and our 
investigator maintained  £100 was fair. Great Lakes disagreed, so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  as our investigator,  for broadly the same  
reasons.
I have reviewed the policy terms that applied when the claim was made. The terms explain a 
boiler will not be repaired if this will cost more  than replacing it with a new boiler, or if parts 
arent available  instead a £500  contribution will be paid for a boiler  thats less than seven 
years old, or £250 for a boiler thats  older. The terms also explain that any outstanding  
premium will be deducted from the settlement amount  and the new boiler will not be 
insured by the policy as it will be covered by the manufacturer or fitter guarantee. 
Based on the information we have been given, Im satisfied that these terms were  applied 
correctly when calculating  the £76 settlement amount   and Mr H hasnt disputed  this.
However, Mr H says he wasnt  aware  of the £250 limit, or about the deduction of outstanding 
premiums. So Ive also considered the sale. 
During the sale call the handler explained to Mr H that the policy was being  taken  out on a 
non-advised basis; and although some of the policy benefits were  discussed,  the handler  
stressed that Mr H needed to read the documentation that would be sent to him to ensure 
the policy met his needs.
Nonetheless, those  selling insurance have  a responsibility to give clear  information about the 
cover being  provided,  including  any significant terms or conditions.  The information must  put 
the buyer in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy  
out. Given the age of Mr Hs boiler  and the annual policy premium at inception (which  was 
about £260);  Im persuaded the £250 limit (less any outstanding policy  premiums) was a 
significant term for him. I say this because its a term that would, in my opinion, likely  
influence his decision to take the policy out. 
However, the letters and the key facts document that were sent to Mr H at inception, and at 
renewal, did highlight only a fixed contribution would be paid for a boiler beyond economic 
repair; and the reader was referred to the policy  terms for the amount. The covering letter 
also confirmed the terms were included. Therefore, Im persuaded the terms in question 
were brought to Mr Hs attention and made sufficiently clear.
Due to the issues  with Great Lakes system, in my opinion its not clear  whether the sale and 
renewal documentation  were sent to Mr H or the tenants. But if Mr H didnt  receive his policy  
documents, I consider it reasonable to conclude the onus was on him to raise  this at the 
time. As I say, the handler stressed  the importance  of reading this information  during the 
sale call.
Ref: DRN24750853Having said all that, I am satisfied that Mr H has been caused  a fair amount of trouble by 
Great Lakes system error and handling  of the situation. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr H was eventually able to recover the £76 from his tenants. But its clear 
this caused him inconvenience. In my view,  Great Lakes wasnt  responsible  for the tenants 
cashing the cheque.  But its error  did create the situation. Mr H also says he had to make a 
number of phone calls to Great  Lakes to resolve  the issue and he was given misleading 
information about the settlement amount and the replacement payments   and overall,  
I accept what he says.  His recollections  are credible; and Great  Lakes hasnt provided 
anything that contradicts  Mr H. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that £100  compensation is a fair and reasonable reflection of the 
trouble that Mr H was caused. If the initial £30 cheque  has already been cashed  by Mr H, 
only a further  £70 needs to be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Great Lakes Insurance SE should compensate  Mr H a total of £100 for 
the trouble he was caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2475085