K820x#14complaint
Ms M say Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Ms M took out PPI in 2004 to cover her monthly mortgage repayments. She paid monthly 
premiums for the PPI, which covered her if she couldnt work  due to disablement  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Ms M disagreed with the adjudicator,  
so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case. 
Ms M says nothing was mentioned about  PPI and that she wasnt aware  shed been  sold it. I dont 
know for certain what was said during the sale but Lloyds has provided  documentation from the 
time which shows me that it made  it clear  to Ms M that it was offering her optional PPI that was 
separate to the mortgage. I believe Ms M chose to go ahead  with it knowing that was the case. 
For example, I can see Ms M signed a separate PPI application form in 2004  which  included  
details of the amount to be protected and how the benefits were to be split. She also signed a 
separate direct debit  instruction for the monthly  premium.  
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Ms M. So, as well as having  to give her enough information 
for Ms M to make an informed choice about taking it, Lloyds should have looked into whether it 
was right for her. I dont  know what steps Lloyds took but I think  its recommendation was suitable  
for her in any case. Ill explain why.
From what  Ms Ms told us about her circumstances in 2004, it appears she was eligible for the 
cover and Ive seen nothing to show  that the monthly premium of £27.50  was unaffordable for her. 
And I cant see that shed  have been  affected  by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the cover. 
Ms M says the policy excluded or limited  claims for depression, anxiety and stress, which  
are some of the most common reasons people are off work. However, the policy didnt 
contain any such exclusions  or limitations, or place any additional restrictions  or more  
onerous evidential  requirements in the event of a claim  on those grounds than would have 
applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms M would have expected  to 
make a disability claim on the policy without  first providing some  evidence to support that 
claim. 
Ms M says she was entitled to enhanced sick for a time but the PPI would have paid out on top of 
that and for up to 12 months per disability claim.  It included unemployment cover  too. I note Ms M 
also says she could  have  relied on help from her family if she got into financial difficulty.  But there 
was no way of knowing  for sure that this help would have been available when it was needed, 
whereas the PPI benefits were guaranteed.  
Ref: DRN26873742Overall, and taking into account that Ms Ms borrowing was secured against her home, I think  its 
likely shed  have valued the additional protection  the PPI provided  her with.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI, but I dont find that 
Ms M lost out because  of that. I say this because, for the same  reasons I think the PPI was 
suitable for her, I dont think  better information  would have stopped Ms M from buying  it. 
Finally, Ive considered  Ms Ms argument that Lloyds breached  the common  law duty of utmost 
good faith. She hasnt specifically explained  why she believes that to be the case.  I see no reason 
to find in her favour on this basis in any event. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2687374