K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  wont meet a claim 
she made on her home insurance, as it says she hadnt set her policy up when she thought  
she had.   
background
Mrs J was due to renew her home insurance. She used an online comparison site to see if 
she could buy the insurance she wanted  at a better price. Mrs J decided to move her 
insurance to Lloyds and says she completed  the process online. Shortly after that she 
received a couple of emails about  the credit agreement shed decided to use to pay for her 
cover in instalments,  and believed the policy was live. She told her existing insurer  she 
wouldnt renew her policy with it as shed found  cover elsewhere.
A few weeks  later Mrs J needed to make a claim, as her son had accidentally  damaged  his 
computer equipment. She contacted  Lloyds,  and was dismayed to be told she had no cover. 
Lloyds initially said it thought its systems  had been corrupted and that Mrs J should  have 
had the cover  so it said she could set up the policy  and it would progress  her claim. It said 
it would  pay her £50 for the inconvenience shed suffered.
Some time later Lloyds said it had reviewed  the situation, and that it now thought Mrs J 
hadnt properly  completed the application process  when  she first tried to set up her policy. It 
said that as she only set up a valid policy after shed reported  the damage, it wouldnt 
consider that claim. It said it would pay her a further  £225 compensation to make up for the 
fact that shed been led to believe her claim would be met when it wouldnt be, and for not 
paying the initial compensation straight away.
Mrs J complained about this, but Lloyds didnt change its position. So Mrs J brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Lloyds should meet  Mrs Js claim.  He didnt think the information 
sent out to Mrs J made it clear enough  that the policy hadnt  been set up.
Lloyds doesnt  think thats fair and Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If there  is contradictory  or missing 
evidence, as there is here, I reach  my decision on the balance of probability  in other  words  
what I think most likely  happened given the evidence and the wider  circumstances.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint, and Ill explain  why.
Lloyds says Mrs Js policy application was declined, as thats what its internal records  show. 
It says Mrs J would  have  received a message  about  this during the application. It says this 
would happen  whether  it was because it couldnt provide the cover requested, or if Mrs J 
didnt complete the application fully. Lloyds sent us an example of the type of message Mrs J 
would have received if it couldnt provide cover  but not one that would be displayed  if Mrs J 
simply didnt complete the process.  Furthermore, it hasnt shown me either of those things 
actually happened   and Mrs J says she didnt see a message at the time. 
Ref: DRN20910882Lloyds has also said Mrs J only got as far as asking for a quote and didnt complete the 
buying process. It again sent its internal records to show  this. It seems to have sent records  
of several quotes   but I can see that the dates of these are all from some  time after the 
policy was eventually sold. Thats because, once the quotes are out of date (more than 60 
days old), the dates on Lloyds records automatically  change to a search  date. That makes 
them unreliable as a source  of information  about  when Mrs J applied for insurance.
Lloyds also said at one point that it thought its system had corrupted  the application. 
Im not persuaded I should attach  much weight to any of these points, as it doesnt look to 
me as though  Lloyds is entirely clear  about  what did happen, and the evidence its provided 
isnt conclusive..
Whatever happened online,  I think its more  important to look at the emails and documents 
Lloyds sent Mrs J. Thats because this is the information shed  have likely  relied  upon   and 
which should make  it clear if she has to do anything more to set up her policy.
Lloyds says it sent Mrs J a copy of a potential credit agreement, as its required to do before 
a customer enters into a credit agreement. It says the email  made it clear that  in order to 
set up the policy  Mrs J had to go back to her online application and confirm she was happy 
with the agreement.
Lloyds says Mrs J didnt  do that.
Mrs J hasnt said she did follow that process. Instead she says she thought   because shed 
been sent a copy of the credit agreement   that her policy would be live. And she says she 
later confirmed with the comparison  website that she had to have a live policy in order  to 
receive some awards  and that she had these.
Ive looked at the emails sent to Mrs J  both when she first applied  (unsuccessfully as it 
turned out) for insurance and when she later bought  a policy.  On both occasions  she was 
sent the information about the credit agreement, and on the second occasion other emails 
welcoming her to Lloyds.
Lloyds says Mrs J should have realised she wasnt insured from the information sent first 
time. Ive looked at that email.  The instruction to go back online to complete the application 
is right at the end of a five or six page email,  which contains a lot of terms and conditions 
that apply to the credit agreement, including how much it costs and the monthly instalments. 
I dont think this does  enough to draw  Mrs Js attention to the fact that she needs to do more  
to finish setting up her policy. Right at the top of the credit agreement it says Mrs J should  
save it or print it off. Id expect any important instructions to be at the beginning of a 
document or possibly emphasised in an accompanying email. The way this document  is 
presented suggests  keeping  a copy of it is the most  important thing for Mrs J to do. So I think 
its reasonable for Mrs J to think shed done all she needed to. 
I appreciate that when  Mrs J did eventually set up a policy successfully  she received 
additional documents  one of which confirmed her cover. But I wouldnt expect Mrs J to 
realise these were missing the first time round, as shes not an expert in these matters.
Ref: DRN20910883Taking everything into account  I dont think,  on balance, that Lloyds did enough to make it 
clear Mrs J didnt  have  the insurance  she thought  shed bought.  To put things right Lloyds 
should now meet Mrs Js claim in line with any relevant terms and conditions in Mrs Js 
policy. If it does that, then it seems fair that it can withdraw the offer of compensation for 
loss of expectation  from the £225 it offered. Thats because some of that was to make  up 
for her claim being rejected when  shed been told it would be accepted,  and thats no longer 
the case. 
I dont know how much of the £225  was compensation for Lloyds not paying Mrs Js initial  
£50 when it should have, but Lloyds should now tell Mrs J what  this was and pay it, if it 
hasnt already. If Lloyds  has paid Mrs J the full £225, Ill leave it with Lloyds  to decide 
whether it should  deduct any of this from the claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to 
meet Mrs Js claim subject to any other terms and conditions in her policy. It must also pay 
any remaining compensation for not making a payment when it said it would.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2091088