K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that AXA Insurance UK Plc provided a poor service and caused delay 
when he made a claim under his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr L had an accident  in his car in 2018 and made  a claim to his insurer,  AXA. An agent 
(supplier) dealt with the assessment of Mr Ls car and decided  it was a write  off. AXA settled 
Mr Ls claim by paying him the market value for his car. 
In July 2018 AXA replied to Mr Ls complaints which in summary were that:
When he called AXAs out of hours service to report  the incident, it wasnt able to 
assure him that his policy was in place  and the claim would be covered. 
Mr L believed the recovery  agent should have been with him within  40 minutes. 
AXAs supplier could  only be contacted through a premium rate number which  he 
believed breached the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  rules.  Mr L said these calls 
cost him £25.
AXA provided a poor service and caused  a delay which  led to Mr L being without a 
car for two weeks. During this time he had to use public transport. 
AXA said that as the supplier isnt regulated by the FCA, they arent  required to follow  the 
FCAs rules on call charging. It accepted  there was some delay caused in settling the claim.  
Some of this was due to Mr Ls dispute about  the market value AXA intended to pay. AXA 
said it had provided  Mr L with a courtesy car for two weeks in line with the policy.
AXA said it would pay Mr L £150  compensation in recognition of the poor service  and delay 
it caused  and a goodwill gesture for the calls Mr L made to its supplier which he had to pay 
for at premium rate.
In September  2018 Mr L made  a second  complaint to AXA.  He received court  papers from 
the third party  solicitors for the costs  to repair the barrier Mr L hit in February 2018.
AXA upheld Mr Ls second complaint.  It said it had received a request for payment from the 
third party solicitors but hadnt acted on it. It settled the claim in September  2018. For the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr L, it paid him £200 compensation. 
Mr L asked us to look at both of his complaints. He didnt agree  that AXAs supplier didnt fall 
under the FCA rules  for call charging  as he believes it acts as an agent for AXA. And he 
didnt feel the compensation awarded  was enough  to reflect  the distress and inconvenience  
AXA caused  him. 
Our investigator overall thought  AXA had been  reasonable.  Mr L didnt agree. So the case  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Ref: DRN27807712Mr Ls policy with AXA doesnt  provide  a timescale for a recovery agent to attend. AXA says 
it has its own timescale of 90 minutes.  
Mr Ls car was recovered around 80 minutes  after he reported  the incident.  I havent seen 
anything to suggest that AXA should  have arranged recovery within 40 minutes. So I think  
AXA didnt do anything  wrong here.
I understand the out of hours  service  operator wasnt able to assure  Mr L that his policy was 
in place and his claim would be covered. Mr L reported the incident on a Saturday afternoon. 
Mr L was able to validate  the claim with AXA on the next working  day. I cant conclude  that 
AXAs service was unreasonable here as it isnt unusual  to operate  a limited service out of 
hours. Mr L was still able to make  use of the recovery option under his policy. 
It took a month to settle Mr Ls total loss claim. From the notes provided by AXA, it offered 
Mr L a market value  for his car two weeks  after the incident  which in my view is a 
reasonable timeframe   but Mr L disputed the valuation. AXA reconsidered  additional 
information Mr L provided. This took some  time.  Overall Mr L was without use of a car for 
two weeks as the 14 day availability of a courtesy  car ended.  
AXA said its supplier isnt subject to the FCA rules  for call charging. So it says it has no 
control over this. However, in recognition of some delay it says the supplier caused, it paid 
Mr L £150 compensation. 
I think AXAs resolution was fair to reflect  the inconvenience caused to Mr L. In cases  where 
we consider loss of use, we apply  a daily rate of £10 a day. Although AXA isnt responsible  
for a two week delay,  I think overall  its compensation  of £150 is fair as it also considered the 
costs Mr L paid in calls to contact its supplier. 
In September  2018 AXA told Mr L that in July 2018 it had received a request to pay the third 
partys costs under the claim. But AXA had failed to deal with the request. AXA apologised  to 
Mr L as this led to him being contacted directly by the third party solicitors in September 
2018 with a court summons. AXA settled the third partys claim costs in September 2018. 
Ive no doubt receiving the court  summons caused Mr L worry and upset. This could have 
been avoided  if AXA had promptly dealt with the third partys request for settlement in July 
2018.
I understand that because the claim was settled in September 2018, it hasnt had an impact  
on Mr Ls credit record. Unfortunately it appears that the third party solicitors continued to 
contact Mr L after it had received payment from AXA. I cant say that this is anything AXA is 
responsible for. But for the worry  and upset the courts  summons  caused Mr L, I think  AXAs  
compensation award of £200  which it paid in January 2019 is fair and reasonable. This is 
similar to awards  which  we give - and examples of our awards  are available on our website.
I think AXA provided some poor service.  But I think it did enough to put things right. I realise 
Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But considering everything, I think AXA dealt with 
his complaints reasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  the complaints.
Ref: DRN27807713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2780771