K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. She says that it provided advice in 
relation to an investment she made  within  her self investment personal pension scheme 
(SIPP).
Mrs T is represented  by solicitors.
background
In 2011 Mrs T opened a SIPP.  The SIPP operators were AJ Bell.
In December 2011 Mrs T purchased 1.6 million  shares in a company, Imperial  Music and 
Media PLC at a cost of over £19,000  from funds in the SIPP.  Trading in the company was 
stopped in 2015. The shares were purchased using Barclays stockbroking service.
Mrs T complained to Barclays in 2018  and said:
Barclays advised her in relation to the Imperial Music and Media investment;
As a discretionary fund manager,  Barclays  was required  to provide independent 
objective advice;  
She was allowed to invest in an unregulated collective investment scheme;
She has suffered  a financial  loss due to a breach  of contract, negligence, and breach 
of statutory duty by Barclays;
The investment  was plus stock shares.  Whilst a recognised stock exchange, it was a 
stock exchange  for small cap companies and so, high risk;
It wasnt appropriate for the SIPP operator to allow a high risk single asset 
investment to be made  within  a SIPP; 
The SIPP operator breached Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) 2.1.1 R. 
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that it hadnt given any advice.  It acted as 
stockbroker only. It was not the independent financial adviser. 
Mrs T referred her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by an investigator. He 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. He said that the shares  were  purchased  via the 
Barclays stockbroker service.  There  was an agreement  between the SIPP  provider and 
Barclays that Barclays would provide  dealing  and investment administration  services for the 
SIPP. The terms of this agreement set out that Barclays  provided an execution-only service  
for the purchase  and sale of investments. Mrs T purchased the shares  after she contacted 
them and said she had an offer from another broker for the purchase  of the same shares. 
The investigator felt that this suggested advice may have already taken place. There was no 
evidence that Mrs T thought she was getting,  or expected to get, advice from Barclays.
The investigator didnt  think Barclays was providing  an advisory service or acting as a 
discretionary fund manager. He said that it had provided a brokering platform  for Mrs T to 
make the investment and nothing more. And that it wasnt the SIPP operator. It wasnt  
obliged to give advice  or to conduct due diligence on the proposed  investment.
Mrs Ts representatives  said that they didnt agree and asked for a decision  from an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN21957402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
There is very little that I can add to what the investigator has already said.  Mrs T didnt  
accept his view,  but no further  arguments or evidence has been submitted on her behalf.
Mrs T says that Barclays gave advice, but that is disputed by Barclays and there is no 
documentary evidence  at all to show that it did give any advice. There  is nothing to show  
that it gave advice in relation to the investment in Imperial Music and Media Plc that Mrs T 
made in 2011.
The documentary evidence suggests  that Barclays provided an execution-only stockbroking 
service. The terms of its agreement expressly  excluded any advice being provided.  The 
records from 2011 suggest that Mrs T had already identified  this investment before she 
contacted Barclays.  Whilst its not clear  precisely how she had done so, I agree  with the 
investigator that this suggests she may have  already  received some  advice, guidance  or 
recommendation. But there is just no evidence that Barclays  recommended  this investment 
to her.
As the stockbroker in an execution-only  transaction, Barclays  wasnt under any obligation to 
give advice. Barclays wasnt the SIPP operator and there was no obligation on it to conduct 
due diligence  on the investment itself.
The Markets  in Financial  Instruments Directive II and Financial Advice Market Review  II did 
introduce some new obligations on businesses when transacting  on an execution-only basis 
in complex products. These require, amongst  other things, that a business  check  a 
consumers knowledge,  experience and understanding of the risks involved. But these 
obligations only arose from January 2018  and so were not applicable in 2011 and are not 
relevant here.
Im sorry  that Mrs T has lost out. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays did anything  
wrong so that it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint. Im not 
satisfied that it gave any advice and Im not satisfied  that it had any obligation to do more 
than it did in terms of due diligence. This was an execution-only transaction.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21957403
Ref: DRN2195740