K822xComplaint
Mrs F complains that Metro Bank PLC made a mistake in opening her Individual  Savings 
Account (ISA).
background 
Mrs F applied to open an ISA with Metro Bank  at the beginning of February 2018. She 
completed an application form and made a substantial deposit. The bank told her she 
needed her national insurance (NI) number which she didnt have at the time. It said she 
needed to provide it within 30 days. At the end of that period the bank converted her ISA into 
a standard savings account because it said it hadnt received her NI number.  
Mrs F complained because she said she phoned the bank  with her NI number the day after 
she made her application and her deposit. But the bank said they couldnt  find confirmation 
shed given her NI number to them within the required period of time. 
After this Service became  involved the bank accepted Mrs F had provided this information 
within the relevant timescale. It offered her the difference  in interest between  the ISA shed 
applied for and the savings account  it opened for her. This was from the date she applied to 
open the account to the date she removed the funds to an alternative ISA with another  
provider. The total of interest was £134.85 and the bank agreed to pay her compensation of 
£100. So the total amount on offer was £234.85. The adjudicator believed this to be fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs F did not agree as she said shes lost out on the potential earning  of the 2017/2018 ISA 
allowance for life. And she said she had the funds  available to open another  ISA in 
2018/2019 but decided  to transfer the Metro account as a protest to its attitude. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank  has accepted  it made  a mistake  so the issue I have to decide  is whether its 
done enough to put things right for Mrs F.
When a bank has done something wrong  we expect  it to put its customer back  into the 
position they wouldve been  in if the mistake hadnt happened.  Metro Bank has offered to 
pay Mrs F the amount  of interest she lost out on before she transferred her account to 
another provider.  And its offered to pay her £100  for the inconvenience  its caused her in its 
handling of her ISA application. I think that fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mrs F wants compensation for the loss of potential interest in the future. But she made  the 
decision to transfer  her account  with the Metro  Bank  into an ISA with another provider before 
she brought her complaint to this Service. And I know she wont agree with me but in those  
circumstances I cant fairly find Metro Bank was responsible for any potential losses in the 
future. 
Ref: DRN23264502my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  Metro  Bank PLC must pay Mrs F
£134.85 loss of interest and
£100 compensation for the inconvenience  its caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2326450