K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  that Quick Quid provided  to Mrs C from March 
2009 onwards.  Mrs Cs last loan was provided in April 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Cs complaint about loans three to six. So he thought that Mrs C 
shouldnt have been provided with these loans. Quick Quid  didnt agree with our adjudicator  
in full. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs C, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mrs C was unlikely to have  been  able to make 
her loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan three. I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN24524212by the time of loan three, Mrs C had owed Quick Quid  money  for a period of nine 
months. It had taken Mrs C five months to eventually repay loan one. And loan two 
was for double the amount. Loan three was for nearly double the amount again and it 
was taken on the day that loan two was eventually settled. In my view, Mrs C owing 
Quick Quid money  for this period of time,  in these circumstances, was in itself a clear  
demonstration of Mrs Cs inability  to settle her loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.  
Given Mrs Cs loan history Quick  Quid  ought  to have realised that it was more likely 
than not Mrs C was borrowing to cover the hole paying back  earlier  loans was 
leaving in her finances. And, in my view, Quick  Quid lending  to Mrs C in this way led 
to her paying large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  an increasing debt to 
Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs C lost out because Quick  Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Cs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Cs complaint about  loans  three to six and Quick Quid  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans three to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct all interest  and charges applied from the outset of loan six from the current 
outstanding balance. An outstanding  balance  is likely to remain  even after all 
adjustments are made. So Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mrs C should  it wish to do so. Its possible that an 
outstanding balance will remain  after this and as a result no compensation will be 
due to Mrs C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN24524213my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452421