K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is making  this complaint based on her and her late husbands  circumstances in 2003. 
She says she and the late Mr D were  mis-sold  a Mortgage Payment Protection  Insurance  
(MPPI) policy with their joint mortgage. Santander  UK Plc is responsible for the sale.
Although their mortgage was in both their names, only the late Mr D was named on the 
MPPI policy. Mrs D wasnt covered by it.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments with great care, to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve had responses from both 
parties. The company  representing Mrs D and the late Mr D told us that it had nothing more  
to add and would await my final decision. Santander didnt add anything either. 
So having  taken stock of everything  weve been  sent in, theres  no reason for me to change 
the findings I set out in my provisional  decision. Im afraid I think  its much more  likely  that 
the MPPI  policy was known about and agreed to at the time of the sale.  I also think  the 
policy was suitable  for the late Mr D for the reasons I outlined  in my provisional decision.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs D.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs D and the late Mr Ds complaint.  And dont require Santander UK Plc to 
pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22823792summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs D is making  this complaint based on her and her late husbands circumstances in 2003. She says 
she and the late Mr D were  mis-sold a Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance  (MPPI) policy with 
their joint mortgage. Santander UK Plc is responsible  for the sale.
Although their mortgage was in both their names, it seems  that only the late Mr D was named on the 
MPPI policy. Mrs D wasnt covered  by it.
background
One of our adjudicators  assessed  this complaint and provided Mrs D with a view.  He thought  the 
complaint ought to be upheld.
But Santander  hasnt  agreed with this and has asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im afraid I dont agree with our adjudicator and Im currently thinking  about  not 
upholding the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D but Ill explain why this is.
I note Mrs D is represented  by a company in this matter. The main  points of complaint, as I 
understand them, is that Mrs D and her late husband werent aware  such  a policy had ever been set 
up on their mortgage; so they hadnt ever agreed to buy cover like this. Its also said that they didnt 
need this type of cover because of some forms of protection they already.
Id like to say that I certainly dont doubt  that Mrs D may now honestly and genuinely believe this 
MPPI was mis-sold. And its unfortunate that Santander  couldnt show us an original application  form 
(or similar) which clarifies that Mrs D and her late husband were asked about  MPPI  or that they 
properly gave  their consent.
However, I do also bear in mind that these  events were over 15 years ago and the mortgage in 
question was also closed  many years ago too. Businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. 
I also think  theres quite a lot of other evidence  to support  that Santander did obtain Mrs D and the 
late Mr Ds consent.  This is because  firstly, I can see Mrs D and the late Mr D already had a 
mortgage in existence  before this MPPI  policy was added. By definition,  they would have therefore  
known they didnt need to agree to the MPPI cover to get their mortgage approved.
Secondly, we were also sent an example of the type of mortgage application  form that Santander 
used at around that time. In the absence of the actual  form, I think  its fair of me to consider this 
example. I note that there is a section about MPPI on the application form which  specifically shows 
MPPI is something consumers can either choose or reject. 
Thirdly, I can see that when a policy was eventually  set up, the late Mr D was sent a letter  describing 
the policy.  We were  sent the actual copy and at the top it clearly said Welcome  to Paymentcare.  If 
hed never  asked for such a policy, I think Mr D would  have wanted to know what the letter  was 
about.
Ref: DRN22823793So Im afraid I think  its much  more  likely that the policy  was known about at the time.  I can accept  
Mrs D now no longer  remembers this, but the evidence points to MPPI being  requested  and agreed 
to. 
Next I looked at why our adjudicator thought we might uphold the complaint.  We were told by the 
company representing Mrs D that the late Mr D had been  suffering from asthma since 1975.  
Sometimes we do find that claiming for pre-existing medical conditions  can be hard for consumers 
and that they werent always told about this when  deciding whether  or not to buy the MPPI cover. We 
then need to think about whether this omission would  have made  the consumer alter what they went  
on to do i.e. not buy the policy  after all.
So I asked for more information about this medical condition.
The company representing  Mrs D also said she and the late Mr D also had an existing form of MPPI 
protection already  with another  bank,  at the time of the sale.  Once again, I asked for more 
information about this potentially  relevant  matter.
But Im afraid I havent been given very clear answers. The company told us that the medical 
condition dates may be incorrect and it couldnt say much about  how the condition  affected the late 
Mr D. I certainly  wouldnt  wish to imply  that the medical condition wasnt of concern  for him. But this 
particular MPPI cover  only kicked in for sickness from work after 28 days  of absence. I dont think 
this particular condition  would have therefore caused the late Mr D to not buy the policy, if hed been 
given better  information at the time of the sale. The company representing Mrs D couldnt tell us 
much about the other MPPI  policy either. 
I completely recognise this will no doubt be a sensitive issue  for Mrs D to deal with. But Santander, 
not unreasonably, has asked for more  information about the issues raised by the company 
representing Mrs D. The answers provided  are currently somewhat vague, but Ill look very carefully 
at anything else Mrs D herself can say about these two issues. If she has any documentary  
evidence, that will also be looked at in detail.
Santander concedes the MPPI may have been recommended as part of an advised sale. This 
means it had a duty to make  sure it was suitable for the late Mr D. 
Overall, I think  it was.
He seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions we tend 
to see in these types of policy. Mrs D said her late husband already had some sickness protection 
with his job. Ive thought carefully about this, but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean  the cover 
wasnt suitable  for him. I think their mortgage would  have been a significant and long-term  financial 
commitment and secured  against  their home. So the consequences of them not being able to make 
the repayments could have been serious.  The MPPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a 
monthly sum for up to 12 months if hed needed to claim. 
So I think the policy was suitable for the late Mr D.
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear,  fair and not misleading. In my view, 
there is comprehensive  evidence that the costs  were  clearly set out during the sale, including in the 
letter Ive mentioned  above. It pointed out that the monthly premium would be £23.19 and it said an 
extra months  cover would  be collected for June and July 2003.  To set this up, a signed  direct debit 
would also have needed  to be completed.
In summary, I think theres quite a lot of evidence to show this policy  was specifically  asked for by 
Mrs D and the late Mr D. I sympathise that with all thats happened, Mrs D probably  finds these  
events very hard to remember.  But there were several  steps necessary to get the policy added to 
their mortgage and I think Santander provided  a lot of information about it.
Ref: DRN22823794I think  its more  likely  that the MPPI was tailored  to suit their needs of the time. I dont currently think  
it was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ds and the late Mr Ds complaint. 
However, Ill look very carefully at any further evidence  Mrs D wants  to send me, provided  its before 
22 March  2019.
Ref: DRN2282379