K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs B say West Bromwich  Building Society (West  Brom) mis-sold  them  mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI).  
background
Mr W and Mrs B arranged  mortgage  borrowing with West Brom in 1997, 2000 and 2001. 
West Brom  (including its agents) sold them a regular premium PPI policy  on each  occasion  
to protect  their repayments  if they couldnt  work  due to disability or unemployment. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and didnt  find that the PPI had been mis-
sold. Mr W and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to 
review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr W and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr W and Mrs Bs main  points of complaint were that they didnt know  the PPI was optional  
and that they were  led to believe they had to have it if they wanted the mortgages.
I accept this is Mr W and Mrs Bs genuine and honest recollection of the sales now. But Im 
mindful that the most  recent sale took place  around  18 years ago and that their 
recollections might no longer be accurate.  Unsurprisingly,  there are gaps in the information 
thats still available from the sales. Nevertheless,  Ive also taken  into account the sales  
paperwork thats been provided,  the most relevant  policy documentation we hold and 
experience of what the typical  features  of these policies were. 
That paperwork includes  copies of separate PPI application  forms for all three sales. These 
included details of who was to be covered, the monthly benefit amounts and the monthly 
premiums. All three forms were signed and dated.
Ive also seen copies  of the signed mortgage  application forms from 1997 and 2001.  These 
included separate sections  headed  LOAN PROTECTION SCHEME and asked them  to 
tick if they wanted single or joint cover. Boxes  were  ticked to indicate Mr W and/or Mrs B 
wanted PPI.
Overall, after carefully weighing up what Mr W and Mrs B have said along  with the available  
paperwork, I think it likely they were aware  both that the policies were optional  and that they 
didnt have to take them to get their mortgages.
Mr W and Mrs B argue they were confused about the policies they were  taking out as they 
werent referred to by West Brom  as PPI. They suggest that, if they had been called PPI, 
they wouldnt have  taken them. However, I havent seen anything to suggest theyd have 
opted against taking out the policies purely  if they went  by another name.  
Ref: DRN27944752I think, at the very least, the way the policies were described in the paperwork meant Mr W 
and Mrs B broadly  knew they were buying  insurance to protect their payments. For 
example, the mortgage application form from 1997 explains:
A SPECIAL SCHEME HAS BEEN DEVELOPED TO ENABLE YOU TO MEET 
YOUR MONTHLY MORTGAGE  REPAYMENTS IF YOU ARE OFF WORK AS A 
RESULT OF SICKNESS, ACCIDENT OR IF YOU ARE MADE REDUNDANT.  
The mortgage application form dated 2001 included almost identical wording.
If West Brom  had recommended the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B it should have checked that it 
was right for them. I dont  know for sure what actions West Brom took, but I think the 
policies were right for them in any case based on what I know of their circumstances. For 
instance:
It seems  Mr W and Mrs B both would have been eligible for the cover at the relevant 
times. And they wouldnt  have  been affected by any of the main things the PPI likely  
excluded or limited cover  for.
Mr W and Mrs B were  entitled to statutory sick pay but the PPI would have covered 
their monthly repayments for up to 12 months  per claim. It covered them for 
unemployment too. The PPI meant they could have retained  any savings theyd built 
up or used them  to help cover  their other  daily expenses if they werent working. 
The mortgages were  significant and long-term loans secured against their home.  
Overall I think  theyd  have found the protection the PPI provided to be useful. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the monthly  premiums would have been unaffordable 
for Mr W and Mrs B. The PPI was flexible in that it could  have been cancelled  at any 
time if they no longer wanted it.
West Brom  also had to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr W 
and Mrs B could make  an informed choice  about  whether they wanted  to buy PPI. I cant 
say for certain what they were told or that West  Brom told them  everything  it should have. 
But, as Ive explained, it looks like they wanted  this type of cover  and Im satisfied theyd 
have seen it as useful and affordable. So I dont think  better information would have put 
them off buying  it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think West Brom has to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B. But West Brom will pay back some of the cost of the PPI sold in 
2001 to Mr W and Mrs B because:
West Brom got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr W and Mrs B about that. Because it didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.
To put that right, West Broms  basically offered to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think 
that offers fair in this case. 
Ref: DRN27944753what the business needs  to do
West Brom  has to pay back to Mr W and Mrs B any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the relevant PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. West Brom 
should also pay back to Mr W and Mrs B any extra interest they paid because  of that.
West Brom  should pay back to Mr W and Mrs B the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. West Brom should 
also pay Mr W and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so West Bromwich Building Society doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B.
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Mr W and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2794475