K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about advice  given  by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire Financial Advisers
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of her deferred benefits  in a former employers pension  scheme  to
a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  to invest in an unregulated investment.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Mrs Ws complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 
2020. Ive summarised  the findings  I reached  below. But Ill first recap the facts  and how our 
investigation progressed.  
Mrs W had deferred benefits  in a former employers final salary pension  scheme.  She was
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm).  Firm A
didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on final salary pension  transfers.  So Mrs W 
was referred to HDIFA.
In February 2012,  following advice from HDIFA, Mrs W transferred  the value of her deferred
benefits in her former employers scheme (in total £45,867.78) to a SIPP.  Later that month
£39,799.50 was invested in carbon credits.
Mrs W, through her representative, complained to Meyado in May 2016.  Meyado didnt
uphold the complaint. Mrs Ws representative  asked  us to look into it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said HDIFA had given Mrs W unsuitable advice
and shouldnt have  recommended she transfer her deferred final salary  benefits  to a SIPP.
He referred to the regulators consultation about  updating the redress  methodology where
unsuitable advice  had been given  to transfer from an occupational  pension scheme and said
hed contact the parties later about how redress should be calculated, which he did.
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. In summary it said our analysis of
the factual matters was flawed; there  was an absence of evidence about Firm As role; it
wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when the money was invested on the
advice of someone else; and HDIFA had no control over but was being  blamed for Mrs Ws 
investment decisions.  
We made some further enquiries of Mrs W. We were aware that in some cases investors  
had received incentive payments. Wed  asked Mrs W earlier  if shed received a payment and 
she said she hadnt. We asked her for copies of her bank statements for a twelve  month  
period from the date the investment was made. She told us, due to the time elapsed,  her 
bank couldnt  produce statements before 2012. She also mentioned she had another  
account at the time but she couldnt recall any details and so hadnt been  able to get any 
statements.
We asked her to renew her efforts. We said wed generally expect a bank to have records
going back to about 2012 (even if these  took a little while to obtain and a small charge was
made). And the bank  should be able to trace dormant or closed accounts  from data such  as
address, name and date of birth. We explained  that if she couldnt  provide bank statements
then, as we knew  that in most cases incentive payments were  received, we may consider it
Ref: DRN24524182fairest to proceed  on the basis that it was likely a payment was received of, say, 25% of the
transfer value.  
Meyado had more  recently made  some  further representations about the High Courts
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch). The claimant had argued that 
the underlying  investment had been  manifestly  unsuitable and the SIPP  provider had a duty 
to advise on the underlying investment. The claim was dismissed. The court held that the 
SIPP provider didnt  owe a duty to advise  on the underlying investments and there was no 
obligation to refuse the claimants  instructions to transfer.  Meyado  argued the judgment was 
material to Mrs Ws complaint.  Meyado  said it would  be making further submissions.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 13 October 2020 I upheld  the complaint. In brief my 
main findings were:
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mrs W without considering the overall
transaction. To determine  if the transfer  to a SIPP was suitable HDIFA had to
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset
that Mrs W intended to invest in unregulated investments.
The regulators 18 January 2013  alert makes  it clear that HDIFA couldnt just advise 
on the SIPP itself.  The underlying investment was part and parcel of the advice to 
transfer. HDIFA needed to consider its suitability too. Even  if the introduction had 
come from another  regulated firm and HDIFA had made  it clear  that it wasnt  giving 
advice on the underlying investment.
what would  suitable  advice have been?
As per COBS  19.1.6G, HDIFA should  have started by assuming the transfer wouldnt
be suitable. Further examination would have  confirmed  that.
The assessment  of Mrs Ws attitude  to risk  that she was an adventurous, even 
speculative investor wasnt  credible. And she didnt have the capacity for loss that 
could result. Her deferred benefits represented her only pension provision. Her 
earnings were modest and her ability to make  further provision was limited. Even if 
shed described  her deferred  pension as insignificant it was up to HDIFA to test that 
and explain shed  be giving  up valuable  guaranteed  benefits  in return for those 
dependent on investment performance.
The risks associated  with the investment were considerable. It was unregulated. I 
referred to what the regulator had said about  that type of investment  that it was 
high risk and unlikely to be suitable  for the vast majority of consumers. And then 
usually only for a proportion of an investors funds. Here virtually  all of Mrs Ws only 
pension (representing some 29 years  service)  was invested in a single unregulated 
fund. She should have  been advised  against  transferring and investing  any of her 
pension funds in carbon credits. The advice was unsuitable.
Meyado didnt argue that its advice  was suitable.  Its position  was that, due to the 
involvement of others, it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Mrs Ws 
losses in full. It could  be argued that her losses stem mainly from the failure  of the 
investment. And, given  the funds transferred were initially held in cash, no loss had 
resulted by the time HDIFAs  role ceased. But HDIFA knew  that, ultimately,  the 
proposed investment  was in carbon credits. The money was only available to invest 
because HDIFA had recommended the transfers  and facilitated  them.  Mrs W may 
Ref: DRN24524183have signed to confirm she understood the investments may be high risk and that 
responsibility didnt  rest with HDIFA. But that didnt absolve HDIFA from its regulatory 
duty to consider the investments too.
other parties  involvement
Mrs W had complained to HDIFA in May 2016 and to Firm As principal in June 2016. 
Her representative had also made a subject access request (SAR). Firm As principal  
replied in August  2016 saying Firm A hadnt  given advice or arranged  a SIPP or any 
associated investments on Mrs Ws behalf.  The documentation shows Mrs W 
required advice about her pension arrangements which included  deferred  benefits in 
a former employers defined benefits scheme. Firm A couldnt  advise about that and 
arranged, with Mrs Ws agreement, to introduce  her to another  regulated firm.
We received Mrs Ws complaint in July 2016.  On her complaint form she named 
HDIFA as the business  responsible  for her complaint. And the covering letter made  it 
clear the complaint was being made against Meyado. 
When we told Meyado wed be looking into a complaint about it, Meyado said (its 
letter dated  22 September 2016) that the complaint should  be redirected. We did 
that. But Firm As principal didnt  agree the complaint should be against  it. We then 
reverted to dealing  with the complaint against Meyado - which was the complaint 
wed received. I think that was correct in the circumstances  and given there was no 
dispute that HDIFA had given the advice to transfer.
Our approach reflects the facts of the matter. Mrs Ws complaint may have initially 
been directed  at Firm A. But who a complainant  may think  is responsible (whether on 
legal advice or otherwise) isnt determinative.  We dont take any denial of 
responsibility at face value. Our investigation and determination of a complaint 
against HDIFA reflects its central  role. It isnt irrational but reflects  the circumstances 
of the case.
I referred to DISP 3.6.1R. It requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. 
I also referred to DISP 3.5.2R, DISP  3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3G. I agreed  the 
involvement of other parties is a relevant factor.
Mrs Ws complaint  had been  made against  HDIFA. That didnt mean I hadnt 
considered the involvement of others.  Or that we wont  consider whether any other  
party might  have  some responsibility.  But a conclusion  that, despite  the involvement  
of other  (regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld against the party 
complained about, and that party should  meet the consumers  losses  in full, wont 
necessarily be unfair  or unreasonable.
I could understand  why Meyado  argued  that Mrs Ws losses arose from the 
investment and not the transfer or the SIPP itself. But if the transfer hadnt happened  
and the SIPP hadnt been set up, Mrs W wouldnt have been in a position to make 
the carbon credits  investment.  On that basis HDIFAs role was instrumental. 
Firm A had introduced Mrs W to HDIFA. It was possible that Firm A had given advice 
about the carbon credits investment, although  from what Id seen it hadnt. The SAR 
hadnt disclosed that advice was given.  And unregulated advice may have been 
given earlier. But there  was no dispute that HDIFA had given advice. It thought it 
could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. But that was wrong. HDIFA needed 
to consider the proposed investment too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt lawfully  have 
given advice) had advised Mrs W, and in the strongest possible terms, to invest  in 
carbon credits,  my decision would have been  the same.  Mrs W had deferred benefits 
in a former employers  defined benefit  scheme. Firm A wasnt  competent  to advise on 
Ref: DRN24524184transferring those benefits. Firm A didnt  have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. 
Firm A had to refer the matter to HDIFA. 
HDIFA had the requisite permissions, expertise and responsibility to advise Mrs W 
properly on the overall transaction. Its role was pivotal, since the eventual  investment 
was wholly contingent on the transfer  taking place.  HDIFAs advice that Mrs W 
transfer to a SIPP so she could invest in a high risk, unregulated,  illiquid investment 
was unsuitable.  But for the transfer  Mrs W couldnt have invested as she did.
My starting point as to causation was that HDIFA advised Mrs W to transfer. So it is 
responsible for the losses shes suffered in transferring to the SIPP and investing in 
carbon credits.  That isnt wrong  in law or irrational but reflects  the facts of the case  
and HDIFAs pivotal  part in the matter. HDIFA could have  prevented  the investment. 
Instead it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice that Mrs W transfer. She was 
only able to invest in carbon credits because HDIFAs  unsuitable advice unlocked  
the money from her former employers pension scheme. The transfer  itself was 
unsuitable - and Meyado hadnt argued otherwise.
If Meyado considered  that others had some responsibility in the matter it was 
presumably open to Meyado to pursue those other parties.  I didnt think  Mrs W would 
object, if Meyado met her losses in full, to assigning her rights to Meyado. 
what would  Mrs W have done if HDIFA had given her suitable advice?
Wed seen that in other cases substantial incentive payments were  made  in return  for 
investing. Wed  asked Mrs W about that. Shed  told us that she didnt get any 
incentive payment.  We asked her to produce bank statements to evidence  that no 
payment was received but Mrs W had difficulties in obtaining them and hadnt been 
able to supply  copies. 
If she didnt get a payment, then issues about the extent to which she was motivated 
by the promise  of a tax free cash lump  sum didnt arise.
Even if she didnt get any payment, Mrs W might still have gone ahead  based on 
what she understood about  the investment and its prospects from other parties,  
including Firm A. 
But, regardless of what had gone  on before, Mrs W had to get regulated advice from 
a firm that had the necessary permissions to advise  on defined  benefit transfers. Firm 
A didnt.  HDIFA were the experts and had the requisite  skill, experience and 
regulatory permissions to advise on such transfers. I thought Mrs W wouldve placed 
significant weight  on what HDIFA said. 
If HDIFA had given  suitable advice HDIFA wouldve advised Mrs W against  
transferring from her former employers defined benefit scheme. HDIFA would also 
have made it clear why it was unable to advise Mrs W to transfer. HDIFA should 
have considered the investment and spelled out the risks. That would have 
countered any overly positive views expressed  by any other  party. If HDIFA had done 
that and told Mrs W it didnt  recommend the transfer, shed have thought  about 
whether what she was planning  was a good  idea after all. 
I didnt see that Mrs W would simply  have ignored such advice. In my view, HDIFAs 
advice would have  carried significant  weight and called into question what Mrs W 
may have been told by others  about the carbon credits investment and its potential. I 
couldnt see that Mrs W would  have chosen to go ahead anyway. 
If HDIFA had said Mrs W shouldnt go ahead and if shed have wanted to proceed 
anyway, HDIFA would  have  needed  to have  treated her as an insistent client. HDIFA 
may not have been willing  to act on that basis. And, even if it was, had the correct 
process been followed, that wouldve concentrated Mrs Ws mind  on whether it was 
really advisable to transfer and give up the security of a defined benefits arrangement 
Ref: DRN24524185in favour  of benefits  that were dependent on investment returns from a high risk, 
unregulated and speculative fund. Mrs Ws overall  aim was to increase her tax free 
cash and pension plus the lump sum death benefits and hopeful retire  early and in 
stages. I didnt think shed  have been  prepared  to lose her entire pension fund by 
investing in a highly speculative specialist  investment. 
It wasnt clear  if Mrs W received an incentive payment. On the one hand I didnt see 
any reason to doubt what shed  said. But she hadnt  been  able to produce bank 
statements which would have shown a payment or the absence of one. The time that 
had elapsed had caused difficulties. But that wasnt insurmountable. I said, unless 
Mrs W could produce  further evidence, I thought it fairest to assume she did get a 
payment of, say, 25% of the transfer  value  (£45,867.78). So £11,466.95  could be 
taken into account in calculating the redress which I set out. 
Meyados more recent comments
Meyado had referred to the case of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP. Meyado  did indicate 
that it wished  to make further comments about the case. Wed  allowed Meyado ample time 
to do so. But we have to be fair to both parties. I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to 
proceed in the absence  of any further  detailed submissions about the case and when I didnt 
see that it was relevant.
First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations,  whereas  Mrs Ws complaint is made  against
her independent financial adviser. Secondly,  the issue  in the court  case was the extent, if
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension. In the 
present case HDIFAs advice was in respect of the transfer of the value of Mrs Ws benefits  
in her former employers  defined benefits  scheme. I didnt see there  was anything in the 
Adams v Carey  judgement which was obviously relevant  to the present case.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs Ws representative didnt comment further. Meyado did. In summary:
Mrs Ws decision to open a SIPP and transfer  the value of her deferred pension 
bbenefits was made with assistance  and/or advice  from a number of entities, not just 
HDIFA. Id continued to ignore the other entities involvement, even though it was 
factually undeniable that Firm A (a regulated  entity) was materially involved. 
Mrs W had originally directed her complaint to Firm A. It issued a bare denial which 
wed taken at face value. But wed gone  to considerable lengths to advance the 
complaint against Meyado, even though it had also denied responsibility. 
That wasnt fair or reasonable but irrational. Our unwillingness  to look into the 
relationship between Mrs W and Firm A - which was materially  involved in advising 
Mrs W to invest in the illiquid investments at the heart of her complaint  and (once the 
SIPP was open) was to advise  on her planned  investments   meant  my decision 
was being made in the light of a deliberate  choice to exclude relevant matters. The 
requirement (under  the Financial  Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA))  to take 
into account all the circumstances  means  the actions of other entities with whom  
Mrs W interacted as part of her decision making cant  be excluded. 
Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities (regulated or otherwise and here 
Firm A was regulated) are involved, well disregard all but the one at which the 
complaint is explicitly  directed (whilst irrationally  accepting a denial of liability from 
the entity to which  the complaint was first directed)  and hold that firm accountable  for 
Ref: DRN24524186all failings, irrespective of where liability should properly lie. Entities are at the mercy 
of who a complainant  happens to name on the complaint form and when many 
complainants wont  have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities  of 
those with whom theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations under FSMA and 
demonstrably unjust  to one or more parties. 
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Firm As 
involvement has meant that key documents and evidence has been unavailable to 
Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been at best incomplete and Meyados ability to 
defend itself has been seriously  impaired. 
 It had led to a fundamental error  as to causation. My decision was based on the 
premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement,  the investments  and so Mrs Ws 
losses  wouldnt have occurred.  That oversimplifies the true position  and failed 
properly to take into account both Mrs Ws decision to invest and that it is the 
investments, and not the SIPP, which are the primary cause  of her losses.  The 
decision also disregards how Mrs W held herself out to HDIFA. 
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision.
Mrs W had already  decided to transfer  her existing pension before HDIFA was 
involved. Her determination  to transfer  cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And, 
following the transfer, Firm A was to advise on the investment. My decision was 
irrational and relied on speculation.
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising 
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all 
evidences irrationality  and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Id conceded  that Mrs W may have  received  an incentive payment. She  was in 
desperate need of those funds. It was unfounded speculation to dismiss the incentive 
payment to conclude  that Mrs W wouldnt have proceeded in any event.  Its irrational, 
when the weight of evidence overwhelmingly points to the conclusion Mrs W would 
have proceeded  with her chosen investment come what  may. 
HDIFA had no involvement  in the decision  to invest in carbon credits.  Its difficult,  if 
not impossible, to say HDIFA  had knowledge of, and should  take the blame for, an 
investment decision  made  after HDIFAs involvement ceased and when HDIFA did 
not and couldnt have  had any influence or control  over the ultimate  investments. 
It was conjecture to say, if HDIFA had advised  against transferring, Mrs W would 
have thought again. Its at odds with the evidence as to Mrs Ws determination  not to 
heed warnings  and ignores the fact that she ultimately invested in a product in which  
HDIFA had no involvement.  And Id disregarded  Mrs Ws assessment of her own 
investment experience  and attitude to risk. 
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt 
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer, which wasnt  
HDIFAs situation. I hadnt attempted to deal with that key distinction. 
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing 
should detract from its sympathy  for Mrs W. Shed suffered loss as a result  of 
investing (on the advice of others) in investments  which  had failed. But my decision 
failed properly to appreciate causation  and reliance issues.  Based  on the information 
wed considered   or chosen not to consider  the decision was unfair  and unjust in 
apportioning the entire responsibility for Mrs Ws losses  on Meyado and didnt meet 
our obligations  under FSMA. 
Ref: DRN24524187my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out
above, Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados
comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of 
others and in particular  Firm A. I dont agree we havent made sufficient enquiries about that. 
Or that Ive misunderstood or ignored the part played by Firm A such  that my decision cant  
properly be said to have  taken into account all the circumstances  of the case  as required by 
FSMA. 
The central point  is that Mrs W had deferred  benefits in a former employers final salary 
pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and referred  her to HDIFA. Theres  no 
dispute that HDIFA did advise Mrs W to transfer  to a SIPP. HDIFA set up the SIPP  and 
arranged the transfer. 
Ive acknowledged  its possible  that Firm A gave advice about the carbon credits investment. 
And (unregulated) advice may have  been given too. But theres no dispute  that HDIFA did 
give advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. But, as Ive 
explained, its understanding  was wrong:  HDIFA needed consider the proposed investment 
too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed  the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt lawfully  have given  
advice) had advised Mrs W, and in the strongest possible terms, to invest in carbon  credits,  
my decision  would have  been the same. Mrs W had deferred benefits in a former employers 
defined benefit  scheme.  Firm A wasnt competent to advise on transferring those benefits. 
Firm A didnt have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter  to 
HDIFA. 
Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Mrs Ws defined benefits scheme. HDIFAs role was pivotal, 
since the eventual  investment  was wholly contingent  on the transfer  taking place. HDIFAs 
advice that Mrs W should  transfer to a SIPP so that she could invest in a high risk, 
unregulated, illiquid investment was unsuitable.  But for the transfer  Mrs W couldnt have 
invested as she did. 
I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the 
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of 
where responsibility might properly  lie. Here, and as Meyado acknowledges, Mrs W initially 
complained to Firm A. And I agree that a complainant wont  always  understand the different 
roles and responsibilities  where more than one party  is involved.  But it was HDIFA who gave 
the advice to transfer. Its role was central. I dont think concentrating on whether the advice 
HDIFA gave was suitable is unfair or unjust. Rather, and as Ive said,  it reflects HDIFAs 
central and pivotal role in the matter. 
Meyado says our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement means that key documents  
and evidence hasnt  been made available. As Ive said above, Mrs Ws representative made 
a SAR which didnt  reveal that advice had been  given  by Firm A. And Mrs W hasnt 
Ref: DRN24524188produced any report  or suitability letter  from Firm A indicating that investment advice was 
given. 
Ive seen some emails between HDIFA and Firm A about progress of the transfer. From 
what Ive seen, the arrangement between HDIFA and Firm A was that Firm A did some  initial  
information gathering,  including  obtaining details from the ceding scheme. It seems there 
was initially some concern  that the transfer  value offered  by Mrs Ws former employers 
scheme might have been incorrect.  Firm A then passed on the schemes  reply  (that the 
transfer value  was correct) to HDIFA. It emailed its suitability report to Firm A for it to pass  
on to the agent  and discuss  with [Mrs W her] options, adding that if she rates death benefits 
highly and is willing to accept a higher attitude  to risk (which  [Mrs W had] to be because of 
the investment)  the transfer seems viable. 
Id assume that the report was for onward transmission  to the unregulated introducer  the 
agent referred to. I dont  think  the fact that Firm A may have acted as a conduit changes 
anything. And, given  that Firm A was getting a fee (£500) for the introduction, I can see it 
would have been interested in progress of the transfer and doing  what it could to help any 
transfer go smoothly. Meyado says, following the transfer, Firm A was to advise on the 
investment. But, as Ive made clear and regardless of anyone elses part in the matter,  
HDIFA should have  taken into account the investment when it was advising on the transfer. 
I dont see that Mrs W, before HDIFAs involvement,  had made  a firm or irrevocable decision  
to transfer which couldnt  have been influenced by HDIFA. I dont agree it wouldnt have 
made any difference if HDIFA  had advised Mrs W against transferring. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I thought shed  have placed weight on what  HDIFA had said.  And 
why, in practical terms, it wouldnt have been  straightforward for her to have just disregarded 
HDIFAs advice and proceeded anyway.  I maintain, if HDIFA had advised Mrs W against, 
shed have thought again.
Meyado says it was the investment and not the transfer that caused  Mrs Ws losses. But 
HDIFAs advice meant  Mrs W was able to access her pension  fund to make the unsuitable 
carbon credits investment.  She didnt have any other funds she couldve invested. And if 
HDIFA had said she shouldnt do it then Mrs W wouldve needed to have overcome other 
hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable advice made it easy for Mrs W to 
proceed and didnt give her any reason to question  whether what  she was planning was 
really advisable. I dont  think thats an oversimplification. As Ive said I think  it reflects 
HDIFAs central and pivotal role. 
Meyado asserts  that Mrs W was in desperate need of the incentive  payment which  Id said 
it was fair to assume shed received. But the pension review  questionnaire seems to indicate  
that she and her partner  were fairly  comfortable at the time. They were both working and in 
receipt of rental income too, with disposable  income of £1,335 a month. I dont think a finding 
that Mrs W wouldnt have proceeded if HDIFA had advised against and despite any incentive 
payment is irrational. 
Meyado says HDIFA cant be blamed for any investment decisions made after its 
involvement ceased and where HDIFA didnt have any influence  or control over the ultimate  
investments. But HDIFA knew from the outset  (see,  for example,  its referral process record) 
that the reason for the transfer was to invest in carbon credits.  
I note what Meyado says about Mrs Ws attitude  to risk. But I explained in my provisional  
decision why I didnt  think that was a credible  assessment. And that HDIFA should have 
Ref: DRN24524189explored with Mrs W if she really  wanted, and could  afford,  to take a very high level of risk 
with her only pension  provision.  
Meyado also says that the regulators alert deals  with the situation where an adviser takes 
on a client from an unregulated introducer,  whereas here the referral came from Firm A, a 
regulated business.  From  what Ive seen HDIFA knew that an unregulated introducer  was 
involved too. But in any event it remains the case that it wasnt  open to HDIFA just to advise 
on the transfer  it had to consider the proposed underlying investment too. The regulator 
issued a further alert on 28 April 2014. Again it didnt  follow  the introduction of new 
regulations but restated the existing position.  It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying 
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite 
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly 
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a 
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing 
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP. Even  
if the introduction  came  from a regulated firm, HDIFA had to consider  the proposed 
underlying investment too. HDIFA knew that was carbon credits.  It was unsuitable for Mrs W. 
On that basis the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable  too. 
All in all my views remain as previously indicated. I uphold the complaint. Meyado must 
redress Mrs W as set out in my provisional  decision and which  Ive repeated here. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs W as far as possible in the position shed be in now 
if HDIFA had given  her suitable  advice. I think  shed  have  retained her deferred benefits  in 
her former employers scheme. 
Ive seen a letter dated 8 June 2016 from the SIPP provider saying that the carbon  credits
investment had encountered serious trading difficulties and without any recognised market a
value couldnt  be established or a sale achieved. So the investment had to be regarded as
having no current value.  As the SIPP didnt hold any other investments and only a small
amount of cash the SIPP was to be regarded as terminated  and outstanding  fees written  off.
On that basis the SIPP  has a nil value. But as its been closed Mrs W wont  incur any future
SIPP fees so no award  for those needs to be made.
If Meyado considers  that Mrs W may receive some value from the carbon credits investment 
in the future, Meyado may require,  if Mrs W is redressed in full, that she provides an 
undertaking to pay Meyado any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the 
Ref: DRN245241810receipt from the pension  plan. Meyado  will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking. Similarly, if Meyado requires an assignment of rights from Mrs W, it will need  to 
meet the costs  involved in drawing up the agreement. Any undertaking and/or assignment  
should be drafted  in a clear and simple  format. 
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision  and using the most  recent financial assumptions published
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mrs Ws acceptance of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to for Mrs Ws
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mrs Ws SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or
allowance. If payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump  sum after making a notional  
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mrs W wouldnt  yet have taken a tax-free cash  sum from the employers
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%.  So making a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mrs W within 90 days of the date Meyado
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to
pay Mrs W this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the lump sum
incentive payment  Ive assumed Mrs W received. It should do this by applying a withdrawal
of £11,466.95 from the calculation on the date Mrs Ws carbon credits  investment was made
(23 February 2012). Its possible Mrs W could face an unauthorised payment charge. But 
whether that will be the case  and, if so, what amount Mrs W may have  to pay is uncertain.  If 
required, Meyado  should  give Mrs W an undertaking to meet any unauthorised payment 
charge that she may in the future  have  to pay.
Meyado should  also pay Mrs W £250 for the worry and upset this matter has caused her. 
Ref: DRN245241811my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd must redress Mrs W as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452418