K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service  and damage in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. Where a complaint is about a claim under  an 
insurance policy we treat it as a complaint against the insurance  company responsible  for 
dealing with that claim.
Mr A had a policy in the name of a home  assistance company. It covered plumbing and 
drainage. Aviva was the insurance  company responsible for dealing  with claims.
Where I refer to Aviva  I include  the home  assistance company, its engineers and others  
insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their actions.
At about the time he moved home  in about September 2018  Mr A had new engineered wood 
flooring downstairs.
In January 2019, he noticed a drop in pressure in his central  heating  system. He suspected 
a leaking pipe and he called for help under  the policy.
At first Aviva thought there was a leak under the floor downstairs. After Mr A signed  a form 
authorising it to do so, Aviva made  access through the flooring in the dining area and later in 
the connected lounge area. This caused damage  to floor coverings.
But Aviva discovered that someone had installed a bathroom basin with a hot water supply 
from the pipe serving the central heating  radiators. The drop in pressure in the heating circuit 
was due to the use of this hot tap. There was no leak.
Mr A complained that Aviva was responsible for poor service  and unnecessary  damage to 
his flooring.
In its final response letter  dated 23 May 2019, the home assistance  company didnt accept  
responsibility for the flooring.  But it acknowledged delay. It sent Mr A £500.00 compensation 
for inconvenience. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
investigation took longer than expected and the £500.00 compensation paid for 
inconvenience was a fair amount. Otherwise he didnt think  that the home assistance 
company had acted  incorrectly  or outside the policy terms. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Before they make  a decision  to cut open  somebody's floor, they need  to be 100  
sure they are making  the right decision,  which I believe they did not in this instance. 
They have acknowledged they got it wrong.
The waiver should not give them immunity, as he had no choice but to sign it.
Ref: DRN20045112The biggest and most significant damage  to the floor has been  in the dining area.  
This was the first cut made, and made  in a poor and unprofessional manner with a 
hammer and chisel, instead of a power  tool. 
 
The basis of that opening was the gurgling  sound as a result  of the smoke test they 
did. However, the fact that there wasn't  even a pipe right underneath where the 
opening was made points  to either  1) the poor execution of the test or 2) the reliability 
of the test.  They would have heard the same noise at many  other  places from under 
the floor.
The home assistance company acknowledged that the first cut was unnecessary 
damage they had caused. They did not use an acoustic instrument on this occasion 
which they did the second time. 
They have based their arguments  on "whether one hole or more, you would have  to 
change the floor. This cannot  and should not be allowed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the annual  premium was only £9.00. The policy  covered leaking pipes. It 
contained the following term:
Creating  access
Upon arrival  at your property, the engineer will locate the source of the incident. If 
direct access is not available, for instance  if there are floor tiles or floorboards  in the 
way, the engineer will need to create  access.  If you want our engineer to do this, you 
will be asked  to confirm it in writing  while the engineer is at your property. Unless  
stated in the What  is Covered? sub-sections of the Policy Coverage section, this 
policy does not provide  you with cover for any damage which may be caused to the 
property, its contents, fixtures, fittings,  floorings or sanitary ware  (unless  such  
damage is as a result of our engineers negligence). If you do not want  our engineer 
to create  access, we will be unable to progress your claim until you have arranged  for 
access to be made .
So the policy  didnt  cover damage  to flooring unless it was a result  of Avivas engineers 
negligence.
From a report  on Avivas file, I think the house  dated  from the late 1960s.
I dont think anyone could  have expected to find that someone had connected a hot tap to 
the radiator circuit. I accept that this was very poor installation.
I dont accept Mr As view that Aviva shouldve  been  100%  sure it would find a leak before 
cutting the floor.
From the notes on the business file, Im satisfied that Aviva used appropriate specialists and 
followed a logical course of investigating the suspected leak.  I find that its tests  gave it good 
Ref: DRN20045113reason to suspect  a leak near the radiator in the dining area.  And Mr A signed an authority 
for cutting  that area of floor.
There was no such leak. But Mr A hasnt  provided enough technical evidence to show  that 
Aviva should  have realised that fact without cutting  both the first or second areas of flooring.
Ive looked carefully  at the photographs. They show  in the dining area  cuts made by a 
hand saw through the floor covering and cuts by a hand chisel into the timber  floor below. 
The cuts in the lounge area are neater. 
Whilst they show damage,  I dont consider that any of the photographs show an 
unsatisfactory standard of work.  So I do not find that any of the damage was the result  of 
any negligence on the part of Avivas engineers.
Mr A has said Aviva  acknowledged unnecessary damage. And the final response  included 
the following:
 the number of holes  cut would not matter as the whole flooring would still need to 
be replaced
I consider that the home assistance company couldve  phrased that better. But Mr A hasnt 
shown me that Aviva  acknowledged unnecessary damage.
So  whilst I accept that Mr A has suffered damage   I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Aviva to repair or replace the flooring or to pay compensation for he cost of that.
Ive seen evidence  that there were multiple visits and Mr A became frustrated at having to 
deal with different  engineers sent by Aviva. But £500.00 is more I would have otherwise 
have found fair and reasonable for the inconvenience and distress  this caused him. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay any more  to Mr A or to do 
anything more in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2004511