K820x#14Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) made a mistake  with a direct debit which  
caused his a mortgage payment to be missed. 
Background
Mr A has a Home Purchase  Plan  a type of mortgage - with ARB.  Ill refer to it as a 
mortgage throughout this decision. 
He makes monthly payments to the mortgage from a bank account. He changed bank 
accounts and let ARB know. ARB should have made changes to the direct debit to reflect  
the new account but it didnt do this correctly. This resulted in Mr A missing one payment to 
his mortgage.  
ARB sent Mr A a number  of letters letting him know his mortgage was in arrears. Mr A 
complained to ARB and initially it said it hadnt  done anything wrong. Later, after Mr A spoke 
to it several more times,  ARB admitted it hadnt  set the direct  debit up correctly.  It accepted it 
was responsible for the late payment. It agreed  to waive a number of fees it had charged,  to 
amend Mr As credit file to reflect the true position and offered him £50 to say sorry.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this and brought this complaint to this service. Our investigator  
decided ARB had done enough  to resolve the issue and she didnt think  it needed to do 
more. Mr A accepted the majority of the investigators view on his complaint but still believed 
ARB should pay him more  compensation. Because of this, he asked an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering  payments  for compensation, its worth saying that my role is not to punish 
or fine a business.  Instead, Ill consider the impact  a businesss mistake has had on a 
consumer and the trouble and upset its caused  them. When doing this, Ill also need to take 
into account whether  a consumer has done what they can to mitigate the impact  of a 
businesss error.
In this case, Mr A had to make a number of calls to ARB to attempt to get its error resolved. 
He was promised  call backs  that didnt happen.  I can understand why he was frustrated by 
this and by ARBs initial suggestion  that he was responsible for the error.
ARB sent Mr A a number  of letters letting him know the payment had been  missed and 
asked him to get in contact to make  the payment over the phone. Because  ARB admitted  it 
made the error, Mr A thought it should  provide the money to pay the payment  instead of him. 
He therefore chose to ignore the letters  and didnt make good  the missed  payment. So his 
mortgage remained in arrears and his credit  file reflected this. Eventually,  Mr A got a letter  
threatening legal action.
Ref: DRN26545952I accept that this would  have  caused him trouble  and upset but I need to bear in mind  that, 
while ARB made the initial  error, it was Mr A who decided he wasnt going to make good the 
missed payment. And it was this decision which led to the ongoing problems with his credit  
file. Im satisfied if hed brought the payments up to date when he was first notified, the 
ongoing warning  letters and credit file issues would  have been resolved much  more quickly. 
In summary,  Im not persuaded Mr A did mitigate the impact of the businesss error and any 
award made  to him will need to reflect that.
ARB has now amended Mr As credit  file and waived a number of fees that were  charged.  
Mr A was happy with this approach. And he accepted the investigators  view that ARB didnt 
need to pay the missed  mortgage payment for him. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and, bearing  in mind  everything Ive said above,  I think  the 
£50 ARB has offered  Mr A is a fair and reasonable way to reflect  the impact of the error it 
made. So I wont be asking it to do any more.
Ill merely leave it to Mr A to let ARB know if he wishes to accept the offer if he hasnt done 
so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2654595