K821x#15Complaint
Miss Ks unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds actions when she contacted 
them about  her motor insurance  policy.
Background
In October  2020 I issued  my provisional  decision  setting out what had happened,  and what  I 
thought about that so far:
In 2014 Miss Ks car was hit by gravel  from a lorry. She contacted  Acromas  as she wanted 
to understand  if the claim was worth  pursuing. She says she was persuaded into making a 
claim. When Miss K was sent the paperwork for it, she saw Acromas had recorded the lorry 
as having a trailer, when  actually this wasnt correct. She says this affected her prospects  of 
making the claim so didnt  pursue  matters.
Later on, she says she received renewal documents  which showed a claim  so she phoned  
up, was told she hadnt made a claim, so didnt need to declare one. She then says she was 
sent new renewal  documents showing no claim had been made and was told all trace  of a 
claim would be removed  from her record due to the errors theyd made.
Because of this at the time Miss K understood she didnt need to report any claims  
because she hadnt made any. So, she was surprised when attempting to take out insurance 
with another provider in 2018  they said she had a claim. 
After Miss K complained about this, Acromas said sorry,  this was an error, and theyd 
remove the claim and pay her £25 compensation. But Miss K didnt hear anything for awhile  
apart from a four-week update letter  so she called Acromas. On this phone call where 
Miss K was asking for an update, she was told the case handler was out of the office  for 
personal reasons   and says she was told to show some  compassion. Miss K was also 
unhappy with the delay  in Acromas providing  her subject access  request  (SAR) she asked 
for  such  as call recordings  under the General Data  Protection  Regulations  (GDPR). 
Miss K was also told when speaking  to Acromas they couldnt remove the claim entirely, 
and this was an error.
In Acromas final response letter to Miss K they said theyd told her incorrectly  theyd remove 
the claim,  as they couldnt do that. And they said Miss K was aware of the incident, but as 
she may have thought  no claim  was made  she didnt  need to disclose this. Acromas said 
sorry for what  happened.
Because of these  issues she asked us to look into her complaint  complaining that shed  
been given incorrect  information, shed been sent renewal documents which showed no 
claim, and that shed  been spoken to inappropriately on the phone.  She was also unhappy 
with how long her SAR request had taken. 
One of our investigators  looked into things and felt Acromas had acted correctly in how 
theyd now recorded  her contact with them  not now as a claim, but as an incident and non-
fault only. They also said all the renewal documents showed a claim, and they couldnt  find 
any record of when  Miss K was told to show compassion. But they did think  the SAR request 
taking around six months was an unreasonably long amount of time, when its supposed to 
be completed in one month,  so awarded  £100  compensation.
Ref: DRN21121862Acromas accepted this outcome, but Miss K didnt. In summary  she said:
Errors were  made when she originally contacted them and its for this reason nothing 
should have been  registered  on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE)
She was told on several occasions, both in 2015, and in 2018, that any record of the 
claim / incident would be removed  from her record
Because of this, she didnt know what to declare to a new insurer,  and ended up 
taking out more expensive insurance  because of it
Its not clear from our investigators  assessment that the reason the claim didnt 
proceed in 2015 is because  of mistakes made by her insurer  in what  they recorded
And in January 2020, Miss K said that because of the issues shes  had, shed been 
prevented from insuring with a provider who offered legal  cover.
Because Miss K didnt  agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I should explain I cant consider the original claim event in 2014 because of the time thats  
passed, but Miss Ks focus  is on the impact of that event rather than the event itself.  So, 
based on my review of the complaint there  are currently three  issues  which  need  to be 
addressed.
Information recorded on CUE  and the impact of that
Whether the policy documents showed  a claim
The service Miss K has been  provided with
Information recorded on CUE   and the impact of that
Miss K has explained when she initially  called  about  the incident that happened in 2015, she 
was looking to understand if she should  make a claim or not. Ultimately, no claim was ever 
submitted, and due to mistakes Miss K was told nothing would be registered  on CUE.
But, this isnt correct.  Even if youre just notifying  your insurer about something thats 
happened, which Miss K was obliged to do, it would be recorded  on CUE. And once notified, 
this mean  would most likely Miss K would  always need to notify new insurers  about this 
(subject to the questions  she was asked) and would likely have some impact on her 
premiums.
In Miss Ks case, no claim was ever pursued,  so its right and correct  that this should be 
recorded on CUE as notification and incident only.
Ive seen evidence  to show this is whats been  recorded, so Im satisfied Acromas have 
acted correctly now. 
But I think theyve provided Miss K with poor service in relation to this point. Shes  said on 
several occasions she was told conflicting  information  I dont have all the records  shes  
mentioned  but based on what I do have I believe her.
Ref: DRN21121863In the evidence shown there are internal notes where Acromas are questioning why Miss K 
was told all record of the incident could be removed   when thats not the case.  This proves  
Miss K was given conflicting information on at least one occasion.
So, Im satisfied Acromas havent provided clear information to Miss K. Shes argued this 
has led to her incurring  more costs from another insurer  than she otherwise would have 
because they wouldnt refund any premium  once this issue had been sorted. While I 
understand Miss Ks frustration here, I cant say thats Acromas fault  as its the other  
insurer who wouldnt potentially amend their premium in light of any new information. And, in 
respect of the legal cover, if this was important to Miss K she could have arranged cover for 
this if she wished. But, I do accept  this has caused Miss K a lot of frustration and 
unhappiness which is worthy of compensation.
Whether the policy  documents showed  a claim
Miss K has said she was told any record of a claim would be removed   and to prove that 
she said shed been issued renewal documents which showed no claim. Miss K 
unfortunately doesnt have these documents anymore.
So, Ive looked  at all the renewal documents Acromas have provided us  and these all 
show a claim / incident on there.  So, I cant reasonably say Acromas  did remove  it from her 
documents. 
The service Miss K has been provided with
In addition to the poor service shes been  given around whether anything would be recorded 
or not on CUE, Miss K has argued  shes been spoken to inappropriately. Shes  also said 
Acromas have edited phone calls and took around six months to complete a SAR.
Miss K specifically told us shed been asked to show compassion on a phone  call in 
January 2019.  But when  our investigator  listened  to the call they couldnt hear this, and 
when Ive listened to it, I cant  hear this being  said either.
Miss K has said that shes not got the energy to find it now and argues that her being called 
a liar by Acromas is far worse. Miss K is referring to her being told she knew  shed made  a 
claim  when as far as she was concerned, she hadnt.
In addition to this, Acromas took six months  to provide all the information Miss K asked for. 
This caused her additional unnecessary distress which could have easily  been  avoided by 
complying with the relevant regulatory  guidelines  of one month. Acromas have explained this 
is because they only had one person doing these  requests  but I dont think that means 
Miss K hasnt been caused unnecessary distress. And while I cant  order  Acromas to change  
its procedures, it does  seem unusual for such a large organisation to only have one person  
responsible for this.
Theres a long history to this complaint, and I dont  have  all the evidence  to support what 
Miss K has said  but I do think Acromas have handled things badly from start to finish.
Our investigator previously awarded  £100 to recognise the distress caused  by the six-month  
delay in providing the SAR and didnt uphold any other aspects of Miss Ks complaint. But I 
dont think this fully reflects  the impact on Miss K for all of the issues  that have happened.
Ref: DRN21121864Shes been repeatedly told incorrect information, given poor service  when shes complained, 
and things have  taken longer than they should  have. Shes described this as a horrendous 
experience, and that its made her feel ill. I can see why, and Im sorry to hear of how this 
experience has made her feel. Taking  everything into account,  I think a total compensation 
amount of £350  is fairer to reflect the issues Miss K has experienced.
I have noted Miss Ks concerns  that Acromas may have edited  the call recordings  before 
sending them to her  but as this forms part of her SAR, she may wish to speak to the 
Information Commissioners Office to raise this point.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K replied  and provided the below information:
The reason  Acromas agreed to remove the claim initially was because they told the 
other insurer the wrong information  which Miss K accepted  as their apology.
She wanted to clarify in relation to her trying to get insurance and obtaining more 
costs. She said she insured with one provider (who Ill call L), but then after they 
became more expensive tried to insure  with another provider (who Ill call A) who 
included breakdown cover  with their insurance.  She says its this provider who told 
her she had a claim, and thats when the problems  started. She says two different 
providers were  telling her she had a claim,  so she renewed with L even though it was 
more expensive, because she couldnt declare a claim she understood she didnt 
have. She couldnt afford this expensive premium  with L, and breakdown cover.
She also wanted to clarify that legal  expenses cover with L didnt include litigation 
costs, but legal expenses cover  with A  who she wanted to insure with  did. She 
says if she could  have  insured with A, then the court  costs  she may have  incurred for 
claiming against the manufacturer of her car for a defect would have been  covered.
In relation to the SAR she says she spoke  to the ICO about  how long it took but they 
didnt seem too concerned. Because of this she wouldnt refer her concerns about 
potential editing  of phone calls to them.
And she said shed  not cashed  the £25 theyd paid her for this complaint. 
Acromas replied and said they accepted my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss K for the clarifications shes provided. Ive read everything  shes  sent 
us in response to my provision decision and reflected the key points. Having done so, this 
doesnt change  my view on what a fair outcome  is, and Ill explain why.
I understand what happened when  this issue started for Miss K in 2014  and as Ive said 
above Im focusing  on the impact of this rather than the event itself. At the time Miss K has 
said Acromas  agreed to remove any record of an incident or claim from her record.  I agree 
with Miss K  this is what they told her. But, as Ive mentioned above,  that isnt correct 
because once shes notified them they do need to record this information  on CUE. So, I think  
they were right to record it, but told her the wrong  information.
Ref: DRN21121865Ive noted her concerns about  trying  to insure  with L, and getting  breakdown  cover  as well as 
better legal expenses cover with A. But I remain of the same opinion  that I cant  hold 
Acromas responsible for L not refunding  part of her premium. And the sequence of events 
described to me do mean it was possible for her to have insured with A  even though she 
feels it wasnt possible. But, as I said above, I do accept Miss K was put in a difficult  position 
 and its for that reason  I think  compensation is due.
Ive noted Miss Ks comments that she never cashed the £25. If Miss K accepts my decision 
its for Acromas to demonstrate to Miss K theyve  paid her the full £350 compensation Im 
ordering.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold  this complaint, and order Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to 
pay Miss K total compensation of £350. Acromas  may remove any compensation already 
paid for this complaint if cashed by Miss K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December  2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112186