K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Financial & Legal  Insurance Company Ltd didnt provide him with an 
emergency hire vehicle which he specifically took out this insurance  for, following an 
accident in which his work van was deemed a total loss.  
Reference to Financial & Legal includes its claims handler BD Elite. 
background
Mr B has his van insurance through another provider. But when arranging his van insurance 
he also took out a motor  legal expenses and emergency hire vehicle insurance policy, 
underwritten by Financial  & Legal. 
On 30 June 2018 Mr B swerved to avoid an animal and his van ended up in a ditch in a 
farmers field. Mr B immediately made a claim under his motor insurance  policy.  His motor 
insurer provided a courtesy van for seven days as per those  policy terms. Mr B contacted  
Financial & Legal to claim for an emergency  hire vehicle on Monday 9 July 2018, through his 
broker, as he needed a replacement van for work.  Although  he was outside  of the seven day 
notification period, this was agreed  as a gesture  of goodwill. A replacement van was 
arranged for Wednesday, as Mr B felt the initial van arranged for Tuesday was inappropriate 
(it was too big). Mr B subsequently returned  the van a few days  later as he was able to buy 
himself a new one. 
Mr B complained about the delay in a van being provided and the hire company responded 
explaining it was unable to source  an appropriate van sooner  than it had and apologised. 
Not happy with that Mr B asked us to look into his complaint. When we asked  the business 
for its file, it said it hadnt considered the complaint as it believed  the previous dissatisfaction 
was in relation  to the van supplied. So it considered the matter. It didnt uphold the complaint 
as Mr B hadnt notified it of the claim in time,  but it nevertheless agreed to provide a van. It 
did, however, offer the equivalent of three days cost of a replacement  van at £70.20.  Mr B 
wasnt happy with that so we took the complaint forward. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the policy explained  there werent any 
time scales to provide  a replacement vehicle and he didnt think  three  days  was an 
unreasonable amount of time. Mr B doesnt agree.  He considers the name emergency 
indicates a vehicle will be provided straight away and this is what  he paid the extra premium 
for. He argues  he has lost three days work  as a result of not having a work van. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr B claimed under his emergency  hire vehicle policy that he bought in addition  to his motor  
insurance. Under Emergency Hire Vehicle the policy says:
If the Insured Vehicle is unavailable or unroadworthy following a motor  accident for 
this the Inured Persons is at fault, theft or attempted theft, fire or vandalism  We will 
arrange and pay for the cost of providing  You with a replacement vehicle as shown in 
the Certificate of Insurance, for the period during  which the Insured Vehicle is 
unavailable or unroadworthy, up to a maximum of 14 days. 
Ref: DRN26391732The policy further  explained it will not pay:
d Any claim  where the Insured Person fails to report the claim to BDElite  within 7 
days unless there are mitigating/exceptional circumstances, which prevented  the 
Insured Person from reporting the claim within 7 days. 
Mr B had the accident on 30 June 2018. But he didnt notify the insurer, via his broker,  of the 
accident until 9 July 2018, outside of the seven days required by the policy. However, I 
understand cover was agreed as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B believed this was due to 
notifying his broker  that his younger  brother had sadly passed away  in the interim period. But 
I understand this information wasnt actually passed  to the insurer at the time and so it 
wasnt aware of it when it agreed  to provide cover. But given what  had happened I think  its 
likely cover would have  been provided under the mitigating/exceptional circumstances, in 
any event. 
The insurer  arranged a vehicle  for Mr B. I do take his point about cover  being described as 
emergency but the reality is that insurers dont have a fleet of vehicles waiting for 
customers who might make a claim.  Rather they will have arrangements  with hire firms  to 
provide cars/vans  etc. as and when needed. Invariably that will mean  the provision of a 
replacement vehicle is dependent on availability (contrary to the investigators findings there 
is nothing in the policy about  how long it will take to provide a vehicle). 
Mr B is unhappy that it took three days  to arrange a suitable  vehicle.  But I dont think its 
reasonable for Mr B to expect to be provided  with a vehicle on the day the insurer was 
notified of the claim  that is very short notice. And I note he was offered  a van the following 
day. I understand this might have been  too big for his drive  or work location. But if Mr B 
needed to attend a job or work then I think he could have parked the van elsewhere and still 
been able to work. So Im satisfied Mr B was offered a vehicle,  as per the policy  terms, within 
a reasonable period of time. It was Mr Bs decision to decline the vehicle and ask for 
something smaller, which couldnt be provided until the following day due to availability. 
Overall Im satisfied the insurer  has acted  reasonably and so I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
For the sake of completeness I will respond to Mr Bs point about  financial loss. Even if I 
agreed the insurer should have done more, and I make clear  here that I dont, Im not 
persuaded he has shown he has suffered a financial loss. Although  he has provided  a copy 
quote for work  at on a different date and what he has earned over a period of time, he hasnt 
provided any persuasive evidence that he had worked booked  for those three  days, or if he 
had that he then had to cancel. So even if I found the insurer  should have provided a vehicle 
sooner, I wouldnt make  an award  for financial loss as Im not persuaded Mr B has provided  
persuasive evidence  he suffered  one. But I do only say this for the sake  of completeness as 
I have found the insurer  acted reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2639173