K821x#15complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2s complaint is about  the sale of both a public liability and professional  
indemnity insurance  policy. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 say that neither of those  policies covered them  for a personal injury claim 
made against their business and that Arthur J Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG)  shouldve  ensured 
they had cover for this.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 want AJG to cover  the costs  of the personal injury claim made against 
them.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in July 2019, part of which  is copied  below:
Mr B1 and Mr B2 took out two policies with AJG at different times; one was a public  liability  
policy and the other  a professional indemnity policy. The public liability  policy was taken out 
in 2009 whilst the professional indemnity policy  was taken out in 2012. Both were renewed  
annually.
After both policies  were in place, a claim was made against Mr B1 and Mr B2s business  by 
someone who had used one of the main services  they provide- running a diving school. The 
claim was for personal injury as a result  of the diving  training undertaken.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 made a claim  on their public liability  policy  to cover  the claim. The policy 
initially provided cover, but the underwriter  later took the view that the claim was excluded  
because the allegations made by the person claiming fell into one of their policy exclusions. 
In particular they relied on the exclusion that cover wasnt available for any liability  arising 
from any negligence, error or omission,  malpractice or mistake of a professional  nature, 
committed or alleged  to have been  committed by or on behalf of the Insured in the conduct 
of the Business.  Because of this the underwriter said Mr B1 and Mr B2 should claim on 
their professional indemnity policy since this type of cover was in place to insure against 
such risks.  
Mr B1 and Mr B2 did this but the underwriter of that policy also declined their claim.  This was 
because the professional indemnity insurance policy contained  a bodily injury exclusion so 
Death, bodily  injury and mental injury, mental  anguish or shock sustained by any person 
other than emotional  distress arising from libel or slander wasnt covered. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 say that AJG shouldve ensured they had cover for claims such  as the one 
made against them when the policies were sold and that their failure to do so has meant 
theyve had to cover considerable costs themselves at the risk of their business  becoming 
insolvent.
AJG say that the underwriter of the public liability policy was wrong to stop funding  Mr B1 
and Mr B2s claim  and to rely on the policy exclusion in the way that they did. They  also 
maintain that Mr B1 and Mr B2s professional indemnity policy  wasnt designed  to cover a 
claim such as the one brought against them and that such cover only extends to claims 
arising out of professional advice and not the activities the claimant was undertaking at the 
time.
Ref: DRN23536102Our investigator considered Mr B1 and Mr B2s complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. She said that as neither of the policies covered personal injury as a result  of 
negligence claims, they were unsuitable for Mr B1 and Mr B2s needs and circumstances. 
And had they been aware such claims werent  covered, Mr B1 and Mr B2 wouldve ensured 
they had a policy in place  to cover them for this eventuality. Because of this she thought AJG 
should step into the shoes  of Mr B1 and Mr B2s professional indemnity insurer  and consider 
the claim as if the exclusion wasnt in place.
AJG dont  agree  so the matter has been  passed  to me to decide. 
 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mr B1 and Mr 
B2s complaint should be upheld for the reasons set out below. When  deciding  this 
complaint, Ive thought about  the obligations on businesses to provide clear,  fair and not 
misleading information to consumers so as to allow them to make  their own decisions  about 
whether to purchase insurance. In sales  where  advice was provided, a business  will need  to 
ensure that the insurance theyre selling is suitable  for a consumers needs and 
circumstances, in addition  to providing  clear,  fair and not misleading  information.
Ive considered both policies  carefully  and the nature of those  types of insurance more 
widely. The professional indemnity insurance was intended to indemnify against any claim 
made during the period of insurance in respect of any civil liability including liability  for 
claimants costs and expenses arising out of the conduct of the business  within  the territorial 
limits. But that policy contained a bodily injury exclusion. 
The public liability insurance was designed  to cover  risks such  as employers liability, public 
and products liability, product recall, employment related accident  benefits, crisis 
containment and clean-up costs. In particular the public and products liability was designed 
to cover personal injury  for anyone whos not an employee but not where the claim arises 
out of alleged negligence,  error  or omission committed by the insured in the conduct of the 
business. 
Based on my reading of each of the policies Ive been  presented  with and the type of risks 
they insure I think that the professional indemnity insurance policy was the right kind of cover  
Mr B1 and Mr B2 needed to have in place to protect  them against claims from potential  
students for personal  injury, which arose out of negligence.  That is specific  to this case  and 
doesnt necessarily  apply in the case of all policies of this nature. I know  that AJG dont 
agree with this but Ill explain why I think this type of cover was appropriate.
Professional indemnity insurance  policies are designed to protect against claims made in 
respect of the professional services  they offer. These often amount to negligence claims. I 
appreciate that AJG consider this type of cover should only extend to professionals who give 
their professional advice  to customers who act upon it, and suffer  a loss as a result,  but I 
dont think thats  right. Professional indemnity insurance can be applicable to the type of 
profession its intended to cover. The nature of Mr B1 and Mr B2s business was a diving 
school. So I think its inherent that the type of professional risks they would be seeking  to 
cover would be bodily injury arising  out of allegations of negligence.
AJG say that Mr B1 and Mr B2 were only seeking  to cover consultancy  work when the policy  
was set up because  this is something  their business covers from time to time. I think  thats 
Ref: DRN23536103probably right based on the email correspondence  Ive seen from Mr B1 and Mr B2s 
employees to AJG. But I dont think this means AJG havent done anything  wrong. 
AJG say they thought the public liability cover would respond  if such a claim was made  
against Mr B1 and Mr B2s business.  But in my view the policy exclusion applicable wouldve 
quite clearly prevented  that. AJG feel that policy shouldve covered Mr B1 and Mr B2 for 
claims arising out of bodily injuring (including where  negligence  had been  alleged) so I think 
this wouldve  been reflected in either  in the advice they gave  or the way in which they offered 
the public  liability  policy in 2009.  I say so because as AJG say, Mr B1 and Mr B2 didnt seem 
to be looking for cover  for negligence claims when they bought the professional  indemnity 
insurance policy in 2012- most likely because they thought they were already insured  for 
this. In addition  AJG didnt  take the underwriter of the professional  indemnity insurer  up on 
their offer to remove the bodily exclusion applicable to that policy when it renewed in the 
year before the claim  was made. Had they done  so, Mr B1 and Mr B2 wouldve been  
covered under the professional indemnity insurance policy  for the claim made against them.
So whilst I dont dispute the submissions AJG have made in respect  of Mr B1 and Mr B2s 
intentions, I dont think that Mr B1 and Mr B2 had been given correct information  about the 
extent of the cover they already had in place when  taking out either the public or 
professional indemnity insurance. 
Because of what Ive said, I think its inherent- at least in the information Mr B1 and Mr B2 
wouldve been given,  that the public liability policy was mis-sold. Thats because Ive seen  
nothing to suggest the exclusion the underwriter of that policy has relied  on was drawn to Mr 
B1 and Mr B2s attention. Had AJG done so I think its unlikely Mr B1 and Mr B2 wouldve 
taken this policy and that they wouldve purchased  something that provided cover for them in 
circumstances where  a student was alleging negligence arising out of the diving  advice 
given. I think this is more  than likely because this was a key risk affecting Mr B1 and Mr B2s 
business so Im persuaded they wouldve been  looking to cover this. As Ive said above, I 
think AJG couldve  mitigated Mr B1 and Mr B2s exposure to claims by correcting the 
position when  the professional indemnity insurer offered to remove the exclusion relating to 
such claims at renewal  of that policy in the year immediately before the claim was made
Ive made  a finding that there were failings with the information given to Mr B1 and Mr B2 
during the sale of the public liability insurance. Because of this Ive not gone  on to address 
whether this was an advised sale - and whether AJG needed to ensure the policy and 
subsequent sale were suitable  for Mr B1 and Mr B2s needs  and circumstances-  because   
its not necessary  for me to do so. . 
Ive set out what I think is an award  of fair compensation below. When considering  this Ive 
taken account  the inconvenience Mr B1 and Mr B2 faced in dealing with the claim against 
them after their public  liability insurer stopped covering it and the fact that they had to defend  
those proceedings,  which  I understand eventually settled.
Fair compensation
AJG should:
Consider the claim made  against  Mr B1 and Mr B2 as if the professional  indemnity  
insurance policy had been in place  from 2009  without the bodily injury exclusion.
If the policy wouldve  responded  to such a claim, discharge Mr B1 and Mr B2s 
reasonable costs  incurred in defending  the claim against them  to conclusion.
Ref: DRN23536104Pay interest of 8% per year simple* on any cash payments made  to Mr B1 and Mr B2 in 
respect of any costs already discharged by them,  from the time they were  made,  until 
theyre reimbursed.
Remain in the shoes  of the professional indemnity insurer from 2009 until the date of any 
final decision made by this service (disallowing  the bodily  injury  exclusion)  in the event  
that any further claims are made against Mr B1 and Mr B2s business  of this nature. This 
might include  a claim for the costs already incurred by the public liability insurer,  should 
they wish to pursue  this.
Pay Mr B1 and Mr B2 £500 for the inconvenience caused  to them  in respect of the mis-
sale of the public liability insurance  policy.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 should note that the likely effect  of my findings above will mean they will 
need to arrange professional indemnity insurance cover for bodily injury  claims arising  out of 
negligence should they wish to insure this risk from the date of any final decision made on 
this issue- that is, if they havent already put such  insurance into place.
For the avoidance of doubt, I should  point out that our money awards  and directions 
(excluding sums for interest  and costs)  are subject to our current  statutory cap of £150,000 
so any sums  over that can only be non-binding  recommendations. If a complainant accepts 
an ombudsmans final decision,  it becomes  binding  on both parties,  which means a 
complainant cant  sue the respondent  over the same  subject matter  and that includes 
suing for anything not awarded in the decision and/or any balance  over £150,000.
* I understand that AJG is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr B1 and Mr B2 need to take any further action  will depend on 
their financial  circumstances. More  information about the tax position  can be found on our 
website.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Both parties  have responded.  Mr B1 and Mr B2 have confirmed they agree with my 
provisional findings. Theyve also said theyve  been  consulting their solicitors  about  the 
quantum of their claim  against  AJG and there are now discussions going on between the 
parties with a view to reaching agreement on the sums to be paid to them. Mr B1 and Mr B2 
have said that if agreement cant be reached, theyd like to make  the following  
representations in respect of the losses theyre  claiming for:
They want to be reassured that compensation should be paid to them by AJG as a result 
of the failings I set out within my provisional  decision.
Theyd like additional  criticism of AJGs  handling  of the professional  indemnity policy and 
for that complaint to be upheld. In particular, they point  to the fact that AJG didnt take 
that insurer up on their offer to remove the bodily  injury  exclusion. Because of this they 
want to be compensated  for these failings in addition to the compensation Ive set out, 
should that compensation not cover their losses. This is intended to provide a fall-back  if 
for any reason  the compensation recommended in respect of the public liability policy  
doesnt meet  their losses.
As soon  as they discovered they didnt have the required cover in place, Mr B1 and Mr 
B2 paid additional policy premiums  to ensure they had the cover they needed going 
Ref: DRN23536105forward. Theyd like the cost of these  premiums to be reflected in my award of 
compensation. 
They appreciate  that an Ombudsman  can only make non-binding decisions in respect  of 
compensation over the £150,000 limit, however their losses amount to around  £193,000. 
They are seeking to recover this from AJG.
Theyd also like me to consider the damage caused to their business and the expenses 
incurred by them as a result of AJGs  failings; 
There was substantial  upset,  inconvenience  and distraction  to Mr B1 and Mr B2 as a 
result of the proceedings brought against them, which disrupted their business. As a 
result, they hired a consultant to assist  them  with this. The consultant  had to be paid a 
fee which resulted  in lower profits than would otherwise  have been  earned had the 
insurance cover been in place. 
In addition, they had to sell their diving boat to raise funds to make payments which 
would otherwise have been settled by their insurers- including settlement  of the claim 
itself, repayment  of government benefits  paid to the third party when  she was unable  to 
work, as well as payment of her legal costs and their own. Following the sale of their 
boat, they had to hire workboats and purchase  moorings in order to allow  their business  
to continue to function, which ate into the profit of their business. 
The interest payable  on any compensation awards wont be enough to compensate  Mr 
B1 and Mr B2 for their losses in respect  of this. Because of this, theyd  like specific  
provision made  for these  losses and/or for the award to be increased to include them. 
AJG have  also responded. Initially they said theyd  previously made a without prejudice offer 
to Mr B1 and Mr B2 of £150,000. They asked whether the interest Id awarded  in my 
provisional decision would remain payable until the date of settlement or whether it would 
cease at the point of the offer. They also asked if interest was only payable on costs incurred 
by Mr B1 and Mr B2 within our award limits. Following this AJG made these submissions:
The public liability policy should have  accepted  this claim, and the stance  taken by the 
public liability insurer wasn't  foreseeable. 
There appears to have been  very little credence given to their loss adjusters 
professional view as to why this was the correct  policy rather than the professional 
indemnity policy.
That being said, they are being  asked to act as the professional indemnity insurer  - 
without the bodily injury exclusion, which Ive said the client would have taken  to protect 
their business. However, my decision remains silent with regards  to the additional  
premium that the removal of this exclusion wouldve have generated each year from the 
inception of the policy. 
If AJG are to stand  in the shoes  of the insurer, the equitable approach  is that the correct 
premium must be paid by the client in relation to the risk being insured - otherwise it 
receives a windfall profit. AJG wish to contact the PI underwriter to ascertain what  
premium would have  been charged  to Mr B1 and Mr B2s business to include cover for 
bodily injury. AJG thinks that this cost should  be deducted from any settlement  paid out 
to them.  
A without  prejudice offer of £150,000  was made  to Mr B1 and Mr B2 in April 2019. AJG 
want to know whether Mr B1 and Mr B2 agree  that they are required to pay interest  until 
any eventual date of settlement  or if AJG are only liable for interest  payments until the 
date their offer was made. By law theyre not expecting to be liable for interest accruing 
more than 21 days after their offer. 
Any interest is only payable on costs incurred by Mr B1 and Mr B2 within  the Services 
award cap of £150,000.
Ref: DRN23536106my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mr B1 and Mr B2s complaint should  be upheld in the same  way I set out within my 
provisional decision. 
Ive taken on board AJGs addition comments, but they dont change my view for the same 
reasons set out within my provisional decision. And whilst I appreciate  what AJGs loss 
adjuster has said about  the public liability policy and the claim made  against  Mr B1 and Mr 
B2, I dont agree that this was the correct policy that shouldve applied in this case. Thats  
because the exclusion  contained within it was clear  and cover was available under the 
professional indemnity insurance policy for an additional premium.
I cant comment on the offer made by AJG in respect of Mr B1 and Mr B2s claim-  including  
AJGs question about interest. Thats a matter for the parties.  I can only comment on my 
provisional award. And that award was AJG pays interest on any cash payments made by 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 in respect  of any costs already discharged by them,  from the time they 
were made, until the time that theyre reimbursed. But thats  only the basis  that their claim for 
such costs is met once AJG consider the claim. 
I appreciate what Mr B1 and Mr B2 have  said about their losses,  but I cant consider 
anything beyond the provisional award  Ive made simply  because I dont know  what the 
effect of that award will be. Thats because Ive directed  AJG to consider the claim as if the 
professional indemnity policy  had been  in place  from 2009 without the bodily  injury  
exclusion. In order to do that AJG will need to step in to the shoes  of that insurer  and look at 
the claim in the same  way the insurer would  have. I dont know what that will mean for Mr B1 
and Mr B2s claim  and Im not able to quantify it. 
I understand Mr B1 and Mr B2s point about wanting  AJG to be culpable  for further failings 
so that this will provide  them with a fall back, should the compensation theyre  claiming not 
meet their losses. But I think theyve misunderstood my provisional decision. The failings Ive 
identified all culminate in my finding that AJG did something wrong  and need  to do what  Ive 
directed to put things right. So the outcome of the decision wouldnt be different if Id 
identified an addition reason why AJG did something wrong  in relation to putting  in place 
insurance cover. More  importantly, my findings were that the professional indemnity 
insurance policy is the correct policy that shouldve applied in this case,  without the bodily 
injury exclusion. My award should  be considered under that and not the public liability  policy.  
I know Mr B1 and Mr B2 now want cover  for additional policy premiums theyve incurred 
when they discovered  they had no insurance for bodily injury  claims, but they havent  
provided any further details of the insurance  they purchased and what this covered. AJG 
have also asked to deduct the cost of any additional  premiums payable by Mr B1 and Mr B2 
for the removal of the bodily injury exclusion from any settlement sum.  I think that these two 
claims cancel  each  other out. Thats because its correct  that AJG should  pay the additional 
premiums Mr B1 and Mr B2 had to pay to ensure  they were covered for bodily injury claims 
from the time they discovered they werent  covered until the date of this decision.  But its 
also right that Mr B1 and Mr B2 needed  to pay enhanced premiums for such  cover from 
2009 until the date of this decision in order to benefit  from the award Ive made-  namely that 
AJG steps  into the shoes of the professional  indemnity insurer both in respect  of the present 
claim and any future claims relating to this period. Because  of this I make no award in 
respect of this issue. 
Ref: DRN23536107Ive also taken into account Mr B1 and Mr B2s representations in respect of the impact on 
their business. But I havent  considered these beyond the award of £500 for the 
inconvenience caused as a result  of the mis-sale  itself. Thats because AJG has not to date 
considered or settled  the claim. Until that happens  this service wont be able to consider that 
issue.  At  this stage my decision is simply that the business should  consider the claim in 
accordance with the professional indemnity insurance policys  terms, disallowing the bodily 
injury exclusion.
Both parties  have made representations about  our award limits. I should  make it clear that I 
consider that my award is a direction  and not a money  award. However, the effect  of this 
direction is that if a claim is paid a result, it will be subject to the £150,000 limit on a money 
award. So, if, having considered the claim in accordance with my direction, AJG decides  that 
it is appropriate to settle the claim,  the limit on a money award by an ombudsman will apply 
to the amount payable in settlement of this claim. This does not however include interest 
which is payable outside of our award  limits. 
For the avoidance of doubt, our money awards and directions are subject to our statutory 
cap of £150,000 (and £160,000 in cases brought  to us after 1 April 2019) so any sums  over 
that can only be non-binding recommendations. If a complainant accepts an ombudsmans 
final decision, it becomes  binding  on both parties,  which means its unlikely that the 
complainant would be able to go to court to ask for further compensation.  So Mr B1 and Mr 
B2 may want to consider  getting independent  legal advice before  accepting this final 
decision.  
fair compensation
 
AJG should:
Consider the claim made  against  Mr B1 and Mr B2 as if the professional  indemnity  
insurance policy had been in place  from 2009  without the bodily injury exclusion.
If the policy wouldve  responded  to such a claim, discharge Mr B1 and Mr B2s 
reasonable costs  incurred in defending  the claim against them  to conclusion.
Pay interest of 8% per year simple* on any cash payments made  to Mr B1 and Mr B2 in 
respect of any costs already discharged by them,  from the time they were  made,  until 
theyre reimbursed.
Remain in the shoes  of the professional indemnity insurer from 2009 until the date of any 
final decision made by this service (disallowing  the bodily  injury  exclusion)  in the event  
that any further claims are made against Mr B1 and Mr B2s business  of this nature. This 
might include  a claim for the costs already incurred by the public liability insurer,  should 
they wish to pursue  this.
Pay Mr B1 and Mr B2 £500 for the inconvenience caused  to them  in respect of the mis-
sale of the public liability insurance  policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and within my provisional decision dated 22 July 2019, I 
uphold Mr B1 and Mr B2s complaint against Arthur J. Gallagher  (UK) Ltd and direct it to 
comply with my award of fair compensation above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Ref: DRN23536108Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2353610