K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called Provident 
Personal Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma . Mr S says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Satsuma throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr S took out 6 instalment loans from Satsuma between  February  2016  
and January 2019. I note there  was a significant break in the borrowing between loans 5 and 
6. Ive enclosed  a summary  of Mr Ss borrowing with Satsuma, based on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
Most recently, one of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it 
should be upheld  in respect  of loan numbers 3, 4 and 5. We havent  had a response from 
Satsuma so Ive been  asked to make an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when  thinking  about Mr Ss 
complaint.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
S could  repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Satsuma was required to establish  
Ref: DRN20525582whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  a loan being affordable on this basis might  be an indication that Mr S could  
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Satsuma told us it carried out certain  affordability and credit checks before agreeing  to lend 
to Mr S including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness.  It says that this 
information showed that he would  be able to make the loan repayments  he was committing 
to. Ive thought  about this and also looked  at the overall pattern  of lending history  with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some  point, 
Satsuma should  have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans to Mr S. 
Taking account of what Ive said above about the length of the lending  relationship,  and 
applying it to the circumstances of loans  1 and 2, I dont think  its clear enough that Satsuma  
would have would have determined that loans 1 and 2 were  unaffordable for Mr S. I accept 
he may have already  been finding managing  his money quite difficult at this point, however 
theres no clear record that the type or depth  of credit checks carried out at that time would 
have exposed such issues.  So Im afraid  I dont agree  theres clear enough evidence  to say 
Satsuma knew its lending  was unsustainable  for loans  1 and 2. I therefore dont uphold  this 
part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 3, the situation was different and the types of 
checks Satsuma ought to have carried out should  have been  much more comprehensive. 
Thats because by that point there were some clear  indications that lending more  money  to 
Mr S was risky. Hed had, for example, various  problems with paying his previous Satsuma 
loan instalments on time. He was also seeking to borrow for loan 3, whilst loan 2 was still 
outstanding and this was adding £500  more to his overall Satsuma debt. This means his 
monthly repayments were  also increasing by quite a bit and Satsuma agreed to extend  his 
loan repayment  time from 26 weeks to 52, meaning  hed potentially be in debt much longer.
To safely lend at the point of loans 3 - 5 therefore,  much more detailed  financial checks were  
called for. But theres no evidence  that Satsuma altered its lending approach. Had it done  so 
however, more detailed checks  would have  revealed  Mr S was very frequently gambling and 
quite obviously having difficulty  managing  money. In short, the checks  would have revealed 
that lending him more  money was the wrong  thing to do. Our experience of short-term  
lending tells us that consumers who have  difficulty managing their money  in this way are 
less likely to be able to sustainably repay  a loan. With this information,  Satsuma ought not to 
have lent him the money for the loans 3, 4 and 5. I dont think it was responsible  to do so.
In addition to the above,  specifically for loan number 5, there was an additional and clear 
pattern of repeated lending evident  in my view. There was an obvious dependency on high-
interest, short-term lending evidenced  by this, Mr Ss fifth loan in 18 months. So Im also 
upholding Mr Ss complaint in respect of loan 5 as Satsuma repeatedly  lent to him in an 
unsustainable manner  because:
Ref: DRN20525583 
loan 5 had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr S borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
Finally, for loan number  6, as Ive said this was a new lending chain because there had 
been a significant gap in time. In accordance  with our normal  approach,  I revert to what  Ive 
said about the justification for less thorough checks in the early part of a lending  relationship.  
Given the income Mr S himself declared,  this loan probably looked affordable and so I dont 
uphold this part of his complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr S, Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 3, 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans  3 
and 4.
loan 5 meant any information recorded about  it is adverse. So all entries about loan 5 
should be completely removed  from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Mr S a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ss complaint and direct  Provident  Personal  Credit Limited to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Amount Taken Out Closed
1 £400.00 10/02/16 19/05/16
2 £500.00 28/05/16 01/11/16
3 £500.00 05/08/16 28/02/17
4 £300.00 07/03/17 30/09/17
Ref: DRN205255845 £500.00 03/08/17 30/04/18
Gap
6 £300.00 01/01/19 18/03/19
Ref: DRN2052558