K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains about her former mortgage  with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM). Shes  unhappy  with the interest  rate, with fees and charges 
added to the loan, and the way it was sold and managed.
background
Miss D took out her mortgage in 2004,  paying it back  in February  2015.  In July 2018  she 
complained about her mortgage to BM, later bringing the complaint to us.
Miss D complains that her mortgage was mis-sold and BM didnt properly assess  its 
affordability. This means  that she was sold an unaffordable mortgage,  which  led her into 
financial difficulty, and eventually to sell the property.
Miss D also complains that while she had the mortgage, the interest  rate she was charged 
didnt match cuts in the interest  rate set by the government. She thinks that BM might  have  
securitised the mortgage without her consent,  and thats why it couldnt change the interest 
rate. She asked  for information about that but none  was given.
Miss D experienced  financial difficulty during the life of the mortgage, and was at times in 
arrears. BM charged arrears fees and added them to the mortgage, which  Miss D says was 
unfair. And she says she was charged  an early  repayment  charge  when  she paid the 
mortgage back.
BM said it had already refunded arrears fees and charges. And it said her complaint was out 
of time.
Our investigator said that we could only consider interest charged and fees and charges and 
other matters from July 2012  onwards,  six years  before Miss D brought  the complaint to us. 
The rest of her complaint was made out of time.  And he didnt uphold the parts of the 
complaint that were  made  in time.  
Miss D didnt agree with that, and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In a 
separate decision, I said that we could  only consider  things that happened   including  
interest charged  since July 2012.  In this decision I will set out my view of the merits of that 
part of Miss Ds complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my jurisdiction decision that we couldnt look at any fees and charges applied  
before July 2012. BM has already refunded all the arrears fees and charges added to the 
mortgage balance  since that date, and I think that was fair. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Miss D was charged an early repayment charge when she 
repaid the mortgage.
Miss D initially  had a lifetime tracker rate, but replaced that with a fixed rate in 2007. The 
fixed rate came to an end in 2009, and the mortgage  then went  on to BMs standard  variable 
Ref: DRN26291302rate. While there was an early repayment charge payable during the fixed  rate period, the 
mortgage was no longer  subject to it after 2009.  Theres no mention of an early  repayment 
charge on the 2015 redemption statement, and Ive seen nothing  else to suggest  that one 
was charged.
As I say, Miss D initially  had a tracker rate, then a fixed rate, then BMs standard  variable 
rate from 2009 onwards.
The government doesnt set mortgage interest  rates, and hasnt set a general rate that 
mortgage companies should charge. The Bank of England has a base rate, but that is the 
rate for certain purposes in the wider  economy; it isnt a centrally set mortgage rate. 
Miss Ds mortgage was on BMs standard variable rate (SVR). The SVR doesnt track Bank 
of England base  rate, and isnt directly related to it. 
Ive not seen anything in the documents Miss D was given when taking out her fixed rate to 
suggest that it was linked to base rate, or anything else that might have led her to believe 
that was the case. 
By the time I can consider  the interest rate, from July 2012 onwards, Miss D had been on the 
SVR for three years. And during that time there had been no changes to the Bank of 
England base rate. Nor were there  any changes  from July 2012 until the mortgage was 
redeemed in 2015. So I cant say the SVR didnt reflect changes in base rate  when there  
werent any during  the period I can consider. 
Ive said SVR didnt  track  base rate, and wasnt directly  linked  to it. While the SVR was 
considerably higher  than base rate, it was comparable with the SVR rates charged by other 
similar lenders, and I dont think it was an unfair rate of itself.
From all the evidence Ive seen, the SVR operated in line with the mortgages terms and 
conditions during the period I can consider, and I dont think  it was unfair  for BM to charge 
Miss D the interest it did.
 
Ive not seen any evidence that Miss Ds mortgage  was unfairly managed,  or that she was 
treated unfairly   including  in relation to whether it was securitised. Im sorry to hear of her 
difficulties with the mortgage,  and that she felt forced  to sell the property as a result. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest that BM was the cause of her financial difficulty,  or that 
what it asked her to pay was unfair or outside the terms of the agreement. And so I dont 
think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2629130