K821x#15complaint
Mr G is complaining on behalf of a company,  S Ltd, that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund 
transactions he didnt  authorise.  
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
On 15 March 2017, at approximately  10:40am,  Mr G received a call from someone 
claiming to be from Lloyds fraud department.  They told him there had been 
suspicious activity on a number of accounts, including S Ltds  account. In particular,  
the account had been compromised from a different IP address.  
To verify  Mr G, they asked him to share  and change some of the accounts 
memorable information, as well as sharing a Challenge and Response code (a 
one-time passcode generated  using  a security device). They  told him the first one 
didnt work, so they asked him to share  two more codes. Mr G followed their 
instructions. 
Between 11.06am and 11:13am  that day, three  payments  were  made from S Ltds 
account  totalling  £248,899.97. I understand  that £79,842.49  has since  been 
recovered from receiving banks. So, the total loss for which  S Ltd seeks 
compensation is £169,057.48.
my findings 
An ombudsman has already considered our jurisdiction to consider this matter   and, on 
23 April 2020, determined  that weve the power to help. Neither side has submitted further 
arguments and/or evidence  on this matter or challenged the decision during the intervening  
nine months, so I see no reason to depart from what my fellow  ombudsman  decided. Ive 
therefore proceeded to investigate the merits of S Ltds complaint. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which  were in force  at the time), 
S Ltd isnt liable for payments that a director didnt authorise, unless they failed with 
gross negligence or intent  to comply with the terms of the account or keep its 
personalised security  details safe.
Lloyds hasnt disputed  that these transactions were  unauthorised. Thats  because
Mr G didnt complete the agreed  steps  to make the payments  (or even realise  they 
were being made at the time). Instead,  it seems the fraudster made  the payments 
using information  they convinced Mr G to share by falsely saying that S Ltds  account 
had been compromised and they needed  to verify him. 
I dont think Mr G failed with intent  to keep his details safe  he genuinely believed  
what he was doing was necessary to stop fraud  on the account. 
Im also not satisfied he failed with gross negligence. To convince  Mr G that the 
fraudster was from Lloyds, they gave him specific details  about  transactions made 
Ref: DRN20191102from S Ltds  account. This information  shouldve only been  known  to S Ltd and 
Lloyds, so I can see why he was persuaded. 
The fraudster also directed Mr G to his caller  ID. After checking with a colleague, 
Mr G was reassured that it was Lloyds genuine number. Lloyds say this wasnt a 
reliable means of identifying the call  and that he could  have suggested  ending  the 
call and calling the bank back on the number  hed sourced. 
Im mindful that this suggestion  comes  with the benefit of hindsight,  knowing the 
fraudster spoofed  Lloyds number. But Mr G was acting in the heat of the moment.  
And, bearing in mind  that hed been  given specific account information and that hed 
checked the number, I can see how he felt reassured he was talking with his trusted 
bank. More importantly, I dont think that by not doing more, hed failed with gross  
negligence  in other words,  his actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done. 
Ive gone on to consider how the fraudster  accessed S Ltds  online banking. Lloyds 
hasnt provided  us with online banking records that could help to piece this together. 
But Mr G recalls that he was persuaded to share his memorable  information   and 
from looking at Lloyds  website, it seems this can be used to reset an accounts 
password. So I think  its likely  thats how the fraudster gained  access.  Mr G also 
remembers sharing three Challenge  and Response codes  which we now 
understand wouldve allowed the fraudster  to set up the new payees and make  the 
payments. 
Importantly, Mr G shared this information believing  he was talking  with Lloyds 
genuine fraud team; that there was suspicious activity on S Ltds  account;  and this 
information was required to verify himself. Most  people arent experts in fraud, nor 
will they have come across this situation  genuinely before. So, they tend to follow the 
instructions of who they deem to be trusted professionals. Thats  heightened here, 
given Mr Gs natural concern with the serious  consequences for the account if he 
didnt take action. 
Ive also considered that it doesnt  sound implausible that someone might ask for this 
information  i.e. memorable information and Challenge and Response  codes  for 
verification purposes. And theres nothing obvious  in this request that shouldve  rung 
alarm bells with what the fraudster was actually doing  making payments. While 
Mr G may have  used his security device  in the past to generate codes and set up 
new payees, I wouldnt expect  him to know  an exhaustive list of what  it can be used  
for, particularly given their broad name, Challenge  and Response codes. 
In saying this, Ive considered Lloyds point that a large, professional business 
shouldnt share confidential information with a random caller. The Payment Service  
Regulations 2009 look at the reasonable person   so they dont account for 
subjective characteristics that might  make someone more or less susceptible to a 
scam. In any event, Ive made  the point that in Mr Gs eyes, this wasnt a random 
caller. And running a business doesnt make you expert in banking  and fraud 
prevention measures. We see many cases involving scams  as youd expect, 
theyre cleverly designed to fool as many victims  as possible,  including sophisticated 
professionals and business-people. 
Ref: DRN20191103On this basis, I dont think Mr G acted with a significant degree of carelessness such 
that he failed with gross negligence. So I conclude that S Ltd isnt liable for the 
transactions and Lloyds need  to put things right  by refunding  S Ltds losses  from 
these unauthorised transactions alongside  interest to compensate it for the time its 
been out of pocket.  This is subject to what Ive outlined below about our award limits. 
Lloyds ought  to have refunded this much  sooner   and thats meant  S Ltd has had to 
pursue a lengthy complaint. So I also award  £300, which  I think  fairly reflects  its non-
financial losses here, such as inconvenience.  
fair compensation 
Where I uphold  a complaint referred after 1 April 2019 about acts or omissions in 2017, I can 
award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up to £150,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I think are appropriate  (DISP Rule 3.7.4 of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook ). If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may make  a 
non-binding recommendation that the business pays the balance.
I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out above. I think  that fair compensation should be 
for Lloyds  to do as follows: 
Pay S Ltd the total of the unauthorised transactions  (£248,899.97), less any amount 
already returned  (which  I understand  is £79,842.49)  i.e. £169,057.48
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible)
Pay £300 compensation for inconvenience  (if not already paid)
decision and award
My decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay S Ltd:
£150,000;  plus
8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible)
recommendation 
I think fair compensation  is more than £150,000, so I recommend  that Lloyds Bank PLC also 
pays S Ltd the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that S Ltd can accept my decision and go to court  
to ask for the balance. S Ltd may want to get independent  legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask S Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Ref: DRN20191104Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2019110