K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained that Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a store 
card PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Ms W took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store  card whilst in a shop in 
September 1996..
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms W says she wasnt told that the policy was optional and that she would have declined it if 
she has known. Ive seen  a copy of Ms Ws application form for the store  card. It has a 
separate section  for PPI and within that section a person  needed to tick a box to request the 
policy. If someone didnt want the policy they could leave the box blank.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Ms Ws recollection of 
the sale has faded. Based on the available evidence, I think that FICL  made  Ms W aware  
that she had a choice about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Ms W probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so
Ms W says she was ill in 2000  and 2008  and didnt claim  on the policy which is proof that 
she was unaware  that it had been added to the account. But in fact Ms W did claim in 2008  
and the policy paid out £1,699.36 (which is more  than the total premiums she paid for the 
policy). It appears she didnt remember making this claim, so Im not surprised she doesnt 
remember taking out the policy in the first place,  which is a much less significant and less 
recent event.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Ms W, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met her needs.  
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Ms W wouldnt have  received any sick pay from her job. And she hasnt  mentioned having 
any savings that she could fall back on. Shes  said that her sister  would have  helped,  but 
other people  cant  always  be relied  on as their circumstances can change. Overall I think  Ms 
W had a need  for the policy and could have benefitted from it if shed been unable  to work 
due to illness or if shed  lost her job (and in fact she did benefit from it in 2008).
Ref: DRN20553702Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms W wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Ms W had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont  think that better  
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Ms W isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
Ms W may wish to consider making a retrospective  claim  to the insurer  in regard  to the 
period of illness she says she suffered in 2000.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2055370