K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr C says he didnt know PPI had been  added to his account and he never asked for 
it. Given how long ago the account was opened, there isnt much paperwork or 
evidence available.  But Lloyds has given  us an example of the type of credit card 
application form that was in use at the time. This has a separate  section  for PPI 
where Mr C would  have had to tick to say he wanted to take it out. The PPI wouldnt 
have been added if he hadnt  ticked this box. So I think its likely Lloyds made it clear 
that Mr C didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. 
Mr C says he didnt need  the PPI because  of the way his income was generated and 
because he had an income protection policy that would  have paid out if he wasnt 
able to work for more than 26 weeks. I accept Mr C is likely  to have continued to 
receive some income if he was unable to work. And while this would probably be 
enough to cover  some of his usual expenses, his income  is likely to be less than 
normal, which would mean a PPI policy that would at least cover  his credit card 
repayments, could  be useful. The PPI would also help him in the deferral period of 
his income protection policy.  
While  Mr C was self-employed  at the time,  there werent any limitations  or exclusions 
that would  make  it harder for him to make an unemployment claim than someone 
who was employed.  Hes also told us about an injury he suffered around  five years 
before the PPI was sold. But from what hes said, he hadnt been to see the doctor  
about this or anything  related to it in the 12 months before the policy  started. So he 
would have been able to claim  if he wasnt able to work  because of it.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive explained, I think  its likely he chose to take it out - so it 
looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have  been  useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN27253372But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2725337