K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability  and thoroughness of advice from Fisher Investments 
Europe Limited (Fisher) to continue contributing to his pension and not apply for Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA) Protection. Mr M says that because of this, he has incurred a significant  
financial loss for which  he should be compensated.
background
Ref: DRN23028602In January 2016, Fisher advised  Mr M during a telephone conversation that after reviewing 
his circumstances  and objectives, he should forego  any LTA protection  as the benefits of this 
would be outweighed by his employer  pension contributions. Mr M had recently  started a 
new job and his employer  would not have  offered  personal compensation in exchange for 
the pension contributions.  Mr Ms intended retirement age was recorded as 60. 
Around June 2016, Mr M contacted Fisher investments as he was considering drawing an 
income from the age of 55. He was no longer  enjoying his job and so wanted  to take some 
time off. He also wanted to pay off his mortgage.  
Mr M complained to Fisher that the advice he had been given in relation to LTA Protection 
meant he would  be subject to substantial LTA charges if he began  drawing his pension. 
He was also dissatisfied that the advice had been provided over the telephone  and not 
documented. Fisher  said it had advised him to forgo  protection based on his circumstances 
and objectives  at the time which were that he would not look to draw benefits  until the age of 
60. 
It noted that a further review had been  conducted  in February 2017  of Mr Ms overall 
circumstances, and it was confirmed that he was not looking to retire until the age of 60, and 
would consider going part time from around age 58-60. 
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. He 
considered the advice  had been  suitable  and that Fisher could not have foreseen the 
changes in Mr Ms circumstances or objectives.  He noted that there was no requirement for 
Fisher to have  documented the advice  it had provided, however this was something that Mr 
M could have requested.
The adjudicator said that the advice was consistent  with Mr Ms goals which had been 
discussed and confirmed with him on several occasions.  Mr Ms complaint was based on 
hindsight following a change  in his objectives.  
Mr M did not agree. He said that the advice should  have been documented so that he could 
have considered it before going ahead, that a full analysis of his DB scheme  should  have 
been undertaken by Fisher and that his fund values should have been monitored by Fisher 
between January and June 2016.
Mr M added that due to Fishers unsuitable advice  and its failure  to conduct appropriate due 
diligence, he has lost financial flexibility and will be subject to a tax liability  that could have 
been avoided  with suitable  advice.  
As agreement was not reached, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Fisher  advised initially advised Mr M not to apply for LTA Protection in 
2016. Had he done so and HMRC  had approved this, he and his then employer would have 
been precluded from making further  contributions to his pension plan. 
Ref: DRN23028603As his then employer would not substitute its pension  contributions  to Mr Ms pension plan, 
for example by way of salary enhancement, then Mr M would have lost the residual value of 
his employers pension  contributions.  
In other  words, by foregoing LTA Protection, Mr M would have benefitted, had he retired  as 
originally envisaged  at age 60, from his employers continuing  contributions  on a net basis,  
even after any excess tax charge, likely to be 55%, levied  by HMRC. 
So I have  concluded  Fishers advice in this respect  was suitable for Mr Ms circumstances at 
the time.  From what was known at the time of Mr Ms circumstances  and objectives,  not 
applying for protection fell within the spectrum of what, in my view,  was suitable  advice.
It is unfortunate that Mr Ms circumstances later changed but that was more than 2 years 
after Fisher  first advised him. I have not seen  evidence to persuade me that Fisher ought  to 
have tailored its advice  in anticipation of Mr Ms later changed circumstances.
 
I note that a telephone  call record of 3 August 2017 said:
.Mr M said he had spoken with his IC 5-6 weeks ago and mentioned an upcoming change  
in his circumstances. He turns 55 next year and doesnt like his job. He is considering  
leaving his job and embarking on a new path  one not in the same  industry.  On top of that, 
while he wont retire fully, he may only seek to work part time and may take a year off.
The same call note went on to record that:
I asked how his experience with FI has been  over these  first 18 months. He said it had been  
very positive. He feels the relationship  and advice he receives  from (FI adviser)  is excellent.  
When I asked for areas we could improve on, he said he could not think of a single one. On 
a scale of 1-10 he gave  FI 8-9.
I appreciate these notes  were made  by Fisher  and that Mr M may dispute  their veracity.  But 
Mr M has not provided me with evidence to challenge their central points, namely that Mr M 
only told Fisher of his changed circumstances in mid-2017 and that, at least  up to that point, 
he had no reason to complain about  the service and advice he had received from Fisher. 
The email  exchanges  between Mr M and Fisher, which  I have seen, also give no indication 
that Mr M was dissatisfied. I therefore agree with our adjudicator  that based on the evidence 
provided, Mr Ms complaint appears to be based on hindsight following his changed 
circumstances, specifically his now intention to retire early and crystallise pension  benefits.
It would not be fair or reasonable to hold Fisher to account for this. It advised  Mr M based on 
his circumstances  at the time. Mr M cannot fairly  or reasonably say that because  his 
circumstances later changed, Fisher should  be held to account  for its original advice not 
being suitable for these changed  circumstances.
I also note that in his response to our adjudicator Mr M said:
As a lay person engaging in an extremely complex  issue with my key financial relationship 
with significant  financial sums at stake, I can't accept that this advice wasn't formally 
documented so that I could digest and duly consider  it.
Ref: DRN23028604In respect of the advice not being documented, there is no specific  requirement, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, for Fisher to have documented advice about  LTA protection.
 
If Mr M was unhappy with the manner in which advice was being given to him, then Mr M 
was free to ask that the advice be documented. Mr M did not do this. In the absence  of 
evidence to show otherwise,  I assume this is because at the time he was satisfied with 
Fishers advice and the manner in which it was given to him. 
I have also noted  that although Mr M says he is a lay person, he does hold financial 
qualifications as detailed on the Fact Find. 
Of course,  this does not make him a pension expert and my decision is not influenced by 
this, except that in my view, it is not unreasonable to conclude  Mr M would have been in a 
position to challenge Fisher about any matters he did not understand or if he was unhappy 
with its advice process.
That aside though, I have not seen evidence from Mr M to persuade  me that had the advice 
been documented, Mr M would have taken different decisions at the time.
In respect of due diligence, Mr M said in his response to our adjudicator that:
Given the magnitude  of the sums involved in my DB schemes  and the size/anticipated 
growth of my total pension funds in comparison to the imminent  standard  LTA reduction in 
April 2016, I would have  expected Fl to have undertaken a thorough and diligent process   of 
understanding and valuing my other  pension schemes  especially as I had recently received 
from them such a comprehensive report  for the DC fund transfer  to Fl. I do not consider 
them asking  for  copies of latest  DB pension  statements (and suchlike) ahead of the 12/1/16 
meeting as adequate due diligence and fact finding  on their part.
But if, as Mr M acknowledges  above,  his expectation at the time (rather than with the benefit  
of hindsight) was that Fisher should  have  analysed his DB schemes then I am surprised that 
at the time he did not challenge Fisher  on the basis that it had failed to meet  his expectation.
I have also taken into account that the Suitability Report of December 2015 made clear that 
the only pension  plans it had reviewed excluded  Mr Ms DB benefits.  I therefore do not agree 
with Mr Ms assertion now that Fisher ought to have reviewed and analysed his DB benefits. 
It was made  clear at the time that Fisher had not undertaken  such a review  or analysis.
I am also not persuaded that had Fisher monitored  Mr Ms funds between January and June 
2016, Mr M would  have acted differently. His circumstances throughout that period were 
unchanged from those  recorded in the Fact Find of December 2015.  
So I cannot see why Mr M would have taken different decisions or why Fishers  advice might 
or should have  changed.  Fishers  advice  not to seek protection  would have still been suitable  
and for the same  reasons  I have set out above.
However, I agree with Mr M that following his change in circumstances  he has lost a degree 
of financial flexibility as a result of decisions taken in early 2015. I understand why he is 
unhappy about this. 
But at the time of advice, Mr M did not foresee that his then prevailing circumstances, as 
confirmed to Fisher,  would or might,  change  at a later date. That being the case, I cannot 
Ref: DRN23028605agree with Mr M that Fisher ought  to have advised him at the time such that its advice would 
be suitable in unforeseeable  and non-defined future  circumstances.   
So for the reasons I have set out above, Mr Ms complaint is not one for which I can fairly or 
reasonably hold Fisher to account. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020                                      .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2302860