K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt agreed to extend the term of 
their interest only mortgage, or convert  it to a lifetime mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out their interest  only mortgage with Barclays some years  ago. The term 
expired in 2009, when a five year extension was granted. When  the term expired again,  in 
2014, Barclays was no longer willing to extend it.
Mr and Mrs W were in discussions with Barclays for some time  the shape of those 
discussions has led to previous complaints to the Financial  Ombudsman Service  before 
Barclays reviewed their situation at a meeting  of its senior panel in 2017.  At that time, 
Mr and Mrs W wanted Barclays to allow them to stay in their property for the rest of Mr Ws 
life, at which time his life insurance would repay the balance. They said they both had 
significant health difficulties and were  in their seventies, so didnt want to consider moving 
house.
Barclays said it didnt offer lifetime mortgages. It wanted to send a field agent  to visit 
Mr and Mrs W to find out more about their health  and financial  situation  by this time, their 
claim for support for mortgage  interest  (SMI) benefit had stopped, and they were  paying less 
than the monthly  interest. Mr and Mrs W didnt  think that was necessary and complained.
Mr and Mrs W now say they understand Barclays doesnt offer lifetime mortgages. But they 
want a long term extension  say ten or fifteen  years  on interest only terms. Theyre  still 
relying on Mr Ws life insurance to repay the capital. They  dont want  to move house,  
because theyre worried  they wont be able to afford  a property that would suit them  (with a 
garden, and suitable for their dog) in their area. And they dont want  to move  away, and dont 
want to consider equity  release as that would erode the equity in their property. They also 
find dealing  with Barclays difficult   especially  in view of Mr Ws health conditions   and want  
it to nominate a single  point of contact so they dont have to keep explaining things to new 
people.
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly. The term had expired five years  ago and 
rather than taking possession proceedings it had tried to find a way forward  but it was 
entitled to have the mortgage repaid. And she didnt  think a long term extension  would be in 
Mr and Mrs Ws best interests either.  So Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to review 
their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr and Mrs Ws situation,  including the medical and financial 
information Mr W has provided.  I can see theyre not in an easy  position, and they have my 
sympathy for that.
The difficulty  is that they did borrow this mortgage, and when doing so they agreed  the 
capital would be repaid at the end of the term. That was five years ago now,  and it still hasnt 
happened.
Ref: DRN29076452I dont think that this is a case  where its impossible for Mr and Mrs W to repay their 
mortgage. Their  current loan balance is around  £150,000, with a loan to value of  very 
roughly  50%. If they were to sell the property and downsize they would have some equity 
left. Mr W says that as Mrs W is keen  on gardening and they have a dog, they wouldnt want 
to do that and move, for example, to a one bedroom flat. I can understand that  but it is an 
option thats open to them, if not one they would prefer.
Mr W says that he doesnt want to consider equity release, because he doesnt want the 
equity in the property to be eroded.  I dont know if they would be able to borrow enough  this 
way to repay the mortgage  thats  something they would need  to take financial advice about 
 but if it is, again  this is a route  that would be possible, but not what Mr and Mrs W would 
prefer. 
And there are a range  of interest only mortgages on the market  aimed  at older  borrowers in 
their position  which  arent  roll-up interest lifetime mortgages and so wouldnt erode the equity 
 while  affordability  might be a problem,  taking a smaller mortgage might help with the 
options available if they were to downsize.  Again, thats something they would need to take 
independent financial  advice about  ideally from an adviser  specialising in these products.
Unfortunately, there are no ideal outcomes here.  The mortgage  capital was borrowed, and 
does have to be repaid  at some point. Barclays says it doesnt consider  interest  only term 
extensions as a matter of policy.  I dont think its enough to say that; it should fairly consider  
the circumstances of each individual case. 
But it would only be right to extend  Mr and Mrs Ws interest only mortgage  where  doing  so 
would be fair in all the circumstances  taking into account whats  in their best interests.
Mr and Mrs W arent meeting their contractual monthly payments  they havent been  since  
their SMI claim ended over two years  ago. Theyre paying around  £220 per month, but the 
interest is around £300 per month. So their mortgage balance  is going up, not down.  The 
income and expenditure information they gave to Barclays  shows  that they can just about 
afford to make  the full payments  but theres  very little slack. 
If their monthly payments were to go up  because of future interest  rate rises, or because  
there came a time when there was only one pension income, not two  I think its likely they 
would struggle to make  the interest payments. SMI now acts as a loan, not a benefit, so if 
Mr and Mrs W were to resume their claim for that, it would erode the equity in their property.
If the mortgage term were  extended, theres a real risk Mr and Mrs W could find themselves  
in a worse position  in the future than they are now. Mr W has referred to his life insurance as 
a means of repaying   but it could  be many years before Mr W passes away,  and its 
possible that Mrs W could pre-decease  him. 
If the term were to be extended,  theres  a risk property prices  could fall  either more  
generally, or if Mr and Mrs W struggle to maintain their property as they get older.  Interest 
rates could rise, or Mr and Mrs Ws income  not keep pace with their expenses,  meaning they 
could struggle to afford the repayments  which would increase the mortgage balance. That 
could make it more difficult for Mr and Mrs W to sell with enough equity to downsize, or raise  
a large enough  equity  release loan,  at the end of any extended  term. And they would have 
paid much more interest to Barclays in the meantime without reducing the capital  and 
would be older  and potentially in a poorer state of health than they are now in.
Ref: DRN29076453Mr and Mrs W are in an unenviable position. To repay their mortgage  now involves either 
selling their home or downsizing   which they dont want to do; or it involves taking out 
alternative borrowing   which  they also dont want to do. But in my view the alternatives risk 
leaving them  in a worse  position in the future  than theyre in now.  
None of this is certain. But its a case  of balancing the risks.  And Im not persuaded that 
delaying matters would be in their best interests   much as Mr and Mrs W would wish it 
otherwise  and so I dont think I can fairly  ask Barclays to extend the term of their mortgage.
However, that doesnt mean that Barclays should move to repossession  action as soon as 
this complaint has closed.  While it may be five years since the term ended,  it still has an 
obligation to treat Mr and Mrs W fairly. Theyve  been  focused for the last few years on a term 
extension. Ive explained why I dont think that would  be in their best interests  but also that 
I think they have  other options. Moving forward, I would expect Mr and Mrs W to explore 
those other  options,  and to keep Barclays informed of their progress. And, if they do so, I 
would expect Barclays to allow  them  reasonable  time to explore and implement an 
alternative plan. 
Finally, I note that Barclays doesnt  think it can assign  a single named individual  to deal with 
Mr and Mrs W. And I understand the practical problems with doing that  though they arent 
necessarily a reason  not to do so in the right circumstances.  
Our investigator has now sent some medical evidence  to Barclays.  And I do think  its clear  
Mr and Mrs W are vulnerable customers.  So I do think that, moving  forwards,  Barclays 
should reconsider how it deals with them. And if its still not possible to assign a dedicated 
contact, it could ensure  theyre dealt with by the relevant specialist team.  Its in everyones 
interest to ensure  this mortgage is brought  to as orderly an end as possible  and Barclays  
needs to play its part in ensuring  the open  dialogue I think is necessary. 
Ref: DRN29076454my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2907645