K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the service hes received  from Experian Limited (EL) in relation to his 
credit file.
background
Mr L says EL had inaccurate information  on his credit  file for many months. He says this 
detrimentally impacted  his credit score  and led to applications for credit being  rejected. And 
he says he was unable  to access his account  for a substantial  period of time.
So, Mr L says he wants EL to correct  the mistakes in his credit report, remove any failed 
credit applications  that may be the result  of its mistakes and pay him compensation for the 
time hes spent on this matter over a period of more than a year.
EL says incorrect electoral roll information was previously showing on Mr Ls account due to 
a technical issue  that was resolved in 2017. It says this information had no impact  on his 
credit report  or credit score and it shouldnt have affected any lenders  decisions  in relation 
to his applications. And it says its already given Mr L £25 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed been caused by this matter.
EL also says Mr L couldnt  access his account as he failed its authentication  checks to have 
access to a free account. It says it cant bypass these checks or disclose the reason why 
they failed. And it says Mr L can re-apply for a free account if he wishes.
Our investigator thought Mr Ls complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said its a relief that the incorrect 
details have been removed, but he says he began trying to get them  removed in 2015. And 
he says he doesnt  feel the compensation ELs offered him fully reflects the inconvenience 
hes experienced.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
I acknowledge Mr L believes he was declined credit  by lenders due to inaccurate  electoral 
roll information on his credit file. But ELs told us this information wasnt visible  to any 
lenders hed applied to and it had no impact on his credit report or score. I also see EL says 
there are no full credit applications showing on Mr Ls credit report at the relevant time  only 
quotation searches.  And it says if he was declined  credit  this will have been due to another 
reason.
In addition, I see ELs pointed out that at the time of this issue Mr L had a County Court 
Judgement showing  on his credit report.  And its said as this is considered  detrimental 
information it may have  impacted his credit  applications at the time, rather than the incorrect  
electoral roll information.
Ref: DRN27569172I havent seen  any information confirming any lender declined  Mr L credit as a result of the 
matter hes complained about. And, taking everything Ive seen into account,  I cant conclude 
its most  likely this happened. I see EL paid Mr L £25 compensation and reimbursed a £2 
search fee hed paid to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused.  I think  this was 
reasonable, in the circumstances.
I see ELs explained  that Mr Ls inability to access his free account was due to his failure to 
pass the required authentication checks.  And I note its told him he can re-apply for a free 
account if he wishes. I think this is also reasonable.
So, for theses reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ls complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against  Experian Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2756917