K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI). They 
believed they had a policy with it but when they made a claim it said there was no cover.
background
Mr and Mrs B had roofing  work done  and their contractor provided a warranty  for that work. 
GPI was the underwriter  for that cover. But when Mr and Mrs B contacted it, after having  
found a problem with the roof and that the contractor was no longer trading, it said it hadnt 
issued a warranty in respect of their roofing installation. GPI, therefore, declined  their claim. 
When Mr and Mrs B complained to this service our investigator didnt think  their complaint 
should be upheld.  He explained  that there  was no evidence of a warranty for Mr and Mrs B 
or that GPI had failed  them in some  way. Mr and Mrs B felt this was unfair as they didnt 
accept it hadnt  been shown that GPI had reasonably proven there  was no warranty.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this will cause Mr and Mrs B, I dont intend  to uphold their complaint.  
When I assess a complaint, in order to fairly  reach a decision that requires the insurer  to 
take some  action, I must  first be satisfied that the insurer has done something wrong. Im not 
persuaded that is most likely the situation here.
GPI has confirmed that the policy document that Mr and Mr B hold didnt come from its 
office. Its shown that a different layout  was used at the time Mr and Mrs Bs certificate  was 
meant to have been issued. Whilst the wording  may be similar there are some  notable 
differences, for example;  more definitions, two stamps  at the top instead  of one and a 
warning at the bottom of page  1 to carefully  read the exceptions  and conditions  on page  two. 
Whilst this version appears  to date to 2008, GPIs  explained that this was the version still in 
issue in 2011.  Versions of policy wordings being used over consecutive  years isnt unusual.
GPI has also shown that the policy reference  number on Mr and Mrs Bs certificate relates  to 
another policy. As the policies are in place for a number of years  it would  be unusual in the 
extreme for reference numbers to be duplicated.  GPI cant  reasonably be expected to show  
evidence of what isnt there. On balance, the presence of cover  for that reference number for 
a different installation satisfies  me that cover  for Mr and Mrs B, as evidenced by the 
certificate they hold,  likely wasnt set up.
I havent seen  anything that suggests  that GPI knew fraudulent certificates  were  being 
issued and did nothing  to stop it. Or that the contractor issued what he thought  was a 
genuine certificate but that some kind of administration  error by GPI meant it wasnt set up 
and/or incorrect reference numbers were  used, meaning the cover,  over time, has become 
untraceable. I realise that Mr and Mrs B are unlikely to hold any evidence that would 
reasonably show  any of this. But as it stands  I have no evidence that GPI did anything  wrong  
here. It would appear that it has played  no role in this matter but has simply  been  used 
without its knowledge  by the contractor  to commit a possible fraud against Mr and Mrs B..
Ref: DRN29275052On balance Im satisfied that GPIs  decline of Mr and Mrs Bs claim, on the basis that no 
cover for their installation  was in place, was fair and reasonable.  Im not going to make  any 
award against it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2927505