K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Western Circle  Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
During 2016 and 2017  Ms M borrowed three loans from Cashfloat,  as follows:
Loan Amount Date  lent Date repaid Instalments
1 £200 5.7.16 15.7.16 2
2 £200 18.9.16 15.2.17 2
3 £400 16.2.17 15.8.17 3
 
Ms M has instructed a third party to bring  this complaint on her behalf but I will refer to Ms M 
throughout the complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that the checks Cashfloat did before making the first two loans were sufficient. But 
she didnt think it had carried  out adequate checks before agreeing  to provide loan three.  
So she recommended  that Cashfloat  refund all interest and charges  that Ms M paid on loan 
three, with interest  on the refund. And she said it should remove  any negative  information 
about this loan from Ms Ms credit file.
Because Cashfloat didnt respond to our adjudicators opinion  the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN26213212There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Before each loan Cashfloat asked Ms M for details of her income and expenditure, and also 
obtained information from credit reference  agencies against which her self-declared  
information was verified.  In the light of the information Cashfloat  had been  given I think  that 
its checks were  proportionate in relation to the first two loans. As such, I dont  think it was 
wrong to provide these two loans.
However by the time Ms M asked for loan three  I think that Cashfloat should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  I say this because:
repayment of loan two didnt occur  when scheduled, which  implies  Ms M had 
experienced difficulties in meeting  her prior commitments to Cashfloat;
loan three was given  on the day after loan two had been  repaid, and it was for twice the 
value of the previous loan;
this was Ms Ms third loan from Cashfloat in just over seven months;
Cashfloats credit checks showed  that Ms M had two new defaults recorded since  itd 
agreed to loan two.
In these circumstances I think that Cashfloat  shouldve recognised that loan three wasnt 
sustainable, and so I dont believe it was right to provide that loan.
putting things right
To put things right Cashfloat should:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Ms M on loans three;
Ref: DRN26213213add simple interest at 8% per annum to this amount from the date it was paid to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  about  loan three from Ms Ms credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take tax off this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Ms M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Western Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put thigs right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2621321