K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Allianz  Insurance Plc handled a claim for damage to his 
property. 
background
Mr H rented out his property to a tenant   the last inspection  was carried  out by his property 
management agents in February 2018,  where it was found  that the property was being  
maintained and there were no issues to report.  Five weeks later, they returned to find that 
the property had been damaged. Mr H made a claim to Allianz for the costs of the works  to 
restore the property  and because he didnt receive  three months rent. 
In August  2018,  Allianz accepted a claim for accidental damage  specifically for the door, 
carpet, vinyl and curtain pole. It said that because the damage is to separate areas  of the 
property, each incident would be a separate claim, requiring a separate  excess. It also 
explained that to cover lost rent, the property would  need to be uninhabitable,  which from the 
photos, wasnt the case here. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this decision.  He thought it should be categorised as malicious  
damage, and only subject to one excess  it was discovered at the same  time and couldve 
happened at the same time. He again  raised  that hed lost three months rent.
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint. It said the damage didnt look like it was the result of a 
one-off malicious damage, and it hadnt received a crime reference  number. It added that 
there are lots of areas of damage within the property. So, in all, it thought it reasonable to 
conclude the cause as accidental  damage and apply multiple  excesses. 
Mr H remained  unhappy, so he brought the complaint to us. Our investigator  agreed that it 
was accidental damage but thought only one excess should  apply.  They also didnt  think  
there was a valid claim for loss of rent. Allianz disagreed  they said there wasnt one 
proximate cause, so its right to apply  multiple  excesses. Mr H accepted these  findings,  but 
he added  that the damage  was the reason  that he lost rent. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to make a final decision. I understand that during this 
complaint, Mr H discovered more damage  in the loft of the property, giving rise to the 
possibility of a new claim.  To be clear, Ive not considered this in my decision, and should 
Mr H be unhappy with how Allianz  handled  this, it would  be a new complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz turned down  Mr Hs claim for malicious damage, instead considering the claim as 
accidental damage   and Im satisfied that was the right approach  here. Malicious damage 
isnt defined within the policy terms and conditions. So, taking into account the ordinary and 
natural meaning,  Id consider whether the person who caused the damage intended to cause  
harm. And here, while the photos  suggest  neglect (for example, theres a hole in the carpet 
and cracking in the wooden panels  on the door) theres no evidence  that persuades  me this 
was deliberate. 
Ref: DRN27216482So Im satisfied it was reasonable to view this as accidental damage.  Ive gone on to 
consider whether separate  excesses should apply.  Under the policy terms and conditions, 
Excess is defined as The first part of each and every claim, for which  the Insured is 
responsible. But what counts as a single claim isnt defined under the policy. So, while  I 
accept Allianzs point that there wasnt a single  proximate  cause here, theres nothing in the 
contract that supports that an excess is payable per proximate cause. Youll  note that this is 
different to other  parts  of the policy, like the legal expenses cover, which does  define  any 
one claim  as something arising out of the same original cause, event or circumstance.
Where terms are ambiguous, the preferred meaning  should  be interpreted against  the party 
that provided the wording (the contra proferentem doctrine). In the circumstances of this 
case, Mr H made a single  claim  and the matter was reviewed  and responded to as one. So, 
giving Mr H the benefit of the doubt, Im satisfied this can reasonably be regarded as a single 
claim. It follows  that Allianz should  only apply one excess. 
Ive also considered Mr Hs claim for loss of rent. The policy terms and conditions under 
Section 2 explain that Loss of Rent means the amount by which the Rent during the 
Indemnity Period falls short of the Rent which but for the Damage would have been 
received. Damage is defined to mean that which is covered under the policy.  That means  it 
wouldnt, for example, include the general  clean-up operation  that was needed here. 
Allianz dont think  Mr H lost rent as a consequence  of the damage that was covered  
instead its said it was most likely down to the time it took to find a new tenant after the 
original tenant  left. And I think  thats  reasonable, thinking about the works needed to repair 
the damage thats covered, and how long that wouldve taken. For example, it wouldve been 
possible to replace the flooring in a matter of days  so I cant say this meaningfully stopped 
Mr H from receiving rent. Instead,  I think  the lost rent more  likely came down to the previous 
tenant vacating the property without warning and the other  works carried out that were  
separate from the matters covered under the policy  i.e. changing  the locks,  the clean-up  
operation and repainting. That means  I wont be asking Allianz to do anything more  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc should  
reconsider Mr Hs claim for accidental  damage  in line with the terms and confections of the 
policy, subject to a single  excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2721648