K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Virgin Money  plc hasnt applied rewards  to his credit  card account 
correctly.
background
Mr Z opened a credit  card account  with Virgin Money in June 2018.  The account came  with 
certain rewards which included the chance to earn airline miles. After  opening  the account, 
Mr Z received a welcome  bonus of 15,000  miles. After that, he could earn 6,000 miles a 
month for the first three  months provided he spent at least £1,000 each month on the card.
Mr Z says he spent  the required amount on the card for the first three months. But his 
account hasnt  been credited with the number of air miles he was expecting. He hasnt 
received the bonus 6,000 air miles for the second  period even though  he believes he met the 
minimum spend. 
Mr Z complained to Virgin Money  who said that he hadnt met the required spend in the 
second qualifying  period.  This was because  he received some  refunds to the account during 
that period, which they say took his actual spend  to below £1,000. 
Mr Z didnt  think  that was fair so he brought his complaint to this service. He says he spent 
more than £1,000 in each  qualifying period. And he doesnt think its fair that the refunds 
have affected  the spend  calculation, particularly as he had no control  over when the retailer 
would refund those  sums. When our adjudicator looked into it, she thought  Virgin Money had 
applied the bonus miles correctly. But Mr Z remained  unhappy with the situation and asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z has provided  the email he received inviting him to take part in the bonus miles offer.  It 
says: As well as your 15,000 mile welcome  bonus (earned when you make  your first 
purchase within 90 days of opening the account), youll also get the opportunity to earn an 
extra 6,000  miles a month  in each of the next three months. You just need  to spend a 
minimum of £1,000 each  month on your card to qualify**.
The email  contains  a link to all of the detailed information you need . It also sets out further 
details about how the bonus  miles are calculated and applied.  As this is at the heart of the 
complaint, Ive set out the relevant wording  from the email below.
In addition  to the standard mileage earn rate and the standard mileage welcome bonus for 
the Virgin Atlantic Reward and Reward+ Credit Cards, you will earn bonus  Flying Club miles 
in each qualifying  period  when you spend  at least the required spend. Your  personalised 
email sets out the amount  of bonus Flying  Club miles that you are eligible to receive.  There 
are three qualifying periods. The first qualifying period  starts  on 18 June  2018  and continues 
until the end of your first full statement period after that date. The second and third qualifying  
periods last for your next two full statement periods respectively. For example, if your 
account opens on 18 June and your credit card statement  date is the seventh of the month 
your qualifying periods  would  be:
Ref: DRN20070582First qualifying period 18 June 2018  to 6 August  2018
Second qualifying period 7 August 2018  to 6 September 2018
Third qualifying period 7 September 2018 to 6 October 2018
The required spend is shown in your personalised email. In order to work out whether you 
have spent the required spend in a qualifying period, we will take the amount of card 
purchases made by you and your additional cardholder(s) and deduct any refunds you have 
received in the same qualifying period. Balance  transfers, money transfers,  cash advances 
(including cash based transactions such as gambling),  any spending in excess of your credit  
limit and returned card purchases are not included in the required spend.
So, although  the main body of the email  suggests the qualifying period is the first three  
months the account  is open, the detail at the bottom  of the same  email explains that the 
overall qualifying  period  might be more than three months. This is because the first 
qualifying period could be longer than a calendar  month, depending on what day of the 
month the account  was opened and what  the customers  statement date is.
Mr Z opened his account on 3 June 2018 and his statement date is the fourth day of each 
month. The offer only ran from 18 June (as confirmed in the email). So Mr Zs qualifying  
periods were  as follows:
1.18 June  3 August  2018;
2.4 August  3 September  2018;
3.4 September   3 October 2018.
Virgin Money say he met the required spend  in periods 1 and 3. The bonus miles for period 
1 were credited  on his September statement. The bonus miles for period 3 were credited on 
his November statement. But, due to the refunds to his account during period 2, Mr Z fell 
short of the required  spend in that period. 
The text at the bottom of the offer email  makes it clear that any refunds will be taken into 
account when  calculating the required spend  in a qualifying period. I understand Mr Zs 
frustration that he had purchased items  in July but the retailer didnt  refund  his account until 
August. So the refund  fell into the following statement period on his credit card account. If 
the refund  had happened more quickly, it could have  fallen within  the same statement period 
as the initial  purchase. That would have meant he met the required spend in all of the 
qualifying periods. I can sympathise with Mr Zs point of view here, as he had no control over 
the time it would take for the retailer to make  the refund.  But Virgin Money  had no control  
over that either. 
Mr Z says that the wording of the offer email  is ambiguous on this point.  But I dont agree. I 
think its clear  that, when Virgin Money  look at each qualifying period, they look at the 
purchases and then deduct  any refunds received in that window of time. So for Mr Zs 
qualifying period 2, they would look at all purchases made  between  4 August and 3 
September and then deduct any refunds received in that period. So I dont think the way 
Virgin Money have  calculated the required spend  is wrong.
I also think they have  applied the bonus miles to the account correctly.  The miles show  on 
the statements  after the qualifying period in which they were  earned. Thats in line with the 
terms and conditions, which say that the miles will be shown on the next credit card 
statement.
Ref: DRN20070583Mr Z is unhappy  that he has missed the required spend in period 2 by just a few pounds.  He 
points out that he exceeded the required spend  in periods 1 and 3. But the terms of the offer 
are quite clear that the required spend  is £1,000 in each qualifying  period. They  dont say 
anything about  credit being  given  for additional spending in other months. So I cant 
conclude that Virgin Money have acted  unfairly here.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr Z, but I dont think Virgin  Money have done anything 
wrong. So Im not going to ask them to do anything here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2007058