K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mr P from November 
2009 onwards.  Mr Ps last loan was provided in May 2010. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint  and thought  that loans two and three 
shouldnt have been given. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As the parties havent been able to agree 
on a resolution the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr P could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
done so, I also think that Mr P shouldnt have been  provided with loans two and three. I say 
this because the total repayment amount required for loan two represented a significant  
proportion of Mr Ps income.  So there was a significant risk that Mr P wouldnt be left enough 
Ref: DRN21548322to cover his normal monthly  living expenses  and his existing commitments.  And Mr P was 
likely to be able to repay this loan on time without borrowing further. 
The number of deferrals  and late payment fees Mr P incurred on loan two showed  that he 
was struggling financially.  Indeed it took him more than almost  five months to settle a loan 
that was supposed to be settled in one month.  So Im satisfied that Mr P shouldnt  have been 
provided with loan three either.
I think that Mr P lost out because he had to pay interest and charges on loans he shouldnt  
have been provided with. So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan two and three and 
Quick Quid should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan three from the outset. Any payments 
Mr P has made towards loan four so far should be deducted from the new starting  
balance;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan three  even after all the interest  and 
charges are removed. Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding  balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mr P should  it wish to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr P compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2154832