K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the amount that hes been charged by ALD Automotive Limited, 
trading as Kia Contract Hire, for damage to a car that had been supplied to him under a hire 
agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr H under  a hire agreement with Kia Contract  Hire that he 
signed in June 2015. He ended the agreement  early and the car was collected  and 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Kia Contract Hire in March 2018. The inspection 
report identified some dents and scratches  on the car and included photos  of the damage. 
Later that month  he received  a £208  invoice from Kia Contract  Hire for a repair  to the 
scratched tailgate.  He complained to Kia Contract  Hire but wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Kia 
Contract Hire was entitled to charge  Mr H for the damage and that the amount that it had 
charged him was in line with what it would usually charge  for similar  damage. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he disputes the level of charge being  applied. He says that he didnt even notice the 
scratch and had paid £240 to the dealer for the work  needed to repair  the car to an 
acceptable return condition. And he says that a charge  of £208 to repair a minor scratch is 
too high.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that, before returning the car, he got his local dealer to check  the car over and he 
paid the dealer £240 for some minor bumps  and scratches to be repaired and for repair  work  
to the alloy wheels. 
The car was collected and inspected  in March 2018  when  its mileage  was recorded as being  
21,021 miles. The inspection report identified  dents on all four passenger  doors, a scratched  
moulding on the tailgate and a scratched front bumper   and it included photos of that 
damage. The inspection report referred  to the scratch on the tailgate as being painted.
Kia Contract Hire says that the car was inspected again fifteen days  later and that a scratch 
on the tailgate was identified. It sent Mr H a vehicle appraisal invoice for £208 for a repair of 
the scratched  tailgate  which it says is its standard repair  and refinish charge for a grade 1 
scratched or dented tailgate.
Mr H says that the dealer mustve missed  that scratch when it repaired the car and he says 
that he hasnt  examined  the scratch - and didn't notice it  but that hes happy to accept on 
trust that the depth of the scratch requires remedial work. But he says that the charge  of 
£208 isnt justified.
That charge  is Kia Contract  Hires standard repair and refinish charge for a grade 1 
scratched or dented tailgate on a car (and grade 1 is the lowest  and cheapest  of three 
Ref: DRN20793152grades). Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show  that a charge of £208  isnt 
justified for the repair of the scratch on the cars  tailgate - or that the charge is too high. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Kia 
Contract Hire to waive (or reduce) the charge  that it has made to Mr H.
my decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2079315