K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down  her claim for the 
loss of her mobile  phone because it said she didnt own the phone.
background
Miss J has mobile phone insurance  linked to her bank account. She lost her phone and 
made a claim to Assurant.  She explained the mobile phone  contract  was in her fathers 
name, but hed gifted  the phone to her and she paid the mobile phone bill from her bank 
account. 
Assurant wouldnt consider Miss Js claim because  the mobile phone contract was in 
Miss Js fathers name, and he was responsible for the payments. Miss J didnt think  this was 
fair and came to us. 
Our investigator thought Miss J had done enough to show  the phone  shed lost had 
belonged to her and not to her father. Assurant didnt agree so the complaints come to me 
for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Ill explain 
why. 
The mobile phone insurance policy information  is in a long document that includes all the 
information about the different bank  account  benefits. The policy summary on page 9 says 
that one phone is insured for a sole bank account,  and covers  loss less the policy excess.  
On page 26 it says To benefit from cover,  the mobile phone must be owned by you, and be 
the responsibility of you, your partner or a dependent child.  This information is repeated in 
the full mobile  policy information, which is on page 117.
As Assurant  says the policy  gives further information about proof of ownership. On page 123 
the policy says that Assurant needs  to know that the mobile  phone, SIM card and 
accessories you are claiming  for are yours. Therefore you will need to provide some form of 
proof of ownership. The information it needs includes the make and model of the phone, 
something that tells it that the items claimed  for belong to the account  holder and confirms 
the make, model, memory size and IMEI number of the mobile phone. It goes on to say that 
proof of ownership could  include a till receipt  or documentation from the airtime provider. If 
theres no proof of ownership Assurant says it may decline the claim.
I think Miss J has given  Assurant enough  information to prove she owns  the mobile phone  
and it is her responsibility. Shes given Assurant a letter from her father explaining that hed 
bought a mobile phone for her and also for his partner, under  a multi phone  deal.  He said 
Miss J had continued to use the same airtime provider at the end of the original  contract. 
Assurant says that it doesnt accept this type of letter as a transfer of ownership because  it 
cant verify the contents. But I dont think this is a fair reason to reject this evidence, given for 
the sole purpose of saying that Miss J, rather than her father, owned the phone that was lost.
I say this not least because Miss J has also sent Assurant evidence from the airtime 
provider. This is the monthly bill, which shows the account number and the amount charged  
Ref: DRN22144202for a stated  month. The bill is in her fathers name.  But Miss Js bank statement shows shes  
paying the monthly bill to the airtime provider, under a reference  number that corresponds  to 
the account number shown on the bill. As Assurant  accepts its unlikely Miss J would be 
paying for a mobile phone contract  if the phone wasnt  hers. 
Miss J says the monthly  cost (over £60) likely includes the cost of the phone. That may be 
so, but I dont think it makes a material difference in this case. Miss Js father continued the 
contract hed arranged in his name, on her behalf,  and Miss J is paying  the bill.
Its not uncommon for a parent to buy a phone and/or  arrange  a mobile phone contract for 
their adult child. I think Miss J has sent Assurant  sufficient proof that she owns  the phone  
and has taken responsibility for the phone contract, within  the reasonable reading of the 
policy terms.  
So I find a fair outcome  to this complaint is that Assurant must reconsider Miss Js claim, 
without reference  to the requirement for proof  of ownership. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I order Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to reconsider  Miss Js claim under the mobile phone  insurance policy without 
reference to the proof of ownership  requirements. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2214420