K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way that his home insurance claim for water damage was dealt 
with by St Andrews Insurance  Plc.
background
In August  2017  Mr M suffered a water leak in his home. Substantial  damage  was caused to 
the bathroom and sitting room ceiling  which collapsed  and fell onto the parquet  flooring 
below, Mr M had to move  out with his family and alternative accommodation  had to be 
arranged. He had a policy limit of £20,000  but because he lived in an expensive area, costs 
for a suitable  property  soon exceeded  the limit. Mr M didnt have a contents policy  but the 
underwriter agreed to increase the limit on the buildings policy  to £30,000.  
Contents were removed from the property to allow the building reinstatement work to 
commence. After the property was stripped  out, drying commenced and this took until 20 
November 2017  to complete. The works  were  then delayed mainly because  Mr M had a 
bespoke kitchen which had to be designed  and fitted by the supplier. This wasnt  available  
for fitting  until April 2018.
Mr M moved  back into the property in May 2018.  He had by then greatly exceeded the policy 
limit meaning hed had to fund much of the accommodation costs  himself. There were  a 
number of outstanding repairs and some  issues needed rectifying. St Andrews said that it 
couldnt increase  the payment for the alternative  accommodation but agreed to pay £550 
compensation. This was for delays and poor workmanship.
Mr M had a further complaint about the kitchen floor tiles and the fact that they needed  
removing and replacing. He also has raised with St Andrews  a long list of outstanding 
repairs. Both these issues are being dealt with as separate  complaints.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that St Andrews response in respect of the 
alternative accommodation was fair. He also said that the compensation offered (up until 
St Andrews  final response letter of 6 June)  was reasonable. However, he proposed that 
St Andrews  pay for the utilities and council tax relating to the alternative  accommodation.
St Andrews  pointed out that council tax comes within the costs of alternative 
accommodation, and as it had reached the limit, no further payments should be payable. 
With regard to utilities this hadnt  been  raised  before and it was willing  to consider those on 
production of evidence.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
As Ive said,  there were further issues raised by Mr M in respect of the tiling in the kitchen 
and the long list of outstanding repairs. Both those issues have been or will be dealt with in 
separate complaints, so I wont make  any finding  in respect of them.
Ref: DRN25814052delays with the kitchen
I understand that there was a substantial delay in getting the kitchen ordered and delivered. 
This was done though the supplier of the kitchen and was something  St Andrews wasnt 
responsible for. I see from the files that its agents  took all necessary steps to chase up the 
suppliers. But I do think it could have managed Mr Ms expectations better, having assured  
him the works  would be completed by the end of February 2018.
alternative accommodation
It is unfortunate that the alternative  accommodation  limit wasnt sufficient for Mr M. But I do 
note that St Andrews  agreed to increase the limit to £30,000 from the policy  limit of £20,000. 
So, St Andrews has already  paid £10,000 more than the policy  strictly requires it to do. 
Therefore, I think it was reasonable for St Andrews  to apply  the enhanced limit, and not pay 
anything above  that amount
We may ask an insurer to pay for such accommodation over and above the limit where we 
think its at fault for delays, causing consumers to have to stay in alternative accommodation 
longer than necessary. Im not concerned here with whether  such  accommodation was 
needed in respect  of having to remove the kitchen for the floor tiles to be redone. Nor if it 
was needed for outstanding repairs. As Ive said they are being looked  at separately.
But I do note that, while a lot of delay  was due to the kitchen  suppliers St Andrews final 
response letter did say that some  of the delays were caused by the kitchen suppliers. At 
the time of moving back a substantial amount of work needed doing. I further understand 
that delays were caused because it was discovered that the fridge  wouldnt fit through the 
doors and a crane had to be arranged to lift it. I think that Mr M wouldnt have moved  back  in 
had the accommodation limit not been reached.
I think that council  tax, if it relates to the alternative  property does come  within  the alternative 
accommodation provision  in the policy since this covers  The costs of similar  alternative  
accommodation. Nevertheless I think it fair in light of the fact that St Andrews was 
responsible for some  delays that it pay the council tax charges for the alternative 
accommodation. 
With regard to utilities, I wouldnt expect  St Andrews to pay these for the alternative  
accommodation. Again I take the view that the utilities  But it should pay for any utilities  used 
in the home  while  repairs  were  being  carried out and Mr M was living elsewhere. 
In both cases Mr M should supply the appropriate evidence of bills, receipts etc to 
St Andrews.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require St Andrews Insurance  Plc:
subject to Mr M providing the necessary evidence, to pay the cost of any utilities used  in 
the insured property  while  Mr M was in alternative accommodation and pay the council  
tax for that accommodation.
Ref: DRN25814053To add interest* to those payments  at 8% simple per year from 14 days  after Mr M 
provides evidence of payment until settlement.
*St Andrews Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs  to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr M request  it, St Andrews should provide him with a certificate  
showing how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2581405