K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  they were mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
First Complete Ltd.
background
Mr and Mrs S had an existing mortgage, also arranged by First Complete, when they took 
further advice  in 2006. This complaint is about the 2006 re-mortgage, not the earlier  advice.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says the 2006  advice wasnt  suitable for them. It says they 
exchanged a repayment mortgage for an interest  only mortgage. They had no repayment 
strategy other than sale of the property which was never an acceptable strategy  at the time.  
They increased their borrowing and the new mortgage was unaffordable. They were advised 
to take a more  expensive  self-certified mortgage  with a sub-prime lender when there was no 
need to do so. And the borrowing extended into Mr Ss retirement. Mr and Mrs S struggled to 
afford the mortgage  and were forced to sell the property in 2016 when Mr Ss health meant 
he could no longer work.
First Complete didnt agree the mortgage  was unsuitable. It said it met Mr and Mrs Ss 
objectives at the time. Their previous mortgage  was interest only,  not repayment, so this 
mortgage replicated that. Sale of the property was an acceptable repayment strategy, and it 
wasnt First Completes responsibility  to arrange a repayment  vehicle.  Mr and Mrs S 
understood what they were taking out and it was suitable for them.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs Ss 
representative asked  for it to be considered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The standard to be applied  when  considering  this complaint is the mortgage rules,  and 
whats fair and reasonable taking them into account, as they were at the time. The rules 
were very different then compared  to now. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ss representative 
that sale of the property  was always an unacceptable strategy; there are circumstances 
where it was appropriate  and suitable  it depends on the individual case. The same is true 
of self-certification  mortgages. Theyre not allowed now,  but they were  at the time, and 
based on the standards of the time they were appropriate in some  cases  and not in others.
Theres some dispute about  what Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances were at the time they took 
the mortgage out. Their representative says they previously had a repayment mortgage.  But 
its not provided evidence of that, and the paperwork from the time suggests it was interest  
only  and thats supported by what Mr and Mrs S were paying as their monthly  payments. 
They werent paying enough  for it to be repayment,  so Im satisfied their previous mortgage 
was interest only too.
That means that this mortgage advice replicated  their previous arrangements.  It didnt 
convert a repayment  mortgage into an interest  only one.
Ref: DRN28889702I dont think taking out a repayment  mortgage would have been possible for Mr and Mrs S at 
the time.  They said their maximum  monthly budget was £800, much  less than a repayment 
mortgage would have cost. And their representative has said that they struggled even with 
this mortgage.  Im therefore  satisfied that First Complete couldnt have recommended  a 
repayment mortgage, because that would have been unaffordable.
That means interest only was the only option   that, or not going  ahead at all. Mr and Mrs S 
already had an interest only mortgage, so this mortgage didnt leave them  in a worse 
position, and allowed  them to achieve  their other  objectives. Sale of the property isnt always  
wrong. While  in this case Mr and Mrs S had a fairly  high loan to value, and therefore little 
equity from which to build up enough of a cushion to pay back  the loan and down-size, I 
dont think this recommendation left them in a substantially worse position than they were in 
already. 
Mr and Mrs S had come to the end of the fixed rate on their previous mortgage. This re-
mortgage gave  them a new rate, and also gave them the further  borrowing  they wanted  
within their overall budget.
The recommended  mortgage wasnt quite the cheapest in terms of initial  monthly payment or 
interest rate. First Complete has said the only lender  with a cheaper mortgage  wouldnt have  
accepted the amount of additional unsecured debt Mr and Mrs S had. I dont have evidence 
of the individual lenders lending criteria at the time,  but I dont think  the mortgage selected  
was unsuitable  just because it wasnt the very cheapest available. 
All the mortgages  compared were self-certification mortgages. Mr and Mrs Ss 
representative says that was unsuitable because it wasnt necessary, and because a self-
certification mortgage  would  have been  more expensive. I accept that, in general, self-
certification mortgages  charged a higher rate because of extra risk to the lender  though 
Ive no evidence about the specific full certification  mortgages available in Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time. 
However, the paperwork from the time records that Mr S had become self-employed in a 
new profession within the last two years.  It wasnt unusual for self-certification  to be selected 
in those circumstances  because the borrower  doesnt have enough  finalised accounts,  for 
example, or because  income is rising  year on year as the business gets established. I dont 
know the reasons  why it was selected  in this case; theyre not recorded.  But self-certification 
wasnt inherently unsuitable at the time,  especially in these circumstances. I dont have 
enough evidence  to be able to conclude it was wrong for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative also says that the adviser recorded Mr Ss retirement age as 
70, and arranged the mortgage term accordingly.  The representative says that was never Mr 
Ss intention,  he always planned to retire at 65, and therefore this mortgage extended into 
his retirement. The fact find records Mr Ss planned  retirement age as 70, and so does  the 
suitability letter  and Ive no evidence that Mr S questioned this at the time. I think its likely 
that reflected  his plans at the time (though I accept  theyve  changed  since).  And in any case  
I dont think this makes the mortgage unsuitable. It met Mr Ss circumstances as they were 
at the time.
Overall, taking into account what was recorded as being Mr and Mrs Ss needs and 
circumstances at the time, I dont think First Complete made an unsuitable recommendation. 
And so I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN28889703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 January  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2888970