K821x#15complaint
Ms N is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company  Limited has handled  her insurance 
claim for damage to her kitchen following an escape of water.
For ease of reading, any reference to Admiral also includes its agents.
background
In August  2018  Ms N discovered  water was coming up into her kitchen sink through  the 
waste outlet. In addition,  her washing machine began filling with dirty water into the drum. 
She called her home emergency supplier, and whilst on the phone, she says the water 
burst out from the washing machine and onto the floor. The plumber sent out by the home 
emergency supplier  said that the pipe outside  was blocked meaning that waste  water  from 
the upstairs flat was coming into Ms Ns property. Ms N made a claim to Admiral  for the 
water damage to her kitchen units and appliances,  along with the carpets  in adjoining 
rooms.
Admiral sent out a surveyor  to assess the damage. Ms N complained  as she didnt feel the 
surveyor behaved in a professional manner. As a result, a further surveyor was instructed. 
Following the reports  from these two surveyors, Admiral arranged  for another  investigator 
to validate the claim.
Ms N was unhappy with the length  of time it was taking to finalise  the matter  and the 
handling of her claim. She therefore  complained  to Admiral who looked  into the matter. 
Admiral said that the second surveyor was instructed due to the concerns Ms N had raised 
initially. It also said that Ms N raised concerns with the second surveyor  too. In relation to 
the handling it said that all claims needed  to be validated to confirm  the cause of damage 
prior to agreeing  cover  which is why there were three separate reports issued.
Admiral said that the damage in the kitchen was extensive and inconsistent with the claim 
that was reported.  It told Ms N that it was aware  there were  previous  escape of water  
claims made  that could  have caused  some of this damage. So, it believed  some of the 
damage had been  ongoing for some  time.  Admiral  made an offer to pay £2524.16 (less the 
applicable policy excess)  for the damage it believed  was linked to this event, along with a 
payment to sanitise the area affected. This included payment for a fridge freezer, but it 
refused the claim for the oven and washing machine as their technician  hadnt 
recommended these needed  replacing.
Ms N remained unhappy  with this response. She said her policy included cover  for a new 
kitchen and Admiral  was trying to avoid paying  for what she was entitled to claim. So, she 
brought her complaint  to this service. Our investigator looked  into the matter and found that 
the offer made by Admiral  was fair. She explained that due to the damage  that Ms N had 
said had occurred following the escape  of water,  Admiral needed  to investigate this further  
to be able to settle  the claim  so she didnt  think it had acted unreasonably when 
investigating her claim.
She also said that as Admiral had offered to replace the one unit that it says was damaged 
in this incident, and the original door could be rehung, she didnt  think  that it had to replace 
any of the other units that Admiral said werent affected by this escape of water as it would 
still match. In relation to the oven and washing machine that Ms N wished  to claim for, she 
Ref: DRN25849742said that she hadnt seen anything to contradict  the technicians report so didnt agree 
Admiral needed  to pay for those items.
Ms N disagreed with the investigators view.  She said that she didnt  understand why 
Admiral had singled out the one unit next to the sink as being the only one damaged in this 
incident. Ms N pointed out that by Admiral  agreeing  to pay for the fridge freezer,  which was 
located diagonally opposite the unit, it showed that Admiral had acknowledged  that the 
corner units were affected. She went on to say that all of the kitchen units had been  
damaged due to blown chipboard on the legs which were integral to the carcasses. She 
also stated that Admiral had not sent out a drying  company as it should have done   if it 
had done so it would have  been  able to fully assess the damage.
As no agreement could be made, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
On 14 August 2020 I issued my provisional decision.  I explained that I was thinking  of 
coming to a different outcome to that of our investigator. In my provisional decision I said:
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that an escape of water took place on the date 
notified. But the main crux of the complaint is centred around  Admirals settlement of the 
claim, specifically in relation to the amount of damage caused  by this incident  and whether  
Ms N is entitled to a replacement kitchen under her policy. So, I need to consider if Admiral  
has acted in accordance with the terms and this claim  and, if not, was it fair and reasonable 
for it not to do so.
Firstly, its important to note that Admiral arranged  for three inspections  to take place of 
Ms Ns property. I accept that the second  one was following Ms Ns complaint  regarding the 
professionalism of the initial surveyor. Whilst the ultimate decision about cover  rests with 
Admiral, the purpose  of these reports is to help it validate the claim event. And so, I have 
taken into consideration what has been  said in the reports when reaching my outcome.
Admiral has said that the kitchen was suffering from wear  and tear and that not all of the 
damage was caused by this one incident. It also says that some  of the damage has likely 
been caused gradually over time  and it has referred to an earlier  escape of water claim. 
Ive looked at the photographs both parties  have provided, and it is clear that this is an older  
kitchen which, as you would expect, does seem to show signs  of wear from what would be 
considered as general use over the years. And this is why Admiral has said its offer is 
limited.
Ms N has said that the fridge freezer was opposite the washing machine, where the main 
volume of water escaped  from, and so the units between these two areas would also have 
come into contact with the waste water. And from looking at the photographs of the layout 
of the kitchen, this would seem plausible. Ive also noted that the initial  surveyors report 
included damp  readings  from the area around the bottom  of the units  which appear to 
indicate high levels of moisture were present. So, Im persuaded that the water from this 
incident did come  into contact with the units to the left side of Ms Ns kitchen. It therefore 
follows that I dont  think it is reasonable to say this area wouldnt have been  affected by this 
event.
Ive seen from the reports that it was believed the base units were on metal legs,  which  
wouldnt be porous  and therefore could  be sanitised.  But photographs have been  provided  
that show the units are actually on chipboard  legs which appear to be integral to the sides 
of the cupboards themselves. And these have  open  cut edges meaning that any waste 
Ref: DRN25849743water could soak into the wood. The pictures also show that there are stains  to the legs 
which could easily be water contamination from this incident. Regardless  of whether there 
was previous wear  and tear on these  items,  if there is a likely contamination of the 
cupboards as a result  of this incident,  I think it would be necessary to sanitise them.  And 
Ive noted that on two out of three of the reports there is reference  to sanitising being 
required. However, Admiral hasnt  been  able to demonstrate how it would be possible to 
effectively sanitise the open chipboard on these cupboards.
In addition to this, two reports  refer to the sanitisation of the floor and possibly  walls.  And 
both mention that the base units will need to be removed in order for this to happen. So, 
notwithstanding the first point about the chipboard  legs, it seems unlikely to me that the 
units would  withstand  the removal and refitting.  Whilst  Admiral has chosen  to offer Ms N a 
cash settlement, which it is within its rights to do, this shouldnt  put her at a disadvantage. 
Taking this into account Im persuaded that Admiral  should include these base units in its 
settlement offer.
When making her claim, Ms N says she was made aware that she had cover  for matching 
sets and so she thinks Admiral should  be paying to replace  her whole kitchen. Ms Ns policy 
includes the following  term in relation  to matching items;
We will pay for an item that is lost or damaged but not for the other pieces of the set 
or suite which are undamaged, unless they form part of a bathroom suite or fitted  
kitchen and the damaged part cannot be repaired or a replacement found.
The important part to note here is that this only comes into force if the damaged  part cannot 
be repaired  or a replacement found. Im aware  Ms N has commented that if the base 
carcasses were replaced, the doors to one of the units (the larder) wouldnt  be able to be re- 
used as the dimensions are different. As this is an older style kitchen it would seem 
reasonable that the style and design of cupboards would have changed over the years.  And 
that would  mean a suitable replacement hadnt  been found. Therefore, Admiral  would  need  
to consider the replacement of the whole kitchen as per the term in its policy.
It is accepted by all that Ms Ns kitchen is quite old. And, even though  Ms Ns policy has 
cover for matching sets, such as a fitted kitchen, I have to consider whether it would be fair 
to ask Admiral to replace the whole  kitchen. Ive thought about this carefully,  but Im not 
persuaded this would be a fair outcome in this case. I say this because this would put Ms N 
in a much  better position than she was in prior to the loss occurring. She would have a 
brand new fitted  kitchen  to replace one that was showing a lot of signs  of wear and tear and 
was potentially reaching the end of its life  Im not of the opinion  this is the intention of the 
policy. In addition, Ms N was in the process  of redecorating and had already ordered  units 
for the right-hand side of her kitchen. So, it would seem that she was aware of the need to 
refresh the area and was preparing to replace some of the units herself and therefore 
potentially the whole  kitchen would not have matched.
In the circumstances, I think it would be reasonable for Admiral to contribute 50% to the 
cost of the new kitchen,  taking  into account  what Ive said above. Ms N has provided  
details of costings  of a new kitchen from a well-known  DIY retailer  and it would therefore 
seem sensible  for Admiral to use this estimate to calculate its contribution. Obviously if 
these costs have  increased since the estimate  was created, Ms N should provide Admiral 
with an updated  version. Im aware that this cost doesnt include fitting  and so Admiral will 
need to incorporate this into its settlement.
Ref: DRN25849744This estimate does  include some  of the items  that have already been paid to Ms N in the 
initial settlement  offer,  such  as one base unit, plinths and the fridge freezer.  Admiral  should 
remove these from the estimate before calculating the 50% contribution.
Admiral has paid for Ms Ns fridge  freezer but not the washing machine or oven. In the 
report provided to Admiral, the technician has said the washing machine  was working 
correctly and the built-in oven (which was not in the housing  but placed  on the floor on the 
right-hand side of Ms Ns kitchen) was dry and so he didnt think  it had been  contaminated. 
Ms N says the technician  told her that they should be replaced  as they could have been 
contaminated. As there  are differing opinions on this matter, I need to think  about what I 
consider to be the reasonable  way forward in this matter.
The main  area of damage in Ms Ns kitchen has been the left side. The oven was in the far 
corner on the right side of the room. So in the first instance, I can understand the logic of the 
report provided to Admiral. However, this item was not contained within  a base unit but was 
situated on the floor  Ms N has said she had recently bought the item but had not yet 
installed it. Whilst it is unlikely that the escape  of water would have led to large volumes  of 
water going  in this direction, I do think that some water would have made  its way across the 
floor. And I must also take into consideration that the inspection of this item took place nearly  
three weeks after the incident had occurred  so it isnt likely that the item would have 
remained damp over that period. As this item is used  for preparing food, I dont think there is 
enough to say this hasnt  been contaminated and therefore Im more persuaded that this 
should be replaced.
In relation to the washing machine, reports confirm that Ms N used the washing machine 
on a number of occasions and didnt  encounter  any issues. So, whilst  I appreciate her 
concerns, I dont have  sufficient evidence to suggest that this appliance needed  to be 
replaced.
Ms N also wants  to claim for her kitchen floor which she says she removed when the 
escape of water occurred.  Admiral  has said that, as the floor had already been  taken  up by 
Ms N before it had a chance to inspect  it, it cannot say that the floor needed to be replaced. 
In order for me to instruct  Admiral to pay for the flooring,  I would need  to be satisfied that 
there was an immediate need for Ms N to remove the tiles, rather than wait for Admiral to 
inspect them. From the pictures  Ive seen, the flooring consisted of individual linoleum tiles 
which were stuck down  on the floor. And so, it isnt immediately obvious  to me that there 
would be a need to remove these in order to mop up the floor.  On this basis,  as Admiral 
has not had the opportunity to see the flooring in situ to determine  if it needed  replacing,  Im 
not persuaded that there is enough evidence to support this aspect of the claim.
When taking everything into account,  I think Admiral  should  have handled this claim more 
appropriately. Ms N has said she has been made to feel like she is lying about her claim 
and trying to get something she is not entitled to. I think its clear that this would have been 
distressing for anyone. And as a result  of Admirals actions, her claim has been delayed.  
With that in mind, I think Admiral should  pay Ms N £300 in recognition of the upset and 
inconvenience this has caused.
putting things right
Admiral needs to do the following:
Ref: DRN25849745Contribute 50% of the cost towards a new kitchen, based on the estimate 
supplied by Ms N. If the costings are now out of date, Ms N needs to provide  an 
up to date version to Admiral. (Admiral  can remove any items from the estimate  
which have already been reimbursed  in earlier settlement offers.)
Include in its settlement  offer an amount for the cost of installation/fitting  of the 
new kitchen.
Pay for a replacement oven
Pay compensation of £300 to Ms N
Admiral responded  to say it agreed  with my provisional decision. Ms N also replied. She 
accepted my provisional findings in relation to the 50% contribution to the cost of the new 
kitchen, the inclusion of the installation/fitting costs and also in respect of the replacement 
oven. However, Ms N didnt agree with my comments about her kitchen flooring as she said 
she has already been  paid for this. And she felt that the compensation offer made was too 
low. She said that a figure of £1000  would better  reflect  the distress, inconvenience, 
despair, frustration and anxiety she has suffered. She also said this would take into 
consideration the amount  of personal  time and time off work she has incurred.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N has provided up to date estimates to this service in relation  to the cost of the kitchen. I 
will there arrange for these to be passed on to Admiral for it to consider when it is calculating 
its settlement offer for the kitchen. Ms N has said she assumes  that the disposal costs for 
the old kitchen  would  be included in the offer and, whilst I havent specifically mentioned  this 
in my provisional decision,  I think it would be reasonable to expect the installation and fitting 
of a kitchen to normally include those costs to remove  the old kitchen. So I would ask 
Admiral to look into this cost favourably.
In relation to the kitchen flooring, Ms N has said she has been  paid for this already in the 
initial claim settlement. But the cash settlement previously offered and paid only included 
£600 for the two carpets that were claimed, not the kitchen floor tiles. Ms N has provided  a 
further explanation as to why she removed the flooring, stating that there were two layers   
tiles and a covering of linoleum  and she removed these  to try to minimise the 
contamination and avoid  it travelling  further  to the hall and bathroom carpet. She doesnt 
agree that she should have left this down. I appreciate Ms Ns further comments, however, if 
contamination was the main concern, I would have expected the hallway and bathroom  
carpets to also have been removed  this didnt happen. But I also note that Ms N has stated 
that she feels the amount of £600 for all floor coverings, including  the kitchen, is adequate. 
So on this basis, and as her comments have not altered my view on this aspect  of the 
complaint, Admiral doesnt  need to pay anything  further for the flooring.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Ns comments regarding the compensation award. Having 
reviewed all of the documentation  when reaching  my provisional  outcome, it was clear to me 
that an award was due for the distress this whole  episode caused Ms N during this time. 
However, dealing  with an insurance  claim  involving  such damage is inevitably inconvenient 
and taking time off work to attend surveyor visits and having to make phone  calls and 
respond to emails is necessary for a lot of cases like this. And I wouldnt award 
compensation for what would be considered the normal handling of an insurance claim.
Ref: DRN25849746Ms N has been put to more inconvenience  than most  as a result  of the way Admiral has 
handled this issue  and Ive no doubt  this has impacted her and caused her distress. But I 
think that my award of £300  recognises  the impact  this has had on her, over and above what  
we would normally expect  for an insurance  claim.  Im not persuaded that this sum should be 
increased.
putting things right
Admiral needs to do the following:
Contribute 50% of the cost towards a new kitchen, based on the estimate 
supplied by Ms N. Ms N has provided new estimates to this service which will 
be passed on. (Admiral  can remove any items  from the estimate which  have 
already been reimbursed in earlier settlement offers.)
Include in its settlement  offer an amount for the cost of installation/fitting  of 
the new kitchen (Admiral  should take into consideration disposal costs)
Pay for a replacement oven
Pay compensation of £300 to Ms N
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above  I uphold this complaint.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  must  put things right as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2584974