K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her two 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss N was given an instalment loan by Sunny on 27 April 2015 for £900. The loan was 
repayable in six monthly instalments of £294.  Miss N repaid her first instalment  but before 
the second instalment was due Miss N took out a further instalment loan for £200 repayable 
in 6 monthly instalments of £33.34. Miss N wasnt able to make any repayments to either  of 
the loans after this. It appears  that Sunny has sold the outstanding balance  to a third party  
debt collection company. 
Miss Ns complaint has been  assessed by two of our adjudicators. Initially  the first 
adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out enough checks before lending to Miss N. Miss N 
replied with her credit  file and said that this demonstrated she had significant outstanding 
debt at the time of taking the loans from Sunny. The adjudicator agreed and revised her view 
to say that Sunny shouldnt have given  the loans to Miss N. 
Sunny responded with further information  about  the credit information that it obtained as a 
result of its checks. This was reviewed by another adjudicator and she concluded  that 
Sunnys checks were enough  and that it wasnt wrong to have given the loans to Miss N. So 
she didnt recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.
Miss N didnt agree with that assessment. She said that Sunny should have seen she was in 
difficulty by looking at her credit report and asked  to see copies of the checks carried out. 
Miss N hasnt sent us anything else after the checks were sent to her. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Miss N 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss N was borrowing, and her lending history, 
but there was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss N. Before granting the loans 
it asked her for details  of her income,  and her normal  expenditure. And it checked Miss Ns 
credit file before granting the loan too. Although those checks showed  that Miss N had some 
other borrowing, I dont think those issues were sufficient to cause significant additional 
concerns to the lender.  What can be seen by the lender is very different to a full credit file 
and from what I have  seen there  was nothing to alert Sunny that Miss N was struggling  or 
that required further checks.
Ref: DRN23138962The loans were  repayable over a six month  period. So the amounts that Miss N needed to 
repay each  time were smaller  than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But of course she 
was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. 
The loan that Miss N took was relatively modest  compared to the income shed declared  to 
Sunny. She told Sunny that her income was £2679 for loan 1 and by loan 2 it had increased 
to £3057 and her outgoings were  £1401 for loan 1 and £1325 for loan 2. Miss N had made 
the first repayment for loan 1 without difficulty. So the repayments all appeared to be easily 
affordable based  on what  shed told Sunny about  her normal expenditure. This was in line 
with what Sunny had seen on the credit file and it had no reason to doubt  what  Miss N was 
saying about her finances.  So I think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information 
Miss N had provided at this stage in the lending relationship. And that information suggested 
that the loans  were  affordable for her.
I appreciate that Miss N says her financial situation was much worse than she told Sunny. 
But I think Sunny was entitled to rely on the information Miss N provided at the time, and that 
suggested the loans were  affordable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Elevate Credit International Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313896