K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with the handling  of a claim under his home emergency insurance  policy  
with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Admiral uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. Its these agents  that Mr C was in 
contact with in relation  to his claim. Any reference  to Admiral in this decision should 
therefore be read as including  those  agents.  
background 
On 1 March 2018,  Mr C contacted Admiral to make  a claim because his boiler  had stopped 
working. Admiral contacted Mr C the following day to advise him that it was unable  to send a 
contractor straight away due to high demand  at the time. Admiral told Mr C that if he 
arranged for his own contractor to repair  the boiler,  it would reimburse  the cost. Mr C was 
unhappy with this and wanted  Admiral to send someone, as he could not find anyone 
available. As a result Mr C was without  a working  boiler for a week.  
The boiler was repaired and apparently worked intermittently for around a month,  before it 
was properly repaired. Mr C says he had to rely on his open  fire and bought  two heaters 
during this time and also had to shower at the gym.  
Mr C is extremely  unhappy with the service provided  during the handling of his claim. He 
says Admiral failed to keep him updated and he had to spend  hours  on hold to the customer
services team; he was however able to communicate with the complaints  team.  Mr C also 
says he received conflicting text messages about the contractors and appointments; and 
Admiral failed to call him back when promised.
Admiral accepts that the service provided  was not as Mr C was entitled to expect. It says its 
office was located in a red weather warning zone during  the time of his claim and so many  of 
its staff were  unable to get in; and its contingency plan involves the Glasgow office,  which 
was also seriously affected by the weather. This was why its customer service  teams  were  
unable to answer and return calls as promptly as normal. However, Admiral has said some  
staff were able to work from home,  including some of its complaints-handling team, which  is 
why they were able to respond to Mr Cs complaint by email.  Admiral offered Mr C £250 
compensation, being the value of the alternative accommodation benefit under the policy 
and an additional  £20 compensation for the failures  in communication.  
Mr C accepted the £250 offered for his financial losses but doesnt consider  that £20 is 
enough to reflect the trouble caused to him by the communication problems. 
 
Admiral said that the total offer of £270 was general compensation - the offer of £250  was 
not to reimburse  the actual cost of any alternative accommodation Mr C had incurred (as he 
had stayed at his own home) but was compensation for the trouble caused to him.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. The investigator recommended  that the total 
compensation be increased  by £30 (so a total of £300). 
Mr C doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment  and so the matter has been referred to 
me.  Mr C says he acknowledges  this was a time of considerable stress for Admiral in the 
few days around the time he first made his claim. However, the lack of communication and 
problems he experienced went on for five weeks. 
Ref: DRN29156842The customers service department didnt contact him at all in the weeks that he was waiting 
for the boiler to be properly repaired,  to update him or check on progress, despite him 
already having  complained about a lack of communication. He asked for contact specifically 
twice via the complaints-handlers  and they still failed  to contact  him. There was a complete 
disregard for him and his family, even once  operations were  back up and running  properly 
again after the storm had passed.  
The complaints department has now compounded the matter  by claiming it was a 
miscommunication that the £250 compensation was for out of pocked expenses (which  he 
did not ask for, even  though he did incur  some expenses in relation to heaters and additional 
fuel costs).  His complaint  was solely about the problems  with communication and the £50 
compensation proposed for this is insulting.  Admiral  made clear  the £20 it had offered was 
for the lack of communication. Mr C wants £250  for the lack of communication  in addition to 
the £300.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can quite understand  why Mr C is unhappy that he had trouble speaking  to the claims team  
about the problem with his boiler  and that it took some time before anyone  was able to come  
out. I also accept that it took some time to complete the permanent  repair. He took out the 
policy with Admiral to provide cover for exactly the situation he found himself  in and so that 
he would  get prompt assistance and not have to find his own gas engineer.  
However, as Mr C also recognises there was some exceptionally bad weather at the same 
time. This did make communications  more difficult and meant that there was a high demand 
for available  engineers. However, despite the problems communicating with the claims team, 
I note the contractors were able to speak to Mr C on 2 March 2018 and give him some 
advice before they came out on 5 March 2018.  I can see the engineer told Mr C that the cost 
of the new fan would be covered but also that they were having trouble getting  the part. 
Mr C did receive  some  confusing texts saying that his job had been  allocated to different 
contractors; and he was not told that an appointment had been cancelled  until he chased 
about it. While I can understand the frustration caused by this and in having had to stay on 
hold for so long to lodge the claim and in not being able to speak to the claims-handlers, Mr 
C was provided with some information  by those working on behalf of Admiral.   
I acknowledge that Admiral first told Mr C that it was offering £20 compensation purely for 
the communication errors.  It has since said that the total £270 offered was for general 
compensation. While I can see Mr Cs point  about this alteration, I do not agree that a further 
£250 compensation is warranted. 
Mr C incurred some additional fuel costs and bought two heaters. Admiral  already paid £50 
for one heater. Mr C says this cost him £90 but Ive not seen any convincing  evidence that a 
heater could not have been bought for £50. The boiler was apparently working intermittently  
and Mr C did have alternative heating and was able to use the gym.  However, this would  
have been inconvenient.   
While Mr C says he only complained about the failures of communication,  I have to consider 
all the circumstances,  including the failures  in communication,  the time taken to deal with the 
Ref: DRN29156843matter and the costs  Mr C will have  incurred. Having done  so, I agree with the investigator 
that a total of £300 compensation is appropriate and is in line with awards made in similar 
circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Admiral Insurance Company Limited and require it to pay    
Mr C £300 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by its handling of his 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915684