K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr H complain about Places for People Homes  Limited.  They complain that 
Places for People didnt:
- tell them their mortgage lenders lending policy had changed;
- make it clear their loan with Places for People was linked to equity; and
- tell them theyd  have to pay for a valuation when  they repaid the loan.
Miss W has handled the complaint throughout. Miss W says she and Mr H have suffered 
financial loss and stress as a result of Places  for Peoples actions. 
background
In late 2008 Miss W and Mr H took out an equity loan with Places for People.  They  borrowed 
£50,000 over 25 years.  They  also arranged a capital repayment mortgage for around 
£85,000 with a mortgage lender. The mortgage  lender and Places  for People were working 
alongside each  other to provide different types  of funding in a scheme designed to help key-
workers get on the property ladder. 
In 2018 Miss W and Mr H applied for a further  advance with their mortgage  lender so they 
could repay  the equity  loan early. The rate of interest on the loan was soon to increase from 
1.75% to 3.75% per annum so they wanted  to remortgage and settle  the equity loan in full.
In late 2018 Miss W and Mr H contacted their lender but it said it wasnt willing  to give them 
a further advance. It said its lending policy had changed. It was now against its lending 
policy to consolidate  other debts onto residential  mortgages. Miss W and Mr H were 
unhappy about this. They complained to their mortgage lender. This complaint about the 
mortgage lenders  actions has been investigated  under a separate complaint  reference and 
is the subject  of another final decision. 
Miss W and Mr H have  also complained to Places for People. They  think Places  for People 
should have told them their lenders policy had changed. They  also dont think  it was clear  
that the amount needed to repay  their equity loan was linked to their house  price, or that 
theyd need to pay a valuation fee to settle  the loan. 
Places for People gave its final response  on 12 December 2018. It didnt think it could be 
held responsible for a change in another lenders  policy. It said this was something for Miss 
W and Mr H should complain to their lender about.  It thought the equity loan agreement  
entered into in 2008 had made it clear that the equity loan equated to 35% of their propertys 
value. It said Miss W and Mr H knew before they entered into the equity loan agreement  that  
theyd be responsible for paying for the cost of a valuation when the loan was repaid. 
In early 2019 Miss W and Mr H repaid the equity loan having managed  to remortgage 
elsewhere.
Miss W wasnt happy with Places  for Peoples  response and brought this complaint to us. 
Our investigator considered all the evidence but didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. 
She didnt  think Places for People could have been  expected to update Miss W and Mr H 
with changes to another  firms lending criteria. And she thought it was made reasonably 
clear in the loan documentation that the equity loan with Places for People was linked to 
Ref: DRN27025252equity, and that theyd be responsible for paying for a valuation fee to establish the value of 
the property at the point the loan was repaid.
Miss W disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in broad 
agreement with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss W and Mr H are unhappy that their mortgage  lender  wouldnt  agree to extend the 
amount of their mortgage loan so they could repay their equity loan. I can see why this a 
disappointment, and why it led them to question whether Places  for People  knew  that the 
lender had changed its lending policy. Further  if it had known, why hadnt  it told them about 
this sooner.
Places for People have sent us a copy of a newsletter it sent to Miss W and Mr H, and other  
customers with similar loans, in April 2018.  The newsletter reminds borrowers  that mortgage 
lenders can change their lending  policy. It suggests  that if Miss W and Mr H are considering  
changes to their mortgage,  then they should get in touch with their mortgage lender about  
this. 
Ive thought about whether Places for People  might have known that Miss W and Mr Hs 
mortgage lender  might  have changed  its lending policy.  I think its likely that Places  for 
People, that also has a broking arm and gives regulated mortgage advice, had become 
aware that this particular  lender had changed  its lending policy. And I think  its reasonable 
that Places for People then suggested  that customers  should get in touch with their 
mortgage lender  to talk about  any changes they might want to make. I dont think  it was 
Places for Peoples responsibility  to investigate the details of the changes in another lenders 
policies and to communicate these changes  to the mortgage lenders customers. 
Places for People encouraged Miss W and Mr H, and other customers  like them, to get in 
touch with their mortgage lender. It also warned customers not to assume that all changes 
they might  want to a mortgage would be approved. I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. It also offered specialist advice and support if people  had problems  getting  
mortgages through their existing lender. I think this also seems  fair.
Miss W and Mr H also say they didnt know their equity loan was linked to the value of their 
property. Ive looked at the documentation from the time the loan was sold. Ive also looked  
at the promotional material that was shared with Miss W and Mr H before they entered  into 
the scheme. Im satisfied  that the loan document and promotional leaflet explained that 
Places for People were making a loan available to Miss W and Mr H and that the amount 
that they would repay would be dependent on the value of their property in the future. 
The loan agreement  says:  
Places for People will lend you 35% of the value of the property. When  the loan comes to 
an end or is terminated,  we will take the same percentage share  of the property  at that time.
It goes on to explain:
Because we take a share in the property and house  prices tend to go up it is likely that you 
will repay more than you borrowed.
Ref: DRN27025253I appreciate that Miss W and Mr H wouldnt have  known in 2008  what  their property  would 
be worth  in the future.  Neither would Places for People. Thats  why Places  for People asked 
that a basic mortgage valuation should  be completed as part of the process to repay the 
equity loan in full. I think its reasonable that Places  for People asked for this to be carried 
out to establish what  35% of the propertys value was when Miss W and Mr H wanted to 
settle the equity  loan in full early, in 2019. I also think it was made clear in section 7 of the 
loan agreement that you will be asked to pay a valuation fee when your mortgage comes  to 
an end.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Emma Peters  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2702525