K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that TSB Bank plc didnt  raise a chargeback for disputed  payments taken 
from her account. 
background
Ms A had a current account with TSB. A number of payments were taken from her account 
by a credit  card company. So she tried to get a chargeback through  the bank. But TSB 
hadnt done anything.  And she wants a refund  of her payments.
TSB said Ms A had disputed a number  of payments. But she hadnt asked for a chargeback 
in relation to the credit  card payments.  TSB said it could only make  a chargeback if it fell 
within the confines of the visa regulations. And this case didnt fall within those confines.
It couldnt claim a chargeback for goods  or services  not received as the payments were to a 
credit card. And the payments to her credit card werent direct  debit recurring  transactions. 
So it was unable to claim a chargeback for payments thatd continued after an instruction 
had been cancelled.
Ms A wasnt satisfied with TSBs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see a payment had been made on 20 April for 
£26.79. But it was to her credit card. And that type of payment couldnt be claimed back  
under a chargeback. 
The other payments  were  also to her credit  card.  Under the chargeback rules payments to 
credit cards cant  be reclaimed as they arent  for goods or services. So she couldnt  ask TSB 
to reimburse Ms A.
Ms A didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A is unhappy payments were  taken from her TSB account by a credit card company. But 
she says TSB hasnt raised  a chargeback request to get the payments back.  
So Ive looked  very carefully at whats happened  to see if the bank has made a mistake. And 
if so what it needs  to do to put things right.
I can see Ms A has disputed a number  of payments taken from her account. Ive looked  at 
her statement and I can see payments to the credit card company beginning with £26.79  on 
20 April and ending with £40 on 18 July. No other payments were taken in the following 
months.
TSB said Ms A had disputed a number  of payments to other merchants. But it could only find 
a brief reference to the credit card company.  And it wasnt able to issue a chargeback for 
payments to a credit  card. 
Ref: DRN26610772The chargeback scheme  is a process intended  to resolve settlement disputes. It is normally  
used when something has gone wrong.  It might be that goods never arrived or were faulty. 
Or a customer cancelled a recurring payment  but it came out of the account anyway. The 
scheme would  normally  expect to see evidence the person had contacted the merchant to 
try and resolve the complaint  before  requesting a chargeback. 
In this complaint  Ms A refers to payments taken by the credit card company from her 
account. She says they werent authorised. But the payments werent  for goods or services. 
So TSB wouldnt be able to show Ms A hadnt  received  what  shed paid for. It would only be 
able to help if the payments had continued  after a re-occurring payment  instruction had been  
cancelled. But that wasnt the case.  
I realise Ms A will be disappointed with this outcome. But the chargeback rules are 
administered by the card issuer. And they are quite strict. In this case TSB wouldnt be able 
to issue a chargeback  request because the payments to the credit  card fell outside  of the 
schemes rules.
I hope Ms A is able to contact the credit card company and find out why the payments were 
taken from her bank account.  But the role of this service is to see if TSB has done anything 
wrong. And based  on what  Ive seen I cant say it has. So I wont be asking the bank to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2661077