K820x#13complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) trading as Norwich and 
Peterborough Building Society  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to them  when 
they took a mortgage and further  borrowing.   
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to the lender as YBS throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Mrs H had a mortgage  with YBS which was taken out in 1986 and it doesnt appear  she had 
PPI with this loan.  
In 1995, Mr and Mrs H applied for a further  secured loan with YBS of £8,000,  which was to 
be repaid over 20 years.  The application  was agreed and it was at this stage that PPI was 
set up to seemingly cover  Mrs H for both loans. 
Mr and Mrs H redeemed both loans in 1999 and then took out further borrowing. At that time 
they opted to also have  PPI to protect the further  borrowing.  Again, this was in Mrs Hs name  
only. 
Mr and Mrs H say the PPI was added without their consent on both occasions.  YBS no 
longer has a copy of the mortgage or PPI application forms from the 1995 sale. And I dont 
think this is unreasonable considering the sale was around 24 years  ago. But it has given me 
a sample PPI application form it says wouldve been in use at the time. I think its likely this 
represents what Mr and Mrs H wouldve seen when they applied  for the PPI. 
This was a separate form to the mortgage  application.  So I think  it wouldve been clear the 
PPI was a separate product. The sample application  also gave an outline of the policy  itself,  
including the eligibility  criteria, what  it covered  and some frequently asked questions. 
Looking at this, I think  its more likely YBS made  it clear Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out 
the PPI in 1995 and they chose to take it out. 
YBS has been able to give me a copy of the signed  mortgage application form from the 1999  
sale. This had a section  that gave a brief description  of the PPI and what it included.  It said 
to complete the section at the back of the application form if they wanted  to take advantage 
of the policy. And in my opinion, I think it was clear  they couldve left the section blank if they 
didnt want the cover. 
The completed PPI form from the back of the mortgage application is no longer available.  
YBS has said this is because it was sent to the insurance company who underwrote  the 
policy and it has since been  destroyed. This doesnt  sound unreasonable to me. But YBS 
has given me a sample form that was in use. 
Ref: DRN23863952This shows the PPI section was after where  Mr and Mrs H wouldve  signed to agree to the 
mortgage. So I think it was clear this was a standalone product. It required Mr and Mrs H to 
select who would be covered under the policy and to sign if they agreed  to take it out.  
Having considered everything  available to me, I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs H 
consented to take out the policy, knowing they didnt have  to take it. 
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H on either occasion,  so it didnt have to make 
sure the policies were  right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs H the information 
they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them. 
 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of each sale it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs H says she had 6 months of sick pay available to her on both occasions plus a small 
amount of savings. But the policy couldve covered  her for up to 12 months per claim if she 
was made  redundant. And if she was sick or had an accident, the policy would cover her for 
up to 24 months. And that wouldve been in addition to her sick pay. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs H off taking out the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Ref: DRN23863953But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2386395