K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of Mrs Bs estate that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed transactions  to 
occur on Mrs Bs account which they shouldnt have authorised. 
Background
Mr B complains that Mrs Bs estate is short by £40,000 and in particular there are three 
transactions which took place in December 2015 which he doesnt think  Mrs B authorised.  
He believes she was manipulated  or scammed into making the payments. 
Mr B believes that an individual, Ill call A, that Mrs B named in her will was manipulating her, 
and persuaded  her to make these cash withdrawals  for his benefit. 
Mr B says that Mrs B was suffering from Dementia at the time of the withdrawals,  but Lloyds 
dispute this and claim that Mrs B was in good health  at the time and because  of this shed 
removed a previous  Power of Attorney. 
Mr B has also questioned why Mrs B took out a loan with Lloyds in February  2015  for 
£2,000. This was settled in December 2015.  
In November 2015 Mrs B wrote three  cheques to A two for £5,000  and one for just over 
£24,000. Neither of the £5,000 cheques were honoured due to the signature not matching 
Mrs B. Lloyds  have advised that they were  aware  Mrs B was having difficulty  in writing her 
signature and therefore  didnt  treat the mismatched signatures as an indicator of fraud. 
In December 2015 Mrs B visited her local branch  on three occasions, twice  to carry out 
£5,000 withdrawals and once to complete an inter account transfer for £2,000.  
Lloyds looked  at Mr Bs complaint. They didnt refund any of Mrs B money,  concluding that 
she authorised the account activity.
As Mr B didnt accept  this he contacted  our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. But he didnt uphold  it. Our 
investigator said that he was satisfied that Mrs B authorised  the transactions and he didnt 
think she believed she was scammed in giving the funds to A. Especially when taking into 
account the money Mrs B left A in her will. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. And therefore  its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for broadly  the same reasons. 
Sadly we cant get Mrs Bs testimony to determine  what happened.  And Mr B wasnt  present 
at the time of the disputed  withdrawals  so he himself cant  know  exactly  what happened 
either. Without Mrs Bs testimony Im afraid  there are a lot of unknowns surrounding the 
complaint and I must base my decision on what I think  is most  likely. 
Ref: DRN27237142For me to recommend  that Lloyds refund  any money  in this dispute  I need to be satisfied 
that Mrs B didnt authorise the transactions or that Mrs B was being scammed  and Lloyds 
should have done more  to identify this. Ill firstly  consider whether Mrs B authorised the 
transactions. 
Both Lloyds  and Mr B accept that Mrs B went into the branch  and carried  out the two £5,000  
withdrawals and the £2,000 inter account  transfer.  Mr B argues that Mrs B was suffering 
from dementia at the time and therefore  shouldnt have been allowed to carry out the 
withdrawals. But this doesnt change whether I think Mrs B authorised  the transactions.  At 
the time of the transactions the bank advise Mrs B didnt have a Power of Attorney in place. 
Ive seen in the banks  notes a mention that during one meeting Mrs B appeared confused 
and was potentially  vulnerable  but I dont think this is sufficient for Lloyds to have put in 
place additional  measures or stop Mrs B accessing  her funds. And Im satisfied that on 
balance Mrs B authorised  all three transactions. 
Ive also considered the loan that Mrs B took out and the cheque paid to A in November 
2015 for just over £24,000. Ive seen  a copy of the loan agreement and the cheque. On both 
documents I can see Mrs Bs signature.  For the reasons Ive explained above Ive no reason 
to think that Mrs B didnt  take out the loan or authorise the cheque.  I say this because Mrs B 
didnt question the payments at the time or subsequently so on balance, without evidence to 
suggest otherwise,  I have  to conclude she authorised them. 
Ive moved on to considering whether Mrs B was manipulated into making the payments, 
and if so should Lloyds have done  more to prevent the withdrawals. 
Ill consider the £2,000 inter account transfer first  this transfer went  to one of Mrs Bs own 
accounts and is therefore part of Mrs Bs estate. I cant  see any benefit A or anyone  else 
would have gained  from encouraging Mrs B to transfer these funds to her own savings 
account. And even  if I did I wouldnt be able to say Mrs Bs estate has lost out here.  
Mr B also argues that A manipulated  Mrs B into withdrawing £10,000 in two payments from 
her bank account  and therefore she was scammed into giving A the payments. Ive thought 
about Mr Bs argument here  and as Ive already explained Ive unfortunately got very little 
information to base my conclusions  on. But what I do know is that in November 2015 Mrs B 
wrote two cheques to A, both for £5,000.  And that these  cheques were both rejected 
because of the signature not matching Mrs Bs. Our investigator explored this with Lloyds  
and Im satisfied theyve provided  notes to show Mrs B struggled to write her signature  
accurately. And I accept  this as the most  likely explanation. 
Soon after the cheques  were rejected Mrs B visited her local branch to withdraw two 
separate amounts of £5,000. Mr B believes that Mrs B was manipulated into withdrawing 
these funds for As benefit.  But Im not satisfied this was the case. I say this because  its 
clear from the rejected  cheques issued in November  2015 Mrs B wanted to pay A £10,000. 
And clearly this had been something Mrs B was planning to do over an extended period of 
time, with the first cheque returned on the 24 November 2015  and the second  of the two 
£5,000 withdrawals taking place on the 21 December 2015. This suggests  that for almost a 
month Mrs B wanted to make these large payments to A. 
Mr Bs also shared that in January 2018, when Mrs B sadly  passed away,  she left a further 
£10,000 in her will to A. I find it surprising  that Mrs B would have done this if she had any 
suspicions that A was manipulating  or scamming her. 
Ref: DRN27237143Although Ive not seen any evidence that Mrs B was scammed, Ive gone  on to consider  
Lloyds actions here. Its clear that Mrs Bs account  activity in late 2015 was unusual  and Id 
expect Lloyds to have asked some  questions here about Mrs Bs reasons  for withdrawing 
the two £5,000 transactions. And Im satisfied that this is something they did, although the 
response they received from Mrs B indicated that this wasnt  something she was prepared to 
discuss. I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to do anything further here  and for the reasons 
Ive already explained even if they had asked  further  questions, considering I dont have  
Mrs Bs testimony and on balance I dont  think shes been scammed,  Im satisfied this 
wouldnt have made any difference.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr B but for the reasons Ive explained above I wont  be 
asking Lloyds to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2723714