K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc turned down his credit card application,  and wont 
give a satisfactory explanation  for why the application failed.
background
Mr H applied for a credit  card with Santander  and his application  was turned down. Mr H 
wanted to understand why the application  had failed. He had an excellent credit  score and 
managed his finances well, so he was concerned  that Santander might have based its 
decision on his age, or on information that wasnt accurate. 
Santander gave  a general explanation for its decision, but wasnt  willing to provide specific  
details. Mr H considered  this was unfair.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Santanders explanation for why the application had failed was satisfactory, and he didnt  
consider the bank had to provide more specific details. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H manages  his finances well, and had other Santander accounts. So I can understand 
his surprise and disappointment when his credit card application failed. I can also appreciate  
why he would want to understand  the exact reasons behind  Santanders  decision.
But as the adjudicator has explained,  the basis on which a bank chooses to offer credit  is a 
commercial matter for the business. This service cannot interfere with the banks decision, 
and we cant compel it to disclose  its lending criteria  either  because  thats commercially 
sensitive information.  
But I think Mr Hs main cause for complaint is that Santander wont tell him the specific 
reasons for its decision. Again, however, the bank isnt obliged to do so. The relevant part of 
the Lending Code says:
Registered Firms will ensure that their customers:
d. Are aware of the high level basis on which the Firm will make  its decision to lend to them. 
If the customers application is declined the main reason for this will be provided,  if 
requested by the customer.
Santander sent Mr H a text to say that it couldnt  offer him the credit card. When he called 
the bank to query this, it said it would check the reason for the decision. Mr H was told he 
hadnt met the banks internal affordability  assessment.  
Ref: DRN20287122So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Santander  complied with its obligations under the 
Lending Code,  because it gave Mr H the main  reason for its decision when he asked for it. 
Im not persuaded that Santander needs  to do anything  else.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Santander didnt  apply  its lending criteria fairly to Mr H. So I 
cant ask it to reconsider its decision not to offer him the credit card.
Overall, I dont  find that Santander has acted incorrectly on this occasion, so there  are no 
reasonable grounds on which I can uphold Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2028712