K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with Legal & General Insurance Limiteds handling of claim for storm 
damage he made under his buildings insurance  policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2019. I explained I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
In November 2018, Mr M says after a night of stormy weather,  his wife discovered  water
coming from the roof, into one of the back bedrooms  in their house. He contacted  L&G, who
confirmed storm conditions had occurred the night  before, and arranged for a surveyor  to
come out and inspect  the roof. However, as Mr M was worried about the roof continuing to
let water in, he arranged for a local roofing company to come out and carry out any short  
term repairs.
Both the emergency  roofer and surveyor instructed by L&G visited Mr Ms home  a couple of
days later.  The emergency roofer said Mr M ought  to contact the company who had installed
fibreglass roofs to the Dorma roof earlier that summer, as there was no obvious sign of
storm damage to the exterior of the roof which would be the cause of water  coming  into the
property. They went on to say that some  of the roof tiles has shifted back and the felt had
failed.
When L&Gs  surveyor assessed the roof, they also said they couldnt find any evidence of
storm damage. They went on to say they thought the most likely cause of the water ingress
was as a result of the mixing of the fibreglass or driving rain ingressing where the tiles abut
the flat roof.
L&G declined Mr Ms claim. It said there  was no evidence of storm damage  and, there  was
no evidence of an insurable event having taken place.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and referred  his complaint to this service. One of our
investigators looked into what happened. She said storm  conditions  were present. So, she
needed to decide if the damage was consistent with what shed expect to see from a storm,
and if the storm was the main cause of the damage. She concluded the external damage
was likely as a result of poor workmanship, but the internal damage  was likely as a result of
storm damage. She recommended what  she thought  L&G needed to do to put things right.
Mr M accepted our investigators  opinion, but L&G didnt. So, the matter  has been  referred  to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to decide are whether L&G is entitled to decline Mr Ms claim under the
Ref: DRN20532752policy, and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage caused  by a storm is mentioned in Mr Ms policy. The policy  defines storm
conditions as wind  speeds with gusts  of at least 47mph/75kmh  or torrential rainfall  at a rate
of at least 25mm/1 inch an hour. Ive seen weather reports which show there were winds
in excess of 47mph  the day before the damage  was discovered. Im satisfied this alone
would bring the weather at the time within the definition of a storm, based on wind speed
alone.
As such Ive gone on to consider two further  questions:
1) is the damage  claimed  for consistent  with what we generally see as storm damage?
2) were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The answer to both questions would need to be yes for me to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Ive considered whether the damage was consistent  with the type of damage a storm
typically causes. The surveyors report noted  there was damage  internally, which  might  be
consistent with water ingress  following a storm. However, it said there wasnt  any damage
externally consistent  with what would be expected  following  storm conditions.  I think,  for the
answer to question one in respect  of the exterior of the roof, the answer is no.
Finally, Ive considered  whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
Based on the information Ive been provided  with, I cant  see the evidence from the experts
shows there was external  damage where  the storm conditions were the main cause of the
damage Mr M claimed for.
I note the surveyors  comment  that the water ingress was most likely as a result of the
mixing of the fibreglass or driving  rain ingressing where the tiles abut the flat roof.
Overall, the surveyors view was that the water entered the property not as a result  of
damage caused by a storm. He thought the most likely reason for water entering the
property was as a result of the works carried out to the roof a few months before.
The surveyors findings were that there was no external evidence  of storm damage to the
roof and, as a result, they didnt consider storm conditions were the main cause of internal
damage. Mr M hasnt  provided any evidence to dispute this. And, on this basis  of the
evidence from the experts, I think the answer to question  two is no. It follows  I dont feel able
to say L&G acted  unfairly  in declining Mr Ms claim.
In addition to this, Ive considered whether Mr M could have claimed  under  the accidental
damage section of his building  insurance.  However, while he has accidental damage cover,
this section of the policy  excludes water entering  the property. So, I dont think Mr M would
have been able to claim under this section  of his policy.
I said that, based on the available evidence and information, I wasnt  intending to direct  L&G 
to take any further  action  following Mr Ms claim.  I asked both parties  to send me any further 
comments and information  they might  want  me to consider before I reached a final decision.
L&G accepted my provisional decision.  Mr M said he was disappointed  that Id reached a 
different view to our investigator, but didnt provide any further  evidence  for me to consider.  
Ref: DRN20532753my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr M is disappointed by the conclusions I outlined in my provisional decision. And 
Im sorry  for that. However, as neither side provided  me with any further  comments  or 
information to consider,  I dont see any reason to depart from the conclusions Ive already 
outlined. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Legal  & General Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2053275