K821x#15complaint
Mrs T and Mr C say Bank of Scotland plc (when it was trading as Leeds Permanent Building  
Society and later when  it was trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mrs T and Mr C took out PPI whilst arranging a mortgage that started  in 1992. The policy  
protected their mortgage repayments  if they were unable to work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
In 2000 Mrs T and Mr C took out a new mortgage and a PPI policy  that covered just Mr C in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.   
Our adjudicator looked at what wed been  told about  the circumstances of both PPI sales.  
He felt that there wasnt enough evidence to be able to say that the policies were mis-sold to 
Mrs T and Mr C. On balance, our adjudicator felt that Mrs T and Mr C had probably agreed 
to have PPI both times, knowing  it was optional. And looking at the likely policy terms that 
applied when they took out each policy, he thought they couldve benefitted from the main  
policy terms they couldve expected to be able to claim under. Overall, our adjudicator  didnt 
feel this was a complaint  we should  uphold, for either of the sales of PPI. 
Mrs T and Mr C disagreed. They mainly say that they only took out PPI with their first 
mortgage in 1992 as they were told they had to have it  even though Mr C had a health  
condition that meant  hed had to take days off work  from time to time. And they told us they 
didnt know that theyd been  sold a second  PPI policy  with their next mortgage in 2000.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold part of this 
complaint.
Here are some of the main things I said. 
what happened  when Bank of Scotland (trading  as Leeds Permanent Building 
Society) sold PPI to Mrs T and Mr C in 1992
Theres limited  information available about this sale  so I dont know  what, if anything,  was 
discussed about the PPI when Mrs T and Mr C arranged their mortgage and this policy. 
Bank of Scotland cant say if they were recommended to buy PPI. If a financial business 
makes a recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover  
it recommends is suitable, as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. So, 
to be as fair as possible to Mrs T and Mr C, as its not known how or when PPI was sold to 
them, Bank of Scotland has looked at this complaint on the basis  that it advised them to take 
out PPI with this mortgage. I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint given the 
lack of paperwork and other information  showing how PPI was sold to Mrs T and Mr C. And 
so this is also the approach Ive taken.
Ref: DRN20318202Looking at the complaint this way imposes extra obligations on the lender. As an advised  
sale, the seller had to take reasonable steps  to ensure that a policy  it recommended to 
buyers was suitable  for their needs.
So I think its reasonable to expect that Mrs T and Mr C shouldve been  asked questions 
about their particular circumstances, including their health, to check if they were eligible for 
the cover  and able to take full advantage of the main benefits it offered. 
When they first complained to us, Mrs T and Mr C told us about a pre-existing medical 
condition that affected Mr C at the time of the sale. They  said that his condition meant he 
was ill quite a lot, especially when his condition flared  up, and it had led to him taking time off 
work. They told us also that hed had various  GP and specialist visits/treatment for the 
symptoms. I havent seen any medical  records  to support what  theyve said, or show me 
when the problem was first identified, but I think what theyve told us is likely to be right.
Bank of Scotland has provided  us with a copy of the policy document it says wouldve 
applied when Mrs T and Mr C signed  up to the PPI. This policy  provided cover  for up to 
12 months in the event  of disability and unemployment. After  so long, none of the paperwork 
from the time is now available so I dont know what,  if anything   was discussed about  Mr Cs 
health or what information Mrs T and Mr C were given about  the policy. But Bank of Scotland 
hasnt in my view shown  that it did enough to point out to Mrs T and Mr C a significant 
feature of the policy  specifically, the impact an ongoing health  problem would have on the 
cover they would have  for Mr C under the policy. 
The policy document says that disability claims are excluded in the following circumstances: 
during the twelve months immediately after the policy begins caused by any physical or 
mental defect of infirmity for which you have received medical treatment or advice during the 
twelve months immediately before the date the policy begins
Under the policy, the monthly benefit  would be payable  after the first 30 days  off work.
So, looking  at the policy wording and taking into account what Ive been told about  Mr Cs 
condition, I think that Halifaxs recommendation to take out the policy  wasnt suitable. 
I say this because  if Mr C had to take more than 30 consecutive days  off work because of 
his condition, during the first year after hed taken out this policy,  then he wouldnt have been 
able to make  a disability  claim. 
Based on all the information Ive seen it looks to me as if it was reasonable for Mr C to have 
been concerned  that his condition might  affect  him being able to work, possibly for a lengthy 
period  and if it did, this policy  wording wouldve restricted his ability  to claim.  His condition 
seriously risked impairing his mental and physical health. Ive taken into account the effects  
his condition mightve had on his ability to do his job, which  involved working in potentially  
dangerous conditions. And I think its completely understandable  that Mr C mightve worried 
that his absences from work couldve  been for more than a month at a time, even if he hadnt 
ever had to take this long off work before, given the lifelong and potentially serious 
consequences of his condition. 
Bank of Scotland cant show me how, if at all, it drew Mrs T and Mr Cs attention to the fact 
that Mr Cs medical condition affected  his ability to claim for absence  from work due to his 
condition for the first year of their mortgage.
Ref: DRN20318203I think that if theyd fully understood the effects of the pre-existing medical condition 
exclusion for Mr C they wouldnt have felt the policy offered them a sufficient worthwhile 
benefit overall.
Ive taken into account that, as far as I can see, Mrs T and Mr C wouldnt have been affected 
by this limitation after their policy had been running for 12 months. And they werent affected 
by any of the other conditions that mightve  limited the policys  main benefits  if theyd tried to 
claim. Nor does Mrs T seem to have had any relevant health issues  at that time. 
But I still think they lost out as a result of Bank of Scotlands failings in this case, because 
they paid for a policy that I dont think theyd  have taken out if theyd been properly informed. 
And as Ive said Halifax hasnt shown me that it sufficiently drew this important policy  term to 
the attention of Mrs T and Mr C when they were  deciding whether to apply for the cover, 
I dont need to deal with the other issues theyve raised about  the sale.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, my provisional decision is to uphold this part of 
the complaint  and tell Bank  of Scotland it should take steps  to put things right.
what happened  when Bank of Scotland plc (by then trading as Halifax)  sold PPI to 
Mrs T and Mr C in 2000
Mrs T and Mr Cs main  complaint about  this sale is that they dont recall ever having a phone  
call about taking out PPI and they didnt know they were  sold this policy.  They  told us that if 
theyd been aware  of this, they couldve made a claim on the policy  when Mr C later suffered 
an injury.  
But Ive decided not to uphold Mrs T and Mr Cs complaint about how they were  sold PPI in 
2000. Ill explain my reasons.
Looking at Mrs T and Mr Cs complaint  on the basis that there was a discussion with a 
Halifax advisor, who advised them to take out the PPI - whether or not this was over the 
phone as Halifax says - gives their complaint the best chance of success.  So again I think  
thats the fairest way to look at their complaint  even if they mightve forgotten ever 
discussing PPI. 
Its understandable  that Mrs T and Mr C mightnt be able to remember  in detail everything 
that happened when they arranged their mortgage.  This was a long time ago and I cant 
safely rely only on what they say now. I have  to decide what I think is most  likely taking into 
account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
I think Halifax made Mrs T and Mr C aware  that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
have it for Mr C. I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application headed 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance. It says here: We recommend that you consider our 
insurance against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment and that if you do not 
take this type of insurance you fully understand the risks involved. 
Mr Cs details are filled in where it says Name  of Insured person(s)  and hes answered 
questions to check that he was eligible for and able to benefit  from having the policy.
And Mrs T and Mr C have both signed  the mortgage  application  at the end confirming that 
the information theyve given in their application  is correct. 
Ref: DRN20318204Mr C also had to complete a separate PPI application to get the policy.  
I think the wording and layout of the paperwork makes it clear  that Mrs T and Mr C were  
made aware  that it was up to them to choose  if they wanted to take out the policy with their 
mortgage  and that they opted to do this, for Mr C only, at the time.
Halifax says it recommended the policy.  So Ive checked to see whether it was right for 
Mrs T and Mr C.
Mr C was eligible for the PPI policy. Mr C told us he was entitled  to 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But even  if thats right,  if Mr C made a successful accident or 
sickness claim the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and in full for 
significantly longer  - up to 24 months per claim. This couldve been useful if he had extra 
costs as a result of being too ill or disabled to work.    
And PPI wouldve covered him if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. The 
policy provided long term protection as Mr C couldve made repeated  claims on it. 
Although Mrs T and Mr C also mentioned that they had savings, it looks  like these  were  
probably mostly put towards the costs of buying  their new home. And I dont know if they 
couldve always depended on having  savings if Mr C had been unable  to work in the long 
term. Relying on someone  else to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Looking at the information Ive got, it appears that Mr C was the main earner. So I can see 
how it made sense to take out the cover for him. They were borrowing a large  sum over a 
long period, secured against  their home.  And overall, I think the policy was suitable for 
Mrs T and Mr C, taking  into account  what theyve told us about their situation  at the time.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs T and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But under the terms of this policy it doesnt appear that it wouldve 
been difficult for Mr C to make a claim for absence  from work due to his pre-existing medical 
condition. He wasnt affected by any of the main  things this policy didnt cover.  So, I dont 
think its likely that being told more information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
wouldve affected Mrs T and Mr Cs decision  to take it out. 
Ref: DRN20318205In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  that theres no mention  of Mr Cs pre-
existing medical condition on the PPI application  Ive seen. But this form is undated   and its 
not clear to me if the signature page is the correct one. I dont know  who filled in the form, or 
whether Mrs T and Mr C had a chance  to check all the information  on it. So I dont  attach too 
much weight or significance to this document. 
But, even  if this isnt the actual form they completed, I think its likely  that they wouldve had 
to complete a similar form - so it probably wouldve shown the monthly  premium  for the PPI. 
So they wouldve  been aware  of this extra cost when they signed up for the policy.  And it 
seems Mrs T and Mr C were happy to pay for the cover they wanted at the time and it 
doesnt seem to have  caused them any money problems. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs T and Mr C still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr C even if theyd been 
better informed as the policy  gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
Mrs T and Mr C told us that they kept paying  for PPI, but didnt  make  a claim on the 
insurance, when  Mr C was unable to work. This information doesnt affect my decision.  But 
he may wish to approach  the insurer to see if it would be prepared  to accept and consider a 
retrospective claim.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither Mrs T nor Mr C wanted to add anything further in response to what Id said. 
Bank of Scotland told us that it acce pted what Id said in my provisional decision - 
including my recommendation to uphold the compl aint made in relation to the sale of the 
1992 PPI policy. It said it was now prepared to make an offer to settle the complaint along 
the lines Id suggested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, after taking into account  everything thats been said in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN20318206putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should put Mrs T and Mr C in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out the first PPI policy in 1992. So it should:
Pay Mrs T and Mr C the amount  they paid each month for that PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.  
If Mrs T and Mr C made a successful claim under that PPI policy,  Bank  of Scotland plc 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bank  of Scotland plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Bank of Scotland plc must  give Mrs T and Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Bank  of Scotland plc to pay Mrs T and Mr C as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2031820