K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Miss B says she couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed five short-term loans for Miss B between May 2017 and November 2017. 
The loans ranged from £50 to £400 and were due to be repaid over between one and two 
monthly instalments.  Miss B topped-up her fourth  loan which Ive labelled as loan no. 4a. 
This is where she took out further  borrowing under  the same  agreement,  before  paying back  
the initial amount  borrowed. Ive set out a summary  of lending below. 
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount (£)no. of 
instalments duehighest  monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 17/05/2017 100 1 130
2 14/06/2017 50 1 65
3 31/07/2017 250 2 306
4 14/09/2017 100 1 117
4a  (top-up) 28/09/2017 75 (top up) 2 214
5 26/11/2017 400 2 490
One of our adjudicators has looked into Miss Bs complaint  already  and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She felt the checks QuickQuid carried out on loans 1 and 2 
were proportionate, but thought that the checks carried  out from loan 3 onwards (including  
the top-up  on loan 4) werent. And she thought that had QuickQuid  carried  out proportionate 
checks, it wouldve  seen  that loan 3 and the top-up on loan 4 (4a) wouldve been 
unaffordable for Miss B and it would not have agreed to them.  
After an initial look at the case, I notified QuickQuid that having carried  out a brief review, it 
was my current  intention to uphold loan 4 as well as loan 3 and 4a, and gave my reasons 
why. I asked it to provide  any further comments it wanted me to consider in relation to this. 
Miss B provided no response to the initial view. QuickQuid responded further, highlighting its 
original argument  that - it felt that since March  2015 (which was before Miss B took out her 
loans); it had implemented an affordability assessment that was consistent with the 
FCA Handbook. And its said that because of this, it was unable  to agree that it lent 
irresponsibly lent to Miss B.
As no agreements been  reached at this stage,  the case has been passed to me for a 
decision. And as loans  1  2 no longer seem to be in dispute, my decision will focus on the 
remaining loans  loans  3  5 (including  the top-up on loan 4). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Miss B borrowed from 
QuickQuid. Its regulations for lenders are set out in its consumer  credit  sourcebook  
(generally referred to as CONC). At the time QuickQuid lent to Miss B, these regulations  
Ref: DRN25866522required lenders  to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability  to meet  
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  - 
CONC 5.3.1(2). 
CONC 5.3.1(7) defined  sustainable as being able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. And explains that this means  borrowers should be able to make their repayments 
on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to meet  these 
repayments. 
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not QuickQuid did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Miss Bs loan applications. And if it didnt, had it carried out further  checks, 
whether it wouldve realised these loans may have been unaffordable for her.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I dont think  the checks 
QuickQuid carried out at the time of Miss Bs applications for loans 3 - 5 were  proportionate. 
And I think that had it carried  out proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded that loans  3, 4 
and the top-up on loan 4 (loan 4a) wouldve been unaffordable for Miss B, and wouldnt have 
agreed to them.
So Im upholding  Miss B complaint for the same  reasons as our adjudicator did, and 
directing QuickQuid to put things right in the way she recommended (with the addition of 
loan 4). I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for QuickQuid, but I hope my 
explanation will make it clear as to how and why Ive reached  this conclusion.  
QuickQuid says it carried out proportionate  checks when it agreed all of Miss Bs loan 
applications. Its said that prior to granting these  loans  to Miss B, it performed affordability 
and creditworthiness  assessments  that were proportionate to the type and amount of the 
loans. 
Its said that as well as using verified  information it obtained from Miss B, it also considered 
her past repayment  history, credit-scoring information from Credit Reference  Agencies,  plus 
various other  third party reports. And that having  done so, her loans were approved as she 
satisfied its lending criteria at the time. 
Along with its earlier submissions, QuickQuids provided a document  setting out in general 
terms, how its affordability assessments  worked  when it approved these loans. And has said 
that (as of 1 March 2015), all loan offers now meet the FCA rate cap and affordability rules.  
In short  QuickQuid seems  to be saying that because it reviewed its processes, and 
incorporated regulatory changes as it was required  to by the FCA; that all loans  for all 
customers, granted from 1 March 2015 onwards,  were granted  responsibly. And that 
therefore, its checks were always proportionate.
But it doesnt follow that a firm cant have treated a customer unfairly, simply because its 
been authorised  and is regulated by the FCA. The FCA isnt prescriptive about  what  checks 
a lender should carry out. As Ive summarised  above, it gives examples  in CONC about what  
might be appropriate.  But a lender should still bear in mind both the consumers 
circumstances and the particulars of the loan in question at the time of its assessment.
And I cant see how doing the same checks each and every time, is proportionate   
whatever the circumstances  of the potential  borrower or the particulars of the loan being 
granted. In effect, QuickQuid is asking me to pre-judge the complaint on the basis  of its 
Ref: DRN25866523current lending model, which  Im not prepared to do. Not least because  there  are also other 
considerations Im required to take into account  when  deciding complaints.
 
DISP 3.6.1R says The Ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in 
his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
So, Im required to consider more  than just the relevant rules  and guidance.  I must take 
these into account.  But Ill do so in considering the broader question of whether QuickQuid 
treated Miss B fairly and reasonably.  With this in mind, Ive considered each loan individually 
and set out my current findings about the proportionality of the checks below.
loan 3
When Miss B took out loan 3 for £250,  shed been borrowing from QuickQuid for around two 
months. And this was the highest amount shed borrowed to date.  The loan was repayable 
over two monthly instalments, the highest  of which was around £306.
At the time Miss B applied for loan 3, QuickQuid recorded her monthly income as £1,307 
and her total monthly living  expenses as £575. It broke down these expenses into monthly  
figures of - £350  for housing, £75 for utilities, £50 for transport, £75 for food, and £0 for her 
regular credit commitments. It also had a section labelled other where  it recorded  a monthly 
figure of £25.
 
Given both the size of loan 3, and the highest monthly repayment due in relation to Miss Bs 
income, I think QuickQuid needed to gain an understanding of Miss Bs income and 
outgoings, including her monthly living  costs,  as well as her regular and short-term  credit 
commitments. 
Had it done so, I think  it wouldve seen that Miss B had three other short-term term loans 
outstanding with monthly repayments totalling approximately  £412. Which,  when deducted  
from her monthly income of £1,307, along with the £575 of regular monthly  expenditure 
QuickQuid had recorded, wouldve left Miss B with around just £320  from which  to meet  her 
monthly repayments.
Considering that the highest  monthly repayment  for loan 3 was £306, although its possible 
Miss B may have had a small  sum of money  left over after meeting all of her current monthly 
commitments - Im not persuaded  that proportionate  checks wouldve suggested to 
QuickQuid, that the amount leftover was sufficient for her to be able to repay this loan in a 
sustainable manner.  So as a responsible lender, I dont  think  QuickQuid wouldve agreed to 
this loan knowing this.    
loan 4
Miss B repaid loan 3 on 4 September  2017, and took out loan 4 just ten days later. Loan 4 
was for £100  and was due to be repaid in one instalment of £117. And Miss B again reported 
£1,300 a month in income, and around £575 in monthly outgoings. As this was now Miss Bs 
fourth loan in as many  months, I think that by this point, QuickQuid shouldve  continued 
looking into whether  Miss B owed any monies to any other  short-term  lenders around this 
time, in addition to the outgoings it had recorded. 
Ref: DRN25866524Had it done so, I think  it wouldve seen that Miss B had over £700 due in short-term loan 
repayments the month after she took out loan 4. Which when deducted from her monthly 
income of around  £1,300, along with the monthly expenditure figure shed disclosed of £575, 
wouldve meant she was left with around  just £25 a month in disposable monthly income, 
and therefore  was not in a position  to commit to any further monthly repayments at this time. 
And therefore, I dont  think  it would  have lent to her knowing this. 
loan 4 top-up
The top up on loan 4 was taken out just two weeks after the initial loan, and the monthly 
income and expenditure figures  Miss B declared  at this time remained the same. However,  
given the length of Miss Bs lending  relationship  with QuickQuid, by this point, I think  
QuickQuid shouldve now been carrying out a full review of Miss Bs financial circumstances, 
to verify not only all of her monthly  outgoings including short- term credit,  but also to verify 
her monthly income.
Had it done so, it wouldve  seen that Miss Bs monthly living  costs were  in the region of 
£440, and her total monthly credit  commitments  across both regular and short -term credit,  
totalled around £630. Taking her total outgoings  to around £1,071 a month.
But a full review  of Miss Bs circumstances wouldve also shown QuickQuid that Miss Bs 
monthly income at this time was only around  £1,079 a month. And it wouldve therefore seen 
that when her total monthly outgoings were deducted from this income,  she wouldve been 
left with almost no disposable  income. And therefore, was not in a position to commit to any 
further credit  commitments  at this time.  So as a responsible lender, I dont think  QuickQuid 
wouldve approved  the top-up on loan 4, knowing  this. 
loan 5
Miss B repaid loan 4 (including the top-up on this loan) on 10 November 2017. And her 
application for loan 5 was approved on 26 November 2017, where QuickQuid agreed a £400 
loan, repayable over two monthly instalments, the highest of which was around £490.  As I 
above, I think by now,  considering both the number of loans taken, and the size of this loan, 
QuickQuid shouldve continued to build a full picture of Miss B financial circumstances, and 
verified the information it was given from this point  on. 
However, despite several requests by the adjudicator  for Miss B to provide further evidence, 
to demonstrate what her income and outgoings were  from around the time she took out 
loan 5, this information has not been  forthcoming.  So while I appreciate  Miss B feels  that 
QuickQuid shouldve realised this loan wouldve been unaffordable for her, I dont have 
sufficient information  to demonstrate that this wouldve been  the case  at this time. 
So when assessing the affordability  of this loan for Miss B, I dont have much  else to rely on, 
other than the figures it seems Miss B disclosed to QuickQuid  when she applied. And these 
figures seem to suggest that at the time of her application, shed declared a net monthly 
income of around  £1,200 a month, and total monthly  outgoings again of around £575. So 
based on these  figures,  it wouldve appeared to QuickQuid  that Miss B had a monthly  
disposable income in the region of £625  at the time she applied  for loan 5.
 
Given that the highest monthly repayment on this loan was £490  (and while a considerable 
amount), based  on the evidence I have,  it would seem that Miss B had sufficient  disposable 
income to meet the repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. So based  on the 
Ref: DRN25866525evidence I have, it would appear that this loan was affordable  for Miss B, and therefore  I 
dont think QuickQuid was wrong  in approving her application.
In summary,  I think proportionate checks wouldve  shown QuickQuid that loan 3, loan 4, and 
the top-up  on loan 4 (4a) wouldve been  unaffordable for Miss B, and it wouldnt have agreed 
to them.  
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to loans 3, 4 or 4a 
for Miss B. So it needs to refund all of the interest  and charges Miss B paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  between July 2017  and 
September 2017, including  the top up on the July 2017 loan
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Miss Bs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Miss B still owes some of the principal balance  she borrowed on any of these loans, 
QuickQuid may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. To be clear, that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but should 
take account of any repayments Miss B has made  towards these loans as though they were 
applied against  the principal sum borrowed.
If QuickQuid no longer owns this debt,  it needs  to buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Miss B. If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any principal balance outstanding, there is still a 
sum outstanding, a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should be arranged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.  
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25866526
Ref: DRN2586652