K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss C took out a PPI policy for her mortgage  in 1990. Miss C paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Miss C, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold   Ill 
explain why.
Halifax dont have the original documents from the sale,  which  is unsurprising given  just how 
long ago it was, and given that the policy has long since finished. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations, Halifax were required to not hold onto such information  for so long. 
Meanwhile, Miss C doesnt  remember choosing PPI, which  I also think is understandable 
given how much time has passed,  and since buying  insurance isnt often memorable. Ive 
thought carefully  about whats most  likely to have  happened based on the limited information 
I have.
It looks like the policy was sold some  months after the mortgage had already been  approved  
and started. So it seems  Miss C wouldve known she didnt have to take out PPI to get 
approved for her mortgage.  It would  have been  a very serious failing for Halifax to have 
added the policy without Miss Cs permission, but Ive got no evidence which shows thats 
what Halifax did, and Ive not seen any wider problems with its sales  process from the time. 
So I dont  think I can fairly conclude thats what Halifax did. I think  its more likely that Miss C 
wouldve been aware she had a choice  about buying PPI, and chose to take it at the time  
even if, understandably,  she doesnt remember doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  gave Miss C personalised advice to take PPI or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did, so to be fair to Miss C Ive assumed Halifax did 
advise her. That means it had to check the policy was right for her  and based on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think it was. For example, Miss C wouldnt  have  
been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.  And it looks  like it 
wouldve been affordable for her, costing just £6 a month  at the time of the sale.
Ref: DRN20167842Miss C said she had some good  sick pay, but the PPI covered her for longer  and paid out on 
top  it wouldve been especially useful when her sick pay switched to just half pay, which 
wouldve been a very serious drop in income.  Miss C also had some savings, though  those 
also wont have lasted  that long, since if something went  wrong  she wouldve needed them  
for other living costs  too and not just the mortgage.  And the PPI meant Miss C could protect  
her savings and use them  for other things. She had another insurance policy too, but this 
covered different things to the PPI. Lastly, I understand Miss Cs family may have been  
willing to help, but the mortgage was her sole responsibility, and I dont think  it wouldve 
been suitable for Halifax to have advised her to rely on other people to pay it. Further,  there  
was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when needed, and this policy  meant Miss C 
wouldnt have to ask her family to pay her mortgage.  Its worth bearing in mind that if Miss C 
fell behind on her mortgage, she risked  losing her home. Overall, I think the PPI couldve 
really been useful for her in protecting her home  and giving some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Miss C about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  she wasnt affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something went  wrong. It 
looks like the PPI wouldve been affordable, and if Miss C had needed to claim it wouldve 
paid out a lot more  than what she paid for it. Then  if her circumstances changed,  Miss C 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  So I dont think  that better information was likely  
to have put Miss C off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2016784