K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
November 2002.  Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs C says she wasnt made aware of PPI being  added to her account and wouldve 
declined it if given the option,  or if shed known that Bank of Scotland wouldve  got 
commission from selling it to her. 
I cant know what was discussed between Bank  of Scotland and Mrs C at the time PPI was 
sold. So, as well as taking  into account  what Mrs C recalls, Ive also looked at the 
paperwork from the time of sale. 
Bank of Scotland  has sent in a copy of Mrs Cs credit card application form. On it, theres a 
section about  PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select the box saying they wanted 
it. The box couldve been left blank if they didnt  want PPI. There  is a cross in the box on 
Mrs Cs application selecting  PPI. She signed  the application form.  So, I think it more  likely 
that Mrs C opted to take PPI, completing the paperwork and signing the form to say she 
wanted it. I can understand why she may not remember that now, given how much time has 
passed. I can see that she didnt select the box to take card cover,  so I think  she wouldve 
likely understood that these were both optional insurances, and she selected the cover she 
wanted.
Bank of Scotland  recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check that it was suitable 
for her. It also had to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
she could decide  for herself if the PPI was right for her and she wanted  to buy it. 
Mrs C said that the adjudicators view was based on assumption. Where the information is 
either incomplete or contradictory,  as it is here,  I have to make a decision based  on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on the information  that is available.
Mrs C said she wouldve got around  three months worth of sick pay from work if she 
wasnt able to work. She said her family and friends  couldve  helped  with her repayments.  
She said she wouldve  been fine, in those circumstances, and didnt need PPI. Based on 
what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I cant see that PPI was unsuitable  for 
her needs.  She was eligible  to take out the policy and it appeared affordable. I cant  see 
that she was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The 
policy wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits,  allowing her to use these to meet her 
other household expenses. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. I 
accept that her family and friends  may have wanted to help with her repayments. But, help 
of this kind cant always be guaranteed  when the time comes, so I havent placed much  
reliance on this. Overall, I cant see that Mrs Cs other resources meant that the PPI 
Ref: DRN28868012wasnt suitable for her. I think it couldve  provided  her with valuable  protection  in her 
circumstances.
Mrs C says the information she was given about PPI wasnt clear.  Its possible the 
information Bank of Scotland  gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. The 
application form told her the cost of the PPI, so I think  she wouldve understood what  she 
had to pay for it. And it seems  like it would have  been useful for her, if something went 
wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Cs said but these  points dont change my decision.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt  have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland has agreed, as a goodwill  gesture, to pay back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI relating to the commission  it got. This has been  paid to Mrs C already. Like our 
adjudicator, I think this is a fair response and that Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to do 
anything more.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2886801