K820x#14complaint
Mr U says National Westminster Bank Plc  (NatWest)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr U bought the policy in 2006 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr U for accident, sickness,  and unemployment - subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £290.00 a month towards  Mr Us mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £14.85  a month.  
At the time,  Mr U was employed  as a construction site manager. He has told us he was 
entitled to at least three months full sick pay should he be unable to work.  Mr U was also 
entitled to a redundancy payment if he lost his job. Mr U also had around £3,500 in savings.
Mr U has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in March  2006. 
Mr Us representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Us representative says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr U wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Us representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr U about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr U and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN29702662The information Mr U received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr U disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Us. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Us complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN29702663GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Us complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr U with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NatWest gave Mr U sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN29702664-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr U, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr U suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr U and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Us complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr U know  he had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I can see from the mortgage application form that there is a note that PPI was discussed and 
that Mr U was given  a quotation. The note states that a direct debit for the PPI policy would 
be sent to Mr U for him to sign and return. Ive seen an example of the direct debit forms in 
use at the time. And I can see Mr U would have needed to confirm he wanted the PPI policy 
and return the form.
And I note the PPI policy remained in force for several years until 2012, with the premiums  
being taken from Mr Us current  account.  If it were something Mr U didnt want  or request I 
think its likely hed have questioned the premiums  at an early stage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr U knew the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
Both NatWest and Mr U agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr U. Instead,  it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr U to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr U was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr U was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr U would have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr U agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr U sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN29702665Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Us representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Us. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Us representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr U about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Us representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr U has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NatWest ought to have done  either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr U? To what extent did Mr U suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr U. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr U suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr U would have still 
taken out the policy,  had NatWest done  things properly. 
Mr U says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr U had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of Mr U being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr U chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr U thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr U suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr U knew he would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  NatWest told him the exact premium  at the point he applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr U would have been  told the cost before the 
Ref: DRN29702666policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odd with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with NatWest  at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr U would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NatWest  made  clear  exactly what  Mr U would get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Us expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
possibly the most significant differences between what Mr U thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr U knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr U 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr U be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr U pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr U from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Us circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr U didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr U might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr U 
from taking out the policy,  Mr U, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr U had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar job  which in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
Ref: DRN29702667played into his thinking about  what he would have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr U was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances that he 
would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
NatWest may not have  told Mr U that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr U would have received full sick pay for and his statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr U would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr U be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Us sick pay, savings or redundancy money for other use.
Mr U has said his occupation was hazardous  and this could affect his ability to make a claim. 
But Ive looked  at the terms  and conditions and his occupation wasnt  caught by any of the 
policy terms and conditions.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr U would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr U was made redundant, or unable  to work through the accident  or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr U would have taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Us representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr U wouldnt have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Us 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr U 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr U believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN29702668proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr U in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  out the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude NatWest should pay Mr U compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr U thinks  NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr U, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Us representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find NatWest negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr U and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr U in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Ref: DRN29702669Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2970266