K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about how National House-Building  Council (NHBC)  dealt with her claim 
on her building  warranty. 
background
Mrs P bought a new home in 2014.  It came with a building warranty provided by NHBC. In 
the first two years of owning the home, Mrs P raised  a few problems with the builders and 
subsequently NHBC.  NHBC  produced a resolution  report detailing the work that was 
required. 
Over the next few years work was carried out on the property to fix the problems. However 
after this time Mrs P wasnt satisfied that all the issues had been  fixed.  She remained 
unhappy with the following issues:
A damp problem in the garage hadnt  been  rectified.
An upstairs window  hadnt been  fixed.
Doors throughout  the house  had been  painted without her consent.
There were  cracks in the paintwork in the skirting boards and stairs that hadnt been 
addressed.
She made a complaint  to NHBC.
NHBC didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had carried out all necessary  repairs to the 
window and to resolve the damp  problem  in the garage. And it said the cracks in the 
paintwork were a result  of settlement rather than a defect with the building,  so werent 
covered by the warranty. Finally, it said its contractors had painted  Mrs Ps doors  so they 
matched one that they had repaired.  And it didnt  think  this was unreasonable.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this response  and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend her complaint  be upheld. He said he was satisfied  NHBC 
had carried out the repairs as required in the resolution report to the damp  in the garage.  
And he didnt think the problem  with the window met the definition  of a defect. And as the 
claim for this was raised  under the defects section  of the policy he didnt think NHBC needed  
to do anything more.  He was also satisfied that the cracks  in the paintwork werent  covered 
by the warranty  and that NHBC acted reasonably by painting the internal doors.
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators  view and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
my provisional decision
When the complaint  came  to me, I came to a different outcome to our investigator. I wrote  to 
Mrs P and NHBC to explain that while I agreed  with our investigator about  the windows, 
doors and cracks in the paint, Id not seen enough  to show that NHBC had rectified the issue  
with the damp in the garage. I said I thought NHBC should pay for an independent survey to 
assess whether the problem had been  adequately rectified in line with the resolution  report. 
On receipt of the independent report,  I wrote to NHBC and Mrs P with my conclusions.  I said 
that as the report  identified  problems  with damp  on one of the garage walls,  and this had 
Ref: DRN28728882been considered as part of the resolution report produced previously, I thought NHBC should 
carry out the recommendations in the report in order to put this right. 
The surveyor also inspected the upstairs  windows of the property and found there was a 
defect with how they were  installed that was causing  a draught. I said that as draughts from 
the upstairs windows  was identified as a problem in the resolution reports produced  by 
NHBC, I was satisfied that this hadnt been rectified in the required time. So I thought  NHBC 
should carry out the recommendations  in the report in relation to the windows.
NHBC agreed to carry out the recommendations in relation  to the damp  in the garage. 
However it said it had already rectified the problem with the upstairs  window so it was 
prepared to check this work had been done  correctly, but it didnt think it should do anything 
further.
Mrs P responded and agreed to the recommendations to be carried  out in relation  to the 
garage and windows. She also pointed out a number  of other defects that were  identified in 
the report or were still outstanding that she felt NHBC should  also deal with.
Ive considered the comments from Mrs P and NHBC when reaching my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For way of background, I will start by explaining how policies such  as this one work.  When  
dealing with a claim that falls within  the first two years of a warranty such  as this, NHBC 
have a limited remit. A claim  will come to NHBC if a defect has been reported to the original  
home builders and theyve failed  to rectify  the damage in a reasonable timescale. NHBC are 
then required only to offer a resolution service between the customer and the builder   laying 
out what needs to be completed  and by when. If the builder fails to complete the required 
work in that time, then NHBC  are required to step in and do the work  itself.  At this point, the 
insurance element  of the warranty kicks in, which we are permitted  to consider.
In this case, following the independent report carried out when the complaint came  to this 
service, I dont  consider  that NHBC have rectified  the problems identified  in its resolution 
report in regards to the upstairs  windows or the damp in the garage.  I will explain  why.
damp in the garage
When the complaint  came  to this service  originally, the main  concern appeared to be around 
damp concerning the wall that attached the garage  to the main house. The independent  
surveyor found no issues with damp  on that side of the garage,  however he did identify a 
problem in the wall opposite  the flank wall. 
I have looked  at the resolution report issued by NHBC in 2017. It lists the problem  with damp 
in the garage  as garage brickwork appears  damp. So the problem listed isnt specific  to one 
particular wall. 
Further, Ive considered the investigative  and repair work that was carried out as a result  of 
the 2017 report. The report states:  The right hand  side flank wall of the garage was also 
Ref: DRN28728883tested for damp Although  one area showed high readings, this was located in the middle 
section of the wall and we consider that the meter detected a wall tie, rather  than damp.
So Im satisfied that the flank wall was included  in the problem identified  in the 2017 
resolution report.
The independent surveyor commented in his report:  
The rear wall of the garage, close to the right-hand door reveal is severely affected by rising  
and penetrating  damp, at wall base, caused by high external finished floor levels,  which  are 
bridging the physical damp proof  course. There may also be issues  with the cavity  closer in 
this area,  but this should be inspected, when the plasterboard is removed for renewal in this 
area.'
And goes  on to say:
High external  ground levels,  which bridge the physical  DPC, are already causing significant  
dampness to the rear garage wall but pose  the real potential for future issues  with wall base 
damp to other areas of the building. 
So the item in the resolution report refers  to the garage brickwork in general. And the flank 
wall was tested, but the results were disregarded  without further investigation. I therefore 
think that its fair to conclude NHBC hasnt carried out the required work for this part of the 
resolution report. I will therefore require NHBC to carry out all recommendations in the 
independent report  in relation to the damp in the garage. NHBC has now agreed to this 
course of action.
windows
NHBC has said that the issue raised  regarding the windows was in relation to just the 
upstairs bathroom window. It says this was fixed at the time, so it feels  it has fulfilled the 
requirements under the resolution  report.
I have looked  at the 2017 resolution  report.  In relation to the issue  with the window it states:  
Throughout distinct draught from the windows on 1st floor.  
The report  from the independent surveyor states:  
A number  of windows  have been  severely undersized for the window openings,  and as 
such, the excessively wide gaps around the windows.
As the surveyor identified  a defect with the windows that would have likely caused the 
problem outlined in the resolution  report,  I am satisfied that this problem  wasnt satisfactorily 
rectified by NHBC.
NHBC doesnt agree. It says it has already carried  out remedial  work  on the window of the 
upstairs bathroom. And thinks it should  be given the opportunity to check this remedial work  
has been successful,  rather than carry out the recommendations  in the report.  Further  it says 
there isnt any proof that the problem found with the window is a defect that means the 
windows dont meet its required  standards. 
Ref: DRN28728884Ive considered this but it doesnt  change my position. NHBC accepted  there was a problem 
with a distinct draught from the upstairs windows. While I accept it carried out remedial 
work to fix the bathroom window, Mrs P has maintained  that this problem wasnt  properly 
rectified by the work carried out. And the independent report supports this assertion. While  I 
appreciate NHBCs wish to assess the work it previously carried out before doing anything 
further, I dont think this is necessary in the circumstances. Nor do I think  its fair to subject 
Mrs P to further investigations  or reports.
The most recent report was carried out by an expert. And it concludes that there are defects 
with the windows that are causing  draughts. As this was a problem identified in the 
resolution report, Im satisfied that this is sufficient  evidence to show  that this wasnt  properly  
rectified. I will therefore require NHBC to carry out the recommendations in the independent  
report in relation to the windows.
internal doors
Mrs P explained in her original complaint  that she was unhappy that NHBCs contractor 
painted all the internal doors of her property,  without checking with her first. 
While I appreciate Mrs Ps frustration that the work wasnt  checked with her first, NHBC has 
said that this work was carried  out as it had to re-hang one of doors  and this left a bare edge 
which had a poor physical appearance.  So it repainted the door to ensure a good 
appearance and all the other doors  were  re-painted to ensure they match.
Mrs P has said that this is against the recommendations from the manufacturer of the doors, 
as its states they shouldnt be re-painted.  However Ive not seen any evidence  that this is the 
advice given in relation  to this kind of door. Nor have  seen anything to suggest  the new 
paintwork has caused problems  in aesthetic  or function. 
For this reason I dont  think NHBC has acted  unreasonably by re-painting the doors and I 
dont think it needs  to do anything further  in relation to this.
cracks in stairs and skirting boards
Mrs P also complained about cracks  that appeared in the paintwork around  the stairs and 
skirting boards. 
NHBCs contractor  inspected  the cracks when he attended the property in August 2018.  He 
concluded that the cracks were caused by normal settlement. NHBC has said that damage 
caused by settlement, rather than a defect, is excluded from cover under the warranty. 
I appreciate Mrs Ps concerns around  NHBCs account of the cause considering the other 
issues she has had. However I havent  seen anything further  to suggest NHBCs contractors 
initial opinion was incorrect. And as this is the only expert opinion  provided, I am satisfied 
that the cracks are most likely caused  by settlement and therefore wouldnt be covered 
under the warranty.
additional issues
Mrs P has raised a number of other  issues that either havent  been resolved by NHBC or 
have arisen as a result  of the independent  report. As these werent raised as part of this 
complaint, I havent  considered them here. However I have passed all of Mrs Ps concerns 
Ref: DRN28728885onto NHBC and it has agreed to open new claims as appropriate. NHBC will contact Mrs P 
about these separately. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require National House-Building Council to:
Carry out all recommendations in relation to the damp in the garage  as laid out in the 
independent report.  
Carry out all recommendations in relation to the windows  in the independent  report.
If National House-Building Council wishes to cash settle rather  than carry out the work 
outlined above,  it must  do this at the cost to the consumer, on receipt  of reasonable 
quotes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2872888