K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that four short  term loans he took out with CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as 
Quick Quid) were unaffordable.  
background
Mr L took out four short term loans with Quick  Quid. These are:
Loan Type Date amount instalments Highest repayment
Repayment date
1 Payday 14/08/15 £200 2 £247.52 30/09/15
2 Payday 07/11/15 £100 1 £126.40 08/11/15
2a Top up 08/11/15 £50 1 £189.20 10/12/15
3 Payday 14/12/15 £250 1 £308.00 15/12/15
4 Refinance 15/12/15 £300 2 £367.20 Still outstanding
Before providing  the loans,  Quick Quid says that it asked  Mr L about his income and 
expenditure along with it carrying out a credit check.  It says that these checks  were 
proportionate in all of the circumstances  that it knew about at the time of each loan.
Mr L says that he was in financial  difficulties at the time, and that Quick  Quid  would have 
known about this if it had asked him more about his situation. He says that if it had carried 
out a credit check it would  have  seen that he had several loans at the time.  He says some  of 
the expenditure figures he gave at the time were not right and were  too low.
Our adjudicator thinks Quick Quid carried out enough checks when it agreed to lend Mr L 
money for the first loan but with the information  it did gather, it shouldnt have granted it. For 
loan 2, she thought the checks  carried out by the business were  proportionate and didnt see 
that this loan was unaffordable. She also concluded  that Quick  Quid  didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for loans  3 and 4. But she hadnt been able to check  whether these 
loans were affordable  for Mr L as he hadnt been  able to supply further  information  regarding 
his finances at that time. So our adjudicator partially upheld  Mr Ls complaint and asked  
Quick Quid to put things  right with regards to loan 1 only.  
Mr L and Quick Quid did not agree and so Mr Ls complaint  has come to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Quick Quid, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mr L would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr L would have been  
able to do so.
Ref: DRN24041102Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ls indebtedness in a way that was otherwise  
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Quick Quid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Quick  Quid did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Quick Quid was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr L 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr L was borrowing  and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Quick Quid  had to do.
Loan 1 taken out on 14/08/15
Before providing  the first loan, Quick Quid gathered information from Mr L about  his income 
and expenditure  and it also says it carried out a credit check.  Mr L told it he had a net 
monthly income of £1100 and gave expenditure of £875. Based on the information I have 
seen, the highest monthly  repayment amount for loan 1 was £247.52.
Mr Ls declared disposable income of £225  was lower than his highest  repayment amount, 
which meant he wouldnt have been able to afford  to repay the second instalment amount 
within his means. The loan was also to be repaid over a relatively  short period of time so it 
would have been difficult for Mr L to meet the repayment amounts on the dates agreed 
based on what he had declared to Quick  Quid.  So because of these reasons, I dont think 
Loan 1 was affordable for Mr L and Quick Quid shouldnt have agreed to it based  on the 
information it had gathered.
Loan 2 and 2a taken out on 07/11/15 and 08/11/15
Quick Quid again  gathered information about  Mr Ls income and expenditure and says used 
information from a credit check when it assessed  his application for a second  loan along with 
a top up. Mr L initially  applied for £100 on 07/11/15  but a day later topped this amount  up by 
£50. Mr L declared his income to again be £1100 and his expenditure a lower  figure  of £675. 
Mr L had declared his disposable  income to be £425.
This was Mr Ls second loan with Quick Quid and the amount he was asking  to borrow was 
slightly lower than his first loan. I think the checks it carried out were proportionate and it 
showed that the loan (loan 2) with the top up (loan  2a) added to it was affordable based on 
what Mr L had told it. 
Loans 3 and 4 taken  out on 14/12/15 and 15/12/15
Mr L applied again  to Quick Quid only a few days after he had repaid loan 2. He applied  for a 
loan of £250 (loan 3) and then a day later refinanced this into a slightly larger  loan of £300 
(loan 4) to be repaid  over 2 instalments.
At this point, Mr L gave  his income  as £1100  again,  but he declared a much  lower 
expenditure of £352. I think Quick Quid should have seen this and asked for further 
information about why this expenditure had changed since his last loan application. I also 
think by this stage  Quick Quid should  have  been  carrying out further  checks due to the 
Ref: DRN24041103regularity that he was now borrowing from them. It should have carried out a complete 
review of his finances and found  out further information about his expenditure and short  term 
credit commitments.
That said Mr L has not been able to provide our service  with any details about  his finances 
from the time he was granted  loans 3 and 4. So even if Quick  Quid had carried out the 
additional checks, without being  able to check what these would have shown, I cant  be sure 
that they would have  affected its decision to lend to Mr L.
Mr L has said Quick Quid should have picked up on the financial problems he says he had 
when it carried out a credit check.  I have looked  at the information Quick Quid received from 
the check it carried out. From what I have  seen, although it is not comprehensive, it doesnt 
raise concerns that would  suggest  to me that further  checks  wouldve been needed.
Overall, I dont  think Quick Quid should have agreed to Loan  1 as based  on the information it 
had gathered from Mr L at that time, the loan was not affordable for him. The checks it 
carried out for loan 2, I think were proportionate  and the repayment  amounts were affordable 
for Mr L. And although  Quick Quid should have  carried out further checks  before it agreed to 
lend Mr L, Loans  3 and 4, I havent been  able to see whether this would have made any 
difference to it agreeing to lend to him. So because  of this conclusion, I partly  uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and think Quick  Quid should  put things right with regards to loan 1.
putting things right
I dont think QuickQuid should have agreed  to give Mr L loan 1. So for this loan QuickQuid 
should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ls credit  file in relation  to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC to 
put things right as detailed above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before  16 February 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2404110