K820x#14complaint
Mr M, who is represented by his solicitor, Mr S, complains that he was mis-sold a training 
course and his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 was rejected by 
Caledonian Consumer  Finance Ltd.
background
In the summer  of 2016 Mr M met with an adviser after making  an online enquiry and entered 
into an agreement to fund a training course provided by a company I will call T. The cost was 
£7,145.
In May 2018  Mr M complained to Caledonian and said the course and finance had been mis-
sold. He said he had been given verbal  assurances that the course would give him 
qualifications which would open  up his career prospects. He said the actual  terms of the 
agreement didnt match what  he had been told. Caledonian and T rejected his complaint and 
so he brought  it to this service. It was considered  by one of our investigators  who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
Mr S said that the loan agreement showed  the interest was 0% and so he presumed  there  
was an arrangement between Caledonian and T from which  Caledonian derived some 
financial benefit. He said the course  fee was exorbitant and Mr M had been  pressurised into 
signing the agreement. He doubted  the ability of T to deliver the training required to achieve  
the relevant qualifications.
The investigator spoke  to T which explained that once Mr M finished the online element of 
the training he would go on to weekend modules. These would lead to the qualifications 
which Mr M was seeking. She said that Mr M had two more  online elements to complete 
having worked 10 modules up to March 2018. It also provided the detailed prospectus  for the 
course. Mr M explained that he had obtained the qualification by an alternative means and 
had no need to complete the course.
The investigator was satisfied that the agreement was affordable. She had no supporting 
evidence to show that Mr M had been  pressurised into taking out the agreement.  She noted 
the loan was interest free and she had nothing to suggest that this was incorrect.  She added  
that she had looked at the cost of similar courses  and thought  the fee charged to Mr M was 
comparable to those.  
She considered the issue of misrepresentation and concluded that according  to the 
documentation given  to Mr M he would have been  able to obtain the qualification he was 
seeking had he completed the course.  She said that face to face training was part of the 
course, but Mr M had stopped before he reached this stage.  Overall  she didnt think the 
course had been  misrepresented.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr Ms transaction with T was financed by credit supplied to him by Caledonian, 
section 75 of the CCA1974  is a factor that needs  to be taken  into account when dealing with 
Ref: DRN26723852his complaint. In simple  terms, section 75 gives Mr M an equal right to claim against 
Caledonian or T for a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by T.
I can appreciate Mr M became disillusioned with the course. I understand he had some  
training prior to this course  and was using it primarily to obtain a qualification which  would 
enhance his career  and income.  However he didnt complete  the course and sought an 
alternative route to get what he wanted.  Having  looked at the course  material I believe he 
would have been able to obtain the qualifications and so I cannot  say that it was 
misrepresented in that regard.
I cannot say what  was said by the adviser, but I have seen nothing  in the documentation that 
would allow me to uphold this complaint. I believe it was sufficiently clear and it was open to 
Mr M to have  cancelled within 14 days if he so desired. The fact that it was interest  free is 
not grounds for me uphold the complaint. Finance firms are entitled to provide zero percent 
finance if they so wish.  Mr M was made  aware of the cost and the terms of the agreement  
and I cannot say that he was misled.
Therefore I can see no grounds that would allow me to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2672385