K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with the settlement of his 
claim.
background
Mr K first took out a home insurance  policy with AXA in April 2014  and renewed it each 
subsequent year. 
In January 2017 Mr K and his family were victims  of an armed  robbery  at their home which  
resulted in the theft of jewellery, clothing  and other  items. During the course of the robbery, 
items in his home  were damaged including his front door, carpets  and furniture.
Following his claim for the stolen or damaged  items AXA concluded  that Mr K had under-
insured the contents of his property  as the cost of replacement exceeded the overall policy 
limit of £75,000. Because of this, AXA said it would only settle  a percentage of the claim. It 
also wasnt satisfied he had substantiated  some losses  such as the full value of the 
wardrobe and the cash he had in the house.
Mr K was unhappy with the time taken  to progress his claim and the settlement offered. He 
felt AXA shouldve increased his cover in line with the increase in value of the items it knew  
he owned. He felt it was unreasonable not to compensate him for the stolen cash or the full 
cost of the wardrobe. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the settlement should be increased (unless Mr K 
provided evidence  to support his comments about the wardrobe value) but she thought AXA 
should arrange for the front door to be repaired.
Mr K disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr K has responded in some depth  to correspondence from both our service and AXA about 
the claim and his complaint. Hes provided  a lot of detail about  why he thinks  the settlement 
offered isnt enough. I want  to reassure him that Ive carefully considered all his points, but 
rather than address them individually Ive focussed on the crux of the complaint and what,  if 
anything, AXA needs to do to finally settle the claim.  And while  the claim and subsequent 
settlement involved a number of items  across a number  of sections of the policy, Ive 
focused on the elements of the settlement  that remain in dispute.
under-insurance
In a detailed form he completed in September 2017, Mr K stated the replacement  value of 
the contents of his home (the value at risk or VAR)  were worth in the region of £94,500  and 
this included jewellery valued at a total of £37,450.  But hes also suggested at times that he 
should have had cover  of at least £100,000  and I note the loss adjuster estimated the 
contents to be at least this amount.
Ref: DRN24888632The problem in this case is that Mr Ks policy  provided contents cover  for up to £75,000  only.  
So, in effect,  Mr K was under insured by more  than 25%, which is why AXA made  the 
decision to settle  his claim at 75% of his proven losses in line with the policy  terms which 
warn that:
If the amount shown on your policy schedule represents less than 100% of the full 
replacement value of your contents  we will only be able to settle  claims at the 
percentage you are insured for. 
Given Mr Ks VAR would  likely  be at least £100,000,  I think  offering 75% of the loss was a 
greater percentage  than AXA needed to offer. Ive also noted that AXA didnt apply the 
proportionate reduction to the valuables settlement which made up the majority  of the claim. 
Ive talked more  about that below.
Mr K disputes that he was under  insured but, based on the information hes provided to AXA 
and the loss adjusters assessment, I think he was. So AXA has acted fairly, settling his 
claim proportionately with reference to the amount Mr K is actually insured for.
Mr K thinks  AXA shouldve  increased  the policy  limits in line with the year-on-year inflated 
value of the contents. But I dont  agree. The policy didnt offer automatic annual  increases. 
And, ultimately, it was Mr Ks responsibility  not AXAs   to ensure his policy  provided 
adequate cover for the contents  of his home. 
I understand Mr K bought his policy through  a broker and has raised a separate  complaint 
about the sale and insured amounts with them. 
valuables claim
Mr Ks policy  provided a specific amount of cover  for valuables  which,  according  to the terms 
and conditions, included  jewellery, cameras and watches. Mr K latterly claimed he lost more  
than £50,000  worth of valuables  in the robbery. But his policy  provided cover, as standard,  
for only £30,000 of valuables.  And so, as he was under-insured, the settlement of this part of 
the claim could have been limited  to 75% of £30,000.
But AXA decided to pay out the full £30,000 valuable limit. It felt that, due to being under 
insured, Mr K had already  lost out on the full value of the items stolen and it didnt  wish to 
penalise him twice. As it paid more than it needed to under  the terms of the policy, Im 
satisfied AXA has settled  this part of the claim fairly. 
cash stolen from the property
Mr K claimed over £1,800 of cash,  which he said hed saved in coins,  was stolen from his 
property. AXA hasnt  settled this part of the claim because  Mr K wasnt  able to substantiate 
this loss. Its also pointed  out that the policy provides  cover  for only £500  cash.
I sympathise with Mr Ks circumstances and understand why hes unable to evidence this 
part of the claim, but the onus is on him to do so. As he hasnt been able to substantiate the 
loss of this cash,  I think AXA has acted reasonably in declining this part of the claim.
damage to the front door
Ref: DRN24888633Theres been some debate  about whether the front door was actually damaged in the 
robbery. But AXA ultimately  agreed to pay for the necessary repairs. At the time the 
investigator reviewed this complaint AXA agreed  a third party would  be sent to Mr Ks home 
to assess the damaged  front door and decide  the best course of action. My understanding  is 
that Mr K wasnt comfortable  with the third party AXA instructed and the door still hasnt 
been repaired. 
Also, in January 2019 Mr K told us he didnt want the door repaired at that time due to the 
cold weather and would contact AXA in the first week of May 2019. AXA says it hasnt 
received any further contact from him regarding this part of the claim but I think  its clear 
AXA has tried to undertake the repairs. And I note it now wishes  to cash  settle once Mr K 
provides evidence about the cost of repairing  the door. The policy terms enticed AXA to cash 
settle when its been unable to repair or replace items and, in the circumstances, I think  its 
offer to do so is reasonable.
If, once he provides evidence of the cost involved,  Mr K isnt satisfied with the way this part 
of the claim is handled, he can raise  a new complaint with AXA.  Im satisfied AXAs  
treatment of this part of the claim to date has been fair.
wardrobe
I note the forensic  investigation report says the wardrobe  was made of inexpensive laminate 
chipboard and it was difficult  to distinguish between damage that mightve  been  caused  in 
the robbery and damage associated with natural wear and tear. But AXA still agreed  to pay 
£225 for the wardrobe  which is 75% of the £300 replacement value the loss adjuster 
suggested Mr K was unhappy  with this as he felt it would  cost £875 to replace the wardrobe.
Its not unusual  for loss adjusters to estimate the value of items that need to be repaired or 
replaced. And, in this case, Mr K hasnt provided  any evidence to support his assertion that 
the estimate is unreasonable. 
AXA told Mr K it was willing to reconsider the amount offered upon receipt of any further 
information around the replacement value, including links to online  retailers or quotes  from 
local retailers. Mr K has said he has contacted several retailers,  but he hasnt seemingly 
given any further  information to AXA.
In the absence of any further evidence from Mr K, and given the description of the wardrobe 
provided in the forensic investigation report.  Im satisfied AXA has settled this part of the 
claim fairly. But if Mr K would like to provide any further information  to support a higher 
replacement value for the wardrobe, AXA has confirmed it will consider this further.
Delays and overall  claim  handling
In August  2017  AXA paid £150 to Mr K to recognise that he may have  been  caused distress 
by an internal email  that was sent to him by mistake. And the settlement cheque  it sent in 
April 2018 including  £250 compensation relating to the delays that occurred while  it was 
considering his claim. 
I can see it took more than a year to settle the claim but I havent seen any unreasonable or 
unavoidable delays caused by AXA throughout this time. Insurance claims such  as this one 
can sometimes take a considerable amount of time to resolve due to the circumstances 
Ref: DRN24888634involved. Here I can see that both Mr K and AXA had to put a lot of work into substantiating 
the value of the items claimed  for. 
Ive also seen that, on a number of occasions, Mr K asked  AXA to put a hold on the claim 
due to other life events  and to give him time to recover from the trauma  of the robbery.  All of 
which is all completely understandable. Due to Mr Ks circumstances and schedule  Ive also 
seen there  was difficulty arranging for a loss adjustor to visit his home  and it took some time 
for him to complete  and return the VAR form, which I think  it was reasonable of AXA to 
request.
Overall, I havent seen that AXA has caused  significant delays or acted unreasonably in its 
handling of the claim.  Due to the complicated circumstances it seems to have  simply been  a 
claim that required a lot of investigation.  I think AXAs total award of £400  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Im satisfied AXA has offered to settle 
the claim fairly to date 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2488863