K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that QBE Insurance (Europe)  Limited treated him unfairly  when considering 
his two insurance claims.
background
In 2014 Mr F took out an insurance  policy for his business. The policy was underwritten by 
QBE. Amongst other things, the policy provided  cover for goods in transit and stock at his 
premises.
In December 2014 Mr F was shipping an order of five chairs to his customer,  through a third 
party haulage company. The shipment had an order value of £10,000. The five chairs were  
damaged in transit, so Mr F made a claim to the company responsible.  Mr F says the five 
damaged chairs were  cannibalised to make one good one; and the rest of the order was 
completed from other stock  with delivery  taking place  in February 2015.
Mr F says that in July 2015 he became aware there was a limit being applied  to his claim 
with the haulage company, so he reported a goods in transit claim to QBE under his 
insurance policy.
In September  2015 QBE appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim. The loss adjusters 
arranged to visit Mr F in October  2015,  but the visit was cancelled  at Mr Fs request. The 
visit later took place in November 2015  instead.
After the visit, the attending loss adjuster said that he was only shown one chair  and the rest 
were in a large  container full of items, so there wasnt any way of seeing the condition of the 
other chairs, or whether  they still existed. He didnt  comment  on the condition of the chair  he 
did see. Mr F explained that only one chair was available for inspection due to an 
unexpected site move. 
An email  exchange  between the loss adjuster  and his colleague  suggests  that the decision 
was taken not to visit Mr F again  and for the damaged items to be evidenced by photos. 
The loss adjuster confirmed he had requested documents from Mr F to support his claim, 
including: the collection docket, the haulage  companys terms, substantiation for the loss, 
and details of the haulage companys  claim  settlement.
In March 2016 the loss adjusters told QBE that despite attempts to obtain  the claim details 
and to inspect  the damaged consignment, it hadnt  had a response from Mr F  so it 
considered the claim withdrawn.
Mr F then contacted QBE  in February  2017  for an update  and a further  visit was arranged 
in May 2017.  But the day before the visit, Mr F told QBE that the items he had available  for 
inspection had been stolen from outside  his premises, along with other items  so the visit 
was cancelled. Mr F explained the items had been laid out in the open  at the front of his 
premises, but were stolen whilst he was out of sight.  The other items were Mr Fs bike,  
laptop, and phone.
Ref: DRN25462102Discussions subsequently took place  between the parties about the original  goods  in transit 
claim, and a second claim for the theft.  In December 2017 QBE sent Mr F its final response 
on the matter. In respect of the theft claim, QBE said it was declined on the basis  Mr F had 
not taken out the necessary cover which protects  stock in the open. Regarding his original 
goods in transit claim, QBE  explained  that it had not yet been  provided with a copy of the 
information it had asked for, and so the claim couldnt progress.
Mr F was unhappy, so he referred his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by 
one of our investigators. Mr F told us that he still has the old upholstery  covers and 10-15 
parts that were not present when the theft occurred,  so these remained available for 
inspection.
QBE made  the following  points to our investigator:
It required a copy of the contract  with the haulage company; and a copy  of its claim 
settlement with confirmation  of the basis it settled.
It needed to inspect the damaged  chairs   and this has been attempted on previous 
occasions without  success.
The five chairs were dismantled, without  referral to QBE.  Mr F is unable  to show  the 
damaged goods, so there is no way of dealing with the claim  theres no way of 
knowing if the chairs could have been repaired.  The items hes now found are 
insufficient for assessing the claim.
Due to Mr Fs delays  and actions, QBEs position has been prejudiced.
Our investigator concluded that the theft claim had been  fairly  declined. He commented  that 
the policy schedule  confirmed Mr F hadnt  taken  out cover to protect  stock  in the open. He 
also didnt think QBE  needed to do anything further in terms of the original  goods  in transit 
claim  this is because it wasnt able to complete an inspection of the items being claimed 
for.
Mr F disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint  has been passed to me for a final 
decision. Ive already  written to both parties setting out the following observations:
In terms of the theft claim, Mr F didnt  hold the necessary  cover  for stock or materials  
in the open, and the policy didnt cover the circumstances of the theft in respect  of his 
office laptop. I also agreed  with the loss adjuster  that there wasnt any cover for 
personal items.
In terms of the goods in transit claim  Mr F has provided his customers order form, 
photos of the damaged items, the haulage  companys claim form, and details  of its 
settlement. So I was satisfied that an insured loss had occurred, and said its 
therefore a question of how QBE should  fairly settle  the claim.
QBE said it needs  documentary evidence of the haulage companys liability in order  
to settle the claim.  But I didnt consider QBEs approach to be fair  Mr F has shown 
how much  he received from the haulage company, so if QBE  wasnt  satisfied with 
this information  it could have directly contacted the haulage company or that 
companys insurer, but it didnt do so.
Ref: DRN25462103In my opinion, Mr Fs decision to dismantle the five damaged  chairs  to make a single 
good one, so he could fulfil his customers order, was understandable. Nonetheless,   
I was satisfied that this had significantly  prejudiced QBEs position.  This is because 
QBE wasnt given  the opportunity to inspect the items before they were dismantled,  
and this made matters  difficult  in terms of assessing the claim. Furthermore,  due to 
the time that passed,  and then the theft, QBE wasnt in a position to determine  the 
salvage or stock  value  of the parts that remained after Mr F had completed his 
customers order.
I also said the initial delay in contacting QBE was understandable, in my view. This is 
because Mr F was pursuing the haulage company and he thought he would  be fully 
reimbursed. In addition, I said in respect  of Mr Fs alleged  lack of response  after the 
loss adjusters visit, I havent  been shown QBE  made further attempts to obtain the 
documents it needed or to see the remaining parts  be that in person or by photo. 
So overall, I was persuaded QBE could have  done more to assess the claim.
Nonetheless, I said even if QBE had seen all the parts before the theft had occurred, 
it still would have  been very difficult  for it to have  validated  the claim given the chairs 
had been dismantled.  
So in view of the difficult  circumstances for both parties, I concluded that a pragmatic 
settlement should be reached for the goods  in transit claim. I considered it fair and 
reasonable for QBE to settle  the claim on the following basis:
-the five chairs were  valued at £10,000;
-one chair was salvaged, so its reasonable to assume the loss to be £8,000;
-£1,950 was settled by the haulage company, leaving a loss of £6,050;
-its reasonable to assume the remaining chairs  and parts held some value;
-so a fair settlement would be 50% of £6,050, less the £250 policy excess;
-this equate to £2,775
QBE agreed to the proposed settlement. But Mr F didnt. He explained  that he had to buy 
four replacement chairs,  and other  parts, to complete the order  and also highlighted his 
labour. Mr F sent us invoices to evidence his replacement costs, which excluded his own 
labour. The invoices came to about  £7,000. Mr F also thought compensation should be 
considered given QBE  hadnt offered any settlement  before now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I would like to acknowledge that its been quite some  time since  
both parties responded to my initial  observations. I apologise for the delay  and thank them 
for their patience.
Ref: DRN25462104goods in transit claim
I remain of the view that QBEs ability to assess  the claim was significantly prejudiced  and 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to decide that QBE should simply accept the invoices Mr F 
has now provided. Particularly given the £5,000 invoice for the four replacement chairs isnt 
on letter  headed  paper  and it states  it was paid in cash. In my view, QBE  cant  reasonably 
be expected to verify this invoice after so much  time has passed. 
The onus was on Mr F to show, on balance, an insured loss occurred   and also the value of 
that loss. Im not persuaded  he has sufficiently shown the value of his loss, and this is mainly  
because QBE wasnt given a fair opportunity  to determine if the chairs were repairable.  But 
also, QBE made two attempts to assess the remaining parts   but the majority of the parts 
werent made available  during the first visit, and the second visit didnt go ahead due to the 
theft. Furthermore, due to its appearance, Im also not persuaded I can reasonably  rely on 
the £5,000 invoice to conclude the four chairs  were replaced, rather  repaired.
However, taking into account  that Im satisfied an insured  loss did occur, and Im persuaded 
QBE could have  done more to progress the claim   overall Im persuaded there  should  be 
some settlement on this claim.
I accept the settlement I proposed to both parties is by no means the perfect  solution. But 
having thought about matters carefully, Im persuaded it represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the individual circumstances of this complaint. Im not persuaded I can fairly  
award anything  above  £2,775.
theft claim
Based on Mr Fs policy schedule and the policy terms, I remain satisfied that he didnt hold 
the necessary  cover  to claim for stock or materials stolen  from the open.  Mr F only held 
cover for such items stored in buildings  on the insured premises. 
In terms of Mr Fs personal items, having reviewed  the policy terms further, Im now of the 
view that he was actually  covered up to £1,000  for his personal effects on the insured 
premises  this was in addition to his cover for office  computers. 
But importantly, I remain satisfied the policy did not cover the circumstances of the theft that 
occurred. I say this because the policy only covered a theft if force and violence was used to 
enter or exit a building, or if there  was violence or the threat of violence  and that wasnt  the 
case here. So in conclusion, Im persuaded that his laptop, phone,  and bike were fairly 
declined too.
Ref: DRN25462105my final decision
I appreciate that Mr F will remain disappointed,  but for the reasons set out above I uphold  his 
complaint. My final decision is QBE Insurance (Europe) Limited should settle Mr Fs goods  in 
transit claim for £2,775.  I make no further awards.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546210