K821x#15Complaint
Mr B, represented by Mrs B, complains that the vehicle he hired under a hire agreement with 
BNP Paribas Leasing  Solutions Limited  (BNP  Paribas) wasnt  of satisfactory quality. He 
wants the vehicle  replaced or to be able to reject it.
Background
Mr B entered into a five year hire agreement with BNP Paribas in April 2018 to hire a new 
vehicle. He says that within the first month he noticed an issue  with the gears but when it 
was inspected no fault was found.  Mr B was told that if the issues  re-occurred he should 
return the vehicle  for further inspection. 
BMP Paribas arranged for the vehicle to be inspected  on 28 May 2018 but because a 
courtesy vehicle wasnt  available this didnt take place. A further  appointment was made  for 
4 June but there was the same issue regarding a courtesy vehicle.
As well as the issue with the gears,  Mr B says that he experienced an issue  with the 
payment date which meant money left his account when there  werent enough funds to 
cover the payment. 
In September  2018, Mrs B called BNP Paribas to make a payment but was told she couldnt  
do this as the agreement wasnt in joint names.  However she says that Mr B had called  in 
May to say that he was happy for BNP Paribas  to speak to Mrs B about the agreement.
In December Mrs B says they were told the account had been passed to a collections 
company, and in January 2019  an agent  went to their house with the intention of recovering 
the vehicle.
On 12 February 2019, Mr B had the car inspected and it was confirmed that there  was an 
intermittent fault with the clutch. He says he has lost confidence  in the vehicle and that this 
has had an impact on his business as the vehicle is used for this.
BMP Paribas issued its final response  letter  regarding the issues  with the vehicle in June 
2018 saying that because  no fault had been  found the complaint wouldnt be upheld.  In 
regard to the payment issue, BNP Paribas says that this has been resolved. 
Our investigator said that a fault had been identified with the vehicle and given when this 
was first raised she was satisfied the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. She said that given when the issue was raised, BNP Paribas had the right to attempt  
a repair  and that if this wasnt  successful then Mr B would have the right to reject  the vehicle. 
Given the previous  issues with getting  the vehicle inspected  she thought it reasonable that 
BNP Paribas would arrange for the vehicle to be collected and returned  after the repair.  She 
also thought hat Mr B should either have a courtesy  car for the time he was without his 
vehicle or a refund of rentals  if no alternative  transport was provided.
Our investigator said Mr B was required to make the payments under the agreement  and 
had been using the vehicle. However  she thought it reasonable that BNP Paribas set up a 
payment plan for the arrears  and that once  this was in place any adverse information  should 
be removed from his credit file. She also thought  Mr B shouldnt  be charged additional 
interest on the arrears.  She also recommended that Mr B be paid £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused.  
Ref: DRN22708642Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. Mrs B said that they asked for the vehicle to be 
replaced within the first thirty days and that when the vehicle was inspected there was a fault 
found as this is why the vehicle was booked in for further investigation. 
BNP Paribas agreed to collecting and repairing the vehicle and providing  a courtesy vehicle 
during this period. It also agreed  to pay Mr B £300 and to work  with Mr B to arrange a 
suitable repayment plan to rectify the arrears. It said the entries on the credit  file reflected 
that payments  hadnt been  made but that if a payment plan was set up it would consider the 
removal of the arrears fee. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B hired a vehicle under a hire agreement. As our investigator set out his agreement  is 
covered by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This implies a term into the contract that 
the goods must be of satisfactory  quality. Goods are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect. As the vehicle was new when Mr B entered  
into the hire agreement it is reasonable that he would expect it to be free from faults, 
including any minor  defects.
Mr B says that within the first month he noticed  an issue  with the gears.  The car was taken 
to a garage on 16 May 2018 for an issue with the gears crunching  when changing  from 
fourth to fifth gear.  The report at this time says that a road test wasnt  able to find the fault 
and that if it re-occurred the gearbox  would need  to be removed  for further  investigation. I 
can see that Mr B contacted with BNP Paribas on 16 and 17 May and that on the 17 May he 
said that the had lost confidence in the vehicle and wanted a replacement.
As a fault hadnt been identified at this time I find it reasonable that BNP Paribas wanted the 
vehicle to be assessed to identify any issues. Although bookings were  made  for further  
investigation, these  werent kept due to issues with Mr B getting to and from the garage  and 
the lack of courtesy vehicles. 
While I understand that Mr B uses his vehicle for work and that the journey to the garage  
was inconvenient I dont find that BNP Paribas were acting unreasonably by saying that the 
vehicle needed  to be investigated.  I also dont  find I can hold it responsible  for the lack of a 
courtesy vehicle. That said,  given the issues raised  BNP Paribas could have tried to assist  
Mr B further in order to ensure the vehicle was investigated.
Other issues  were then raised by Mr B in regard to a payment date and authority to make  a 
payment. These issues were resolved.
In February 2019,  the vehicle was inspected and the report says: confirmed an intermittent 
crunching noise  when selecting  fifth gear and also reverse gear when the vehicle is 
stationary. This inspection confirms an issue with the vehicle and given it is the same issue 
that was raised  shortly  after Mr B entered into the hire agreement;  I find it reasonable to 
accept that this issue was present from the outset. Because of this I find that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN22708643As an issue was identified and I accept that this was more  likely than not present from the 
point of supply  I find it reasonable  that BNP Paribas is required to remedy  this. Mrs B says 
that the issue was noted within the first thirty  days and that they asked to replace the vehicle 
at that time therefore they should  have the right to reject the vehicle. I have considered  this 
issue. Mr B took delivery of the vehicle on 16 April 2018 and then the issues were  raised  
with BNP Paribas  on 16 May. On 17 May further  discussion  about the issue  took place and 
Mr B requested a replacement vehicle. A request  to reject wasnt made  at this time. 
I understand Mrs Bs comments  about  rejection, but as this was not requested at the time 
and instead a request for a replacement was made following which  it appears that the offer 
of repair  was accepted (but issues arose with the practicalities of this) I find the fairest 
resolution is to allow  a repair to be undertaken.
Our investigator recommended that BNP Paribas arrange for the vehicle to be collected and 
returned and that alternative transport be provided  to Mr B while  he was without his vehicle.  
BNP Paribas accepted this. I understand that this repair has taken place and that a courtesy 
car was provided. Therefore I find this resolves  this part of the complaint.
Mrs B says that there  have been further  issues with the vehicle including  an issue  with the 
steering for which repairs were required. While I appreciate that it is upsetting that Mr B has 
experienced other issues with the vehicle  while  this complaint has been ongoing these would 
need to be raised  as separate  issues for investigation as I have  nothing  at present to show  
that BNP Paribas has had the opportunity to consider this issue.
Mr B didnt maintain  his payments  while  the issues with his vehicle were ongoing. I can 
understand why this happened, but as he signed the hire agreement  he was bound  by its 
terms and so I would have expected payments to be maintained.  Although there  was an 
issue with the vehicle Mr B continued to use it and while  I note the comments  about the 
amount of use he had and his concerns about it breaking down, based on the invoice  from 
August 2019,  he had driven over 16,000 miles. Therefore I think he has had reasonable use 
of the vehicle and so should remain liable for the payments due under the agreement.
Because payments werent maintained,  arrears  built up and I agree it is reasonable that BNP 
Paribas work  with Mr B to arrange a suitable  payment plan. I understand this hasnt 
happened while the complaint has been  outstanding however I would expect  BNP Paribas to 
work with Mr B following this decision. I understand that fees were  applied to Mr Bs account  
in December 2018 but that no fees have  been  applied since  the complaint was raised  with 
this service. BNP has said that once  a repayment  plan was agreed it would consider the 
removal of these fees. Given the circumstances of this complaint I think  this would be 
reasonable. 
Mrs B has mentioned that they were  told to have a service carried out which then appeared 
unnecessary. While I appreciate the upset caused by this as this is an issue  of the service 
provided by the dealer and I do not find I can hold BNP Paribas responsible  for this issue.  
Mr B was caused distress  and inconvenience due to the issue  with his vehicle. However he 
also caused delay  by not keeping to appointments that were  made  in order  to identify  the 
issue. Our investigator recommended that he be paid £300 compensation. I understand he 
thinks a higher amount should  be paid but based  on the evidence I have seen I find that 
£300 is reasonable.
Ref: DRN22708644My final decision
My final decision, given the gearbox  repair has now been carried  out, is that BNP Paribas 
Leasing Solutions  Limited  should:
remove the £114 of fees from Mr Bs account  once  a payment plan has been  agreed;
remove any adverse information  from Mr B's credit file as long as he agrees a 
payment plan for the arrears;
pay Mr B £300 compensation, as it has agreed, for the trouble and upset Mr B has 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2270864