K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB) is acting unfairly and unreasonably by 
claiming that he owed  it money under a secured loan. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr B had a secured  loan with a lender, which was later transferred to OSB. The loan was 
administered on OSBs  behalf by P. The loan was due to end in 2017,  but Mr B said that he 
continued to make repayments  as he was dealing with issues affecting  his family. Mr B was 
unhappy that P was saying that he still owed money as he hadnt paid the first few months  of 
the loan due to issues with the direct debit  and if he didnt pay, it would take legal 
proceedings to gain possession of his property.
Mr B complained to P. It said that he had been in arrears  (and was told about them)  and 
hadnt repaid the debt in full as required.  P pointed out that due to the arrears,  Mr B owed  
more interest than planned and also incurred fees.
Mr B complained to us. The investigators view was that as of October 2018 Mr B did owe 
OSB money and was being charged interest.  He noted that Mr B had missed several 
payments which  increased the arrears and the interest charged. The investigator also said 
that Mr B hadnt made any payments since June 2017. But he pointed out that due to a 
previous complaint brought  against the original lender, fees shouldve  been removed from 
the account and hadnt been. OSB agreed to remove the fees and associated  interest  
(£384.69), which reduced the amount that Mr B owed.  The investigator said that the issues  
with direct debits had been dealt with previously and there  were  no other failings found. He 
said Mr B should work with OSB to repay his debt.
Mr B disagreed. He disputed the account summary  provided by P, but the investigator said 
hed checked  the number  of payments made  and P was correct.  But he said if Mr B sent 
evidence of further payments that he said had been  made and not credited by the deadline, 
this service would  review the issue again.  Mr B didnt send such  evidence and said that he 
wanted the money due to be credited to the loan balance paid direct to him, not deducted 
from his debt. The investigator said that it was fair and reasonable to deduct the money from 
the debt as it shouldve been  removed from the loan balance  in the first place.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt an accounts  checking service. If Mr B feels  that he hasnt been credited for 
payments that hes made and the balance claimed is incorrect, he can instruct  a forensic 
accountant at his own cost to assist him. That said, I note that Mr B hasnt provided any 
evidence of such payments not being  credited. The evidence before me supports the view 
that the loan was in arrears (which caused extra interest to be charged), payments  were 
missed by Mr B, and the loan hasnt been repaid  in full as required.
Ref: DRN21694862But due to a previous complaint, fees werent removed from the account.  This increased the 
loan balance  and the interest  charged. OSB has agreed to remove  those fees and 
associated interest from the balance,  which  I think is fair and reasonable. The fees shouldve 
been removed  earlier so by deducting the fees and interest from the balance, OSB  is putting 
Mr B back  into the position that he shouldve been in all along.  Mr B wants the money  paid 
direct to him, but he didnt actually pay the fees or interest so this wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable.
I would encourage  Mr B to work with OSB to agree an affordable  repayment  plan. Lenders 
are required  to treat consumers in financial difficulties  fairly,  but are equally entitled to expect 
repayment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  but no further  action is required by 
OneSavings Bank Plc if it credits the fees and associated  interest  to the loan account  as 
outlined above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2169486