K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card in person at a branch  of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ws signed application for the credit card. It includes a section 
about PPI, with clear  options  to take or decline the cover. Theres  a tick in the box to 
indicate that Mr W wished to take PPI. I think Lloyds made Mr W aware that the 
PPI was optional  and that he chose  to take it  although  I can understand why he may 
no longer remember  this, so many  years later.
 Mr Ws told us he cant remember whether  Lloyds recommended that he take out the 
PPI. But Lloyds  says it did recommend  the PPI to him. This means  that it had a 
responsibility to check that the cover was right for him. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time.
 Mr Ws credit card application  shows that he was employed when he applied  for the 
credit card.  But hes told us he doesnt  know how much  sick pay or redundancy pay 
hed have been entitled to from his employer at the time.
 The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. I think its likely that thats longer than Mr W would have 
been entitled to full sick pay from his employer for. Whats  more, the policy  would have 
paid out in addition to any payments Mr W received from his employer. So he could 
have used to those to meet other day-to-day  expenses. Taking  everything into 
account, I think the policy could have been  useful to Mr W  particularly as hes told us 
that aside from any payments from his employer, he didnt have any savings or other 
means he could have used to make his monthly credit card repayments  if he was off 
sick or if he was made redundant.
Ref: DRN21591432 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained  that Im satisfied that Mr W chose  to take out the 
policy. So he appears to have wanted this type of cover,  even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now. He wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  And since Mr W was 
paying for the policy monthly, he could have  cancelled it at any time without further 
cost if he decided he no longer  wanted it.
 I acknowledge that Mr W feels strongly that he wouldnt  have taken out the policy  if it 
had been explained.  But taking everything  into account, I think  it unlikely hed have 
made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think 
hed still have  taken  out the policy.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ws comments, including  the fact that he appears to have told 
Lloyds that he felt pressured into taking  the PPI. But while  Lloyds accepts that it 
recommended the PPI to Mr W, pressure  is another matter. Im not convinced that Mr Ws 
recollection of the sale is particularly  clear.  I think thats understandable, bearing in mind that 
it took place more than 20 years  ago. But without stronger evidence, I cant  fairly conclude 
that Mr W was pressured into taking the policy.
Ive also borne in mind  what Mr Ws said about the fact that he didnt  claim on the policy  
during various  periods of unemployment. He says that if hed known he had the policy, and 
what benefits it provided hed have claimed.  But Mr W ticked the box on the application form 
next to the words Yes, I wish to take out Card Payment Protection  and protect my 
payments should  I be made unemployed or be off work due to accident or sickness . So 
I think hed have known  broadly what the cover was for when he applied. I cant  know why 
he didnt claim when  he was unemployed, or whether  any claim would have been 
successful. But the fact that he didnt  claim doesnt change my conclusion  that the policy 
wasnt mis-sold  in the first place.
This means  that Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair.
To put that right,  Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN21591433my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2159143