K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he has been  financing through  an agreement with BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr L took receipt of a new car in November 2015.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS.
But he says hes experienced juddering with the car; as follows:
within first year Mr L says car juddered  but not severely. 
October 2016 juddering reported to the dealership.
December 2016  juddering reported again. Battery and ignition coils replaced.
August 2018 drivetrain warning light illuminated. Battery,  ignition coils and spark  
plug cylinder  replaced
September 2018 drivetrain warning light illuminated. No fault found.
He complained to BMWFS and told them he wanted  to be allowed to reject the car but they 
wouldnt let him do so as they said they were  only responsible for the quality of the car at the 
point of supply  and there was no proof  that the faults  Mr L complained  of were  present at 
that time.  They said he hadnt reported any problems to them  until hed had the car for a 
year.
In October  2018 Mr L voluntarily terminated  his agreement paying £401.85 to settle  it. But 
before he could do so he had to get the spark plugs replaced again as the car was juddering 
once more.
He therefore complained  to this service and our investigator provided her opinion.  She noted  
that the car was brand new when Mr L took receipt of it and she said she wouldnt expect a 
brand new car to exhibit such problems so early  on. She thought  there was therefore  
evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality because it hadnt proven to be durable. 
She therefore suggested that BMWFS refund the £401.85 Mr L had to pay to settle his 
agreement; refund his deposit  and pay him £300 to compensate him for the distress  and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
BMWFS didnt respond to the investigators view so the complaint was referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN29427532Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement.  The hire purchase  agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr L. The car here 
was brand new and I wouldnt expect it to have any faults when supplied.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
And when  I consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation says I 
should consider  whether it has proven to be suitably durable and here I dont  think  that can 
be said to be the case.
Mr L has had to take his car back to the dealership  on several occasions  for what I think  its 
fair to say was the same or at least a closely related fault. Whilst I agree he was able to 
complete a reasonable mileage in the car it was clearly not satisfactory to have his car 
frequently judder and for warning lights to appear. I dont think  a reasonable person would 
expect that to be the case on a brand new car; even after it had completed 10,000 miles 
(when first identified). I think its also fair to say that BMWFSs attempts to repair the vehicle  
have been unsuccessful as the same faults  appear to have reoccurred over a prolonged 
period and the same parts appear to have been  exchanged.
So I think BMWFS  should have allowed Mr L to reject  the car when he asked them  in 
September 2018 and, as they didnt, I think its clear he had to unnecessarily  pay £401.85 to 
voluntarily terminate his agreement early. They should therefore refund that payment with 
the requisite interest and they should  also refund the deposit Mr L paid when he took receipt 
of the vehicle. Hes clearly been inconvenienced  by these issues and I think, given the 
circumstances, that the investigators suggestion  is right and they should  pay him £300  to 
compensate him for this.
Ref: DRN29427533my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
refund  Mr Ls deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement
refund  the £401.85 Mr L had to pay to settle  his agreement and add 8% simple  
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
pay Mr L £300 to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2942753