K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy at how Marks  & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S) has administered 
his credit card.
background
Mr D opened a credit card account  with M&S in 2003. He fell into financial difficulties in 
2017. He says he contacted M&S  about  this, but they mixed  up his correspondence with a 
claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mr D has complained about the interest  rate hes been charged since  2003 and that M&S  
didnt respond  to him about his financial difficulties.  He feels  that, if theyd responded to him 
in September  2017, he wouldve avoided over £2,000 in charges, and he also wouldnt have 
spent almost £1,700  on his card after this date. Because  of this, he wants  M&S to 
substantially reduce his outstanding balance and agree  to a repayment plan.
Our investigator didnt  think that M&S knew about  Mr Ds financial difficulties until November  
2018, at which point they offered him assistance.  They sent him an income and expenditure 
form, so a repayment plan could be agreed,  and they placed  a 60-day hold on the account  
to give Mr D time to complete the form and contact them. She thought  this was reasonable. 
She didnt  think that, because Mr D was making payments on time and because of how he 
was using his account, M&S shouldve known he was in financial difficulties any earlier. 
The investigator also found that M&S had sent Mr D letters every  time his interest rate 
changed, to the address they had on file for him. Mr D was in Spain between  2005 and 
2008, and says he didnt receive  any letters, but the investigator didnt think  M&S could be 
held responsible for this. 
The last interest rate change on the account was on 1 December 2012  and M&S  write to 
customers 60 days before any change to let them know.  Because M&S didnt receive Mr Ds 
complaint about  the interest rate until 5 December 2018, the investigator said this complaint 
fell outside of our timescales to consider  its more  than six years after he wouldve  received 
the letter about the December 2012  interest rate change and, because the interest rate is 
also shown on each  of the monthly  statements he received, its more  than three  years  after 
when Mr D shouldve been reasonably  aware  of any earlier interest rate changes.
Because of this, the investigator didnt think M&S should do anything  more.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He finds it difficult  to accept that M&S failed to 
receive numerous letters  he sent by recorded delivery, failed to address his financial 
difficulties and failed  to properly record all telephone conversations   over the 27 month 
period. He also feels theyve mixed  up correspondence  between his PPI claim and his 
financial difficulties. Mr D has also said that, in May 2019, he asked M&S to correspond with 
him by email, but since that date they havent done so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN27079722Mr D contacted M&S about  a potential PPI claim in August 2017. Hes provided a copy of a 
letter addressed to M&S, dated 14 September 2017, which refers to the excessive amount 
of interest charges   over £3,000 a year. Mr D also asked for copies of his statements since  
the account was opened.  He says this letter was a cry for help  because  of his financial 
difficulties, which M&S  ignored and mixed up with his PPI claim.
While this letter raises the issue of the amount of interest Mr D has been charged, it doesnt 
say that he thinks  the interest rate is too high,  nor does it say that hes in financial difficulties 
and struggling  to maintain payments. But the letter does refer to a call of a few days ago. 
Ive listened to this call, which took place on 8 August 2017, and the call is about resetting 
his security so he can access his account online.  Mr D doesnt mention any financial 
difficulties in this call.
Mr D says he sent the letter by recorded delivery, but M&S say they didnt receive it. 
Because of the time passed, I cant confirm whether a recorded  delivery  letter was received 
or not  the Royal Mail doesnt keep  track  and trace records for this long. But, because 
M&S didnt  reply to the letter, or send Mr D the statements hed asked for, I think  its more 
likely than not they didnt receive the letter  Ive also seen all of the letters  sent and 
received about  the PPI claim, and this letter hasnt been mixed up with those.
Mr D says he spoke to M&S on 5 October  and 2 November 2017 about the 14 September  
letter, and they acknowledged receipt. Mr D has provided all of the numbers he may have 
been using at the time, but M&S  cant trace these calls. But Ive listened to a call that took 
place on 10 November 2017, when Mr D was told his PPI claim hadnt been  successful. On 
this call he was asked  if there was anything else M&S  could help him with. Mr D couldve 
asked about his letter, and when he was going to get a response;  or spoke about his 
financial difficulties. But instead he said there was nothing else he wanted  to discuss.
Mr D says he wrote to M&S again,  chasing up a response to his letter,  on both 5 December 
2017 and 27 February 2018. He also says he called M&S  several times between  these 
dates. M&S say they didnt receive these  letters, and they cant  trace these calls. Ive heard  
a call that took place on 21 March 2018,  where  Mr D wanted to discuss  the terms of his 
travel insurance. During this call he didnt  mention  that hed sent three  letters that hadnt 
been responded to, or that he was in any financial difficulties.
Mr D says he spoke to M&S in April and June  2018,  and he wrote to them  again on 15 June. 
Hes supplied a copy of this letter, which  refers  to serious shortcomings in the PPI claim, his 
concern over the interest  rate charged,  and his concern that M&S werent complying  with 
regulations for persistent  debt. Again  M&S cannot trace these calls, and have no record  of 
receiving the letter   the letter also isnt with the correspondence about his PPI claim.
Ive heard the calls Mr D had with M&S  on 9 August 2018 (about getting a replacement  card) 
and on 31 August 2018 (about his PPI claim). Mr D didnt  mention any of his letters  or any 
financial difficulties on these calls.  On the 31 August call, Mr D was specifically asked if there  
was anything else M&S could help him with, and he said no.
Mr D says he wrote to M&S again  on 5 September and 28 November 2018.  M&S received 
the 28 November  letter, which  enclosed copies of the 5 September  and 15 June 2018 
letters. This letter was received on 5 December 2018 and is the first time M&S  say they 
received Mr Ds letters about the interest rate and his financial difficulties. From what  Ive 
seen, I agree that this is the case.
Ref: DRN27079723I cant say why M&S didnt receive letters any earlier than 28 November 2018, and Ive not 
seen that anything was mixed  up with the PPI claim.  Ive listened  to a number of calls Mr D 
had with M&S and he had the opportunity to discuss his financial difficulties, and raise the 
issue that his letters  werent being responded to, every time he spoke  to them.  And he was 
prompted to discuss  anything else on some of these calls.  But Mr D didnt do so.
Because of this, I agree with the investigator  that M&S  have acted reasonably. Theyve 
offered Mr D assistance with his financial  difficulties,  although  Ive seen hes been reluctant  
to provide any income or expenditure details  (M&S would  need this information  to ensure 
that any arrangement  was suitable,  sustainable  and didnt put Mr D under  any unnecessary 
financial pressure) until this complaint has been  concluded. 
I also agree  that the complaint about  the interest rate changes  is out of time for us to 
consider. Mr D wouldve  been aware  of the rate he was being  charged from his monthly 
statements, and he wouldve been told about  the December 2012 changes  some two 
months before it happened.  But he didnt  raise this with M&S  until more than six years  later.
While I wont be asking M&S to do anything about the interest  Mr D is being charged,  or 
telling them to reduce his balance, I do expect them to work alongside Mr D and come  to a 
repayment plan which is mutually acceptable. I also expect  them  to consider  Mr Ds 
preferences when contacting him.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Marks & Spencer  
Financial Services Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2707972