K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Alliance  & Leicester 
Building Society, mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Santander. In 1996 they took out a further 
advance and at the time a PPI policy was also taken out. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr A was covered by the policy for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. If he had made  a successful  claim the policy would have paid 
out the monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  and so the matter  has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A have  said the policy was taken  out during a meeting.  Santander  no longer has 
any records of how the sale took place but it has considered the complaint as if it 
recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs A. This means it has to reasonable steps to ensure 
the policy was right for Mr and Mrs A. But, based  on what  Ive seen about Mr As 
circumstances at the time, I dont think the policy was right for him.
Santander has given  us a copy of the policy wording which  it says would have been the 
document applicable  at the time Mr and Mrs A took out the policy. On this document it states  
that cover  wont be provided  for any condition which you knew of, or should reasonably  
have known of, on the start date.
Mr A has told both us and Santander  that he had a pre-existing medical condition at the time 
of taking out the policy. And he has also told us that this ongoing condition  required him to 
take medication and he did have to take time off work. Mr A has been consistent with his 
explanation of his condition and therefore  I have no reason to doubt  what he has told us. I 
think its likely that any claim for sickness as a result  of this condition  would be excluded  as a 
result of the term stated  above. And I think this would have mattered to Mr A especially when 
considering the type of condition he was suffering from and the manual  nature of his 
profession.
Santander has said that any pre-existing conditions would have been  discussed at the time 
of the sale and it would have formed part of a suitability check to make sure the policy was 
right for Mr and Mrs A. It also said that the exclusion would have been discussed  with Mr A 
Ref: DRN25573102and he would have  received a leaflet with the information. While Ive noted  these comments,  
I dont have any evidence  to support that Santander  asked  questions about Mr As health at 
the time of the sale and, having  then found out about this condition,  it went  on to advise him 
that it was unlikely the policy would  have provided  cover for this. I dont think that, if Mr A had 
been told he wouldnt be covered for the condition he was suffering from, he would have 
thought this policy would have been  a good choice for him.
So when taking  everything Ive seen and been told into consideration, I dont think  
Mr and Mrs A would have gone  ahead with the PPI had Santander advised them, as it 
should have, that he wouldnt be covered for this condition. And so I think Mr and Mrs A have 
lost out as a result of what Santander did wrong.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and Santander 
should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each month for the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr and Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557310