K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd (trading as Marbles) was irresponsible when  it increased  
the credit  limit on his credit card account.  
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 July 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think Marbles had acted reasonably and 
fairly in increasing  the credit limit on Mr Ws credit card from £1200  to £2400. And I outlined  
the reasons why I was minded to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Marbles responded to say it had nothing further  to add. And Mr W stated that he thought  his 
Marbles account was linked to another NewDay credit card account he had, which  trades as 
a company that Ill refer to as A. So he felt that Marbles  should have been aware of how he 
was managing his account with A before increasing  his credit limit. He also felt Marbles 
should refund some  of the additional  payments he had made from the increased  minimum 
payment to reduce the balances further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was satisfied that Marbles decision to approve 
Mr Ws credit card application  was fair and reasonable. And I gave my reasons why I though 
Marbles had responsibly  assessed how much it was prepared  to lend Mr W from the date he 
opened his account until June 2018. 
After this date Marbles  increased Mr Ws credit limit from £1200 to £2400.  In my provisional  
decision I explained why I thought  this increase  was unfair and unaffordable  to Mr W. 
In summary,  I was concerned that this credit limit increase was over five times what it had 
been when Mr W had opened his account  eight months earlier. I also didnt think  Marbles  did 
enough to question Mr W about the way in which he was managing his account  particularly  
given the cash  advances and evidence of gambling  I could see on his statements. I 
explained why I thought  this sort of behaviour  should have  been  seen by Marbles  as a risk 
indicator that Mr W was showing signs of financial difficulty and why it shouldve been 
cautious about increasing Mr Ws his credit  limit in June 2018. 
In my provisional decision I outlined why I thought  a fuller  financial review wouldve been 
proportionate and appropriate before Marbles increased Mr Ws credit limit to £2400. I 
remain persuaded that if Marbles had looked at the way in which  Mr W was maintaining his 
account it wouldve, more  likely than not, noted  there were  indicators he might  be 
experiencing financial difficulties and falling  further  into debt from his gambling transactions 
and cash withdrawals. 
I also explained why I thought proportionate  checks and a fuller  financial review of Mr Ws 
expenditure and borrowing elsewhere wouldve presented a picture of someone in clear 
Ref: DRN27468282financial difficulties. Mr W thinks  Marbles shouldve looked into how he was managing  his 
credit card account with A. But Marbles and A are completely separate accounts.  Because of 
this theyre assessed  individually in relation  to credit limit increases. So, Marbles would only 
have known about Mr Ws debt elsewhere  if it had undertaken a fuller financial review. To 
reassure Mr W though,  Ive already addressed  this point in my provisional  decision. I say this 
because I explained  that if Marbles had undertaken a fuller review I didnt think it wouldve 
increased Mr Ws credit limit in June 2018.
I remain persuaded that the resolution I suggested in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable. It recognises that Marbles made an error in increasing Mr Ws credit limit to 
£2400. But it also acknowledges  that Mr W used the money that the limit increases made 
available to him. 
Mr W has said he thinks Marbles should refund some  of the additional  payment he made 
from the increased minimum payments to reduce his balances further. But, as I explained in 
my provisional decision, if it did this it would mean  that Mr Ws debt would be outstanding for 
longer. So, with that in mind, Im not going  to tell Marbles to refund any minimum payment  
differences Mr W made.
Im grateful  to Mr W for his comments. But I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (T/A Marbles) should  do the 
following to resolve  this complaint:
reconstruct Mr Ws account to refund  all interest  and charges incurred on any 
balance above  £1200;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file about this account 
from June 2018. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
copy provisional decision 9 July 2019
complaint
Mr W complains  that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) was irresponsible when it increased the credit 
limit on his credit card account. 
background
Mr W applied for a credit  card with Marbles in October 2017. Based on the information  he gave it, 
Marbles accepted his application and gave him a credit  limit of £450.  
Ref: DRN27468283In February 2018 Marbles increased his credit  limit to £1200. And in June  2018 it increased his limit to 
£2400. Marbles said Mr W was given  the opportunity to opt out of the increases before they took 
effect and didnt do so.
But Mr W said his cash transactions exceeded the value of retail transactions  on his card because he 
was regularly using his credit card for cash advances and to fund gambling.  And he also said after his 
credit limit was increased in February 2018 he exceeded his credit limit twice, which incurred over 
limit fees.  After his June 2018 credit limit increase took effect Mr W said he spent up to the new 
available limit quickly. 
Mr W complained to Marbles that it had substantially  increased his credit limits twice within  a short 
period of time, which he said was irresponsible and led to financial difficulties. But Marbles rejected  
Mr Ws complaint.  It said that, each time it had offered him a credit limit increase,  he had been given 
the option  to decline  the increase. And it said it was satisfied  he could afford  the borrowing  so it 
thought it had lent responsibly  and didnt  think it had done  anything  wrong. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Marbles response so he brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
empathised with Mr W and thought that Marbles  hadnt acted fairly  or undertaken proportionate 
checks before it increased Mr Ws credit  limit in June 2018. They werent persuaded that Marbles had 
lent responsibly here.  And to put matters right they thought 
Marbles should  return Mr W to the positon he wouldve been in had the second credit limit increase 
not have taken  place. But Marbles  disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred  to an 
ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while Im minded to uphold this complaint  Im 
departing from the view our adjudicator reached about how to put matters right. Ill explain why.
Marbles is required  to lend responsibly. Before agreeing to lend, it shouldve  assessed the 
affordability of credit to ensure that Mr W could repay what he was borrowing. Its up to Marbles to 
decide what  checks it carries  out. But, they must be proportionate  to things such  as the amount 
borrowed, the cost of repayment and a customers  borrowing history.  We cant say a lender shouldve 
done any particular  check and there isnt a set list of checks needed.
When Mr W opened  his account with Marbles  he had a large amount of unsecured debt. But this 
wouldnt necessarily mean Marbles decision  to approve his credit card application  was wrong.  It 
offers cards  to people who want to improve  their credit rating  because  they have poor or absent credit 
history. So it wouldnt be unusual for a Marbles  customer to have debts pre-existing  elsewhere, or for 
it to decline lending just for this reason.
Before approving Mr Ws application Marbles  said it made a credit assessment   using its own 
internal risk strategies  and assessing information supplied by Mr W and credit reference agencies. It 
said that, after doing  so, it was satisfied he met its lending  criteria.  Given  this, and the relatively  small 
amount of credit Marbles  offered him, I think it was reasonable for it to have accepted his initial 
application with a relatively small credit limit.
Before it changes  a customers  credit limit, Marbles said it reviews how theyre  using their card and 
managing their account. It says it makes risk based assessments  to ensure its lending is appropriate 
to a customers financial  circumstances. It says these checks were undertaken before it increased Mr 
Ws limit in February by £750 and June 2018 by a further £1200.  And it says Mr W met the criteria to 
qualify for an increase on each occasion.  
Ive seen the terms  and conditions of Mr Ws credit card account. These state that Marbles will decide  
the credit limit and may change it at any time. Its clear  from these  terms that a customer can tell 
Ref: DRN27468284Marbles not to increase  their credit limit and say they dont want  to be considered for any future 
increases. Its also clear  that a customer can ask Marbles, at any time, to reduce their credit limit.
Marbles said before it made changes to Mr Ws credit limit it wrote to him in accordance with these 
terms. And, having seen the correspondence  Marbles  sent him, I can see these letters  told him it was 
going to increase his limit. They also advised him to think about whether  the proposed increases were  
affordable to him and what he should do if he didnt  want the increase or wanted to opt out of future 
increases. I understand  Mr W didnt reject either increase  that Marbles proposed. 
Having looked at Mr Ws credit card statements, I can see that prior to Marbles increasing  his credit 
limit in February 2018 he was making  payments to his account on time and in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account. While he had used his credit  card to withdraw cash  four times in November 
and December  2017  there were  no cash advances in January and February 2018. There were  also 
no over limit fees as Mr Ws account remained within its credit limit prior to Februarys credit limit 
increase. So, I dont  think  Marbles  acted unreasonably  in increasing Mr Ws credit  limit in February 
2018.
But immediately after this increase Mr W exceeded his new credit limit and I can see five cash 
advances and gambling  transactions recorded on his statement for that month. Two months later Mr 
W exceeded his credit limit again and I can see he was using his card to withdraw  cash and fund 
gambling. Its clear that using his card in this way was what  caused him to exceed his credit limit and 
incur over-limit  fees during those months.
I think  this is enough  given  the timing of the credit limit increases  for Marbles to have reasonably  
had concerns about whether  it would  be right to increase Mr Ws credit limit again   in June 2018. 
And, even though Mr W was maintaining  his monthly payments, I think  Marbles had good reason  to 
question him about the way in which he was managing his account.
Cash advances incur a very high rate of interest. The UK Cards Association best practice  guidelines 
on credit card limit increases  issued  in 2011 points to this sort of behaviour as being a risk indicator 
that a customer  is showing signs of financial difficulty.
And in July 2018, after the second credit limit increase,  Mr W quickly spent up to his credit limit and 
used his credit card to make  seven cash advances and gambling transactions. So, I think there was a 
pattern of cash withdrawals  and gambling  transactions set against an ever increasing balance. 
The second  credit limit increase was over five times what it had been when Mr W had opened his 
account eight months earlier. It follows that Im not persuaded that this second increase was 
affordable. 
While its clear that Mr W didnt decline the increases Marbles offered  him I think  the way in which  he 
was managing his account shouldve made  Marbles  cautious about  increasing  his credit limit in June 
2018. 
Marbles said it followed  its lending process in assessing whether the credit limit increases it gave Mr 
W were affordable to him. And I think asking questions about how Mr W was utilising his credit facility 
could reasonably have been a part of this. Sometimes simply following a normal  process  will result in 
an unfair outcome  for a customer. I think thats what happened here.
I say this because I think a fuller financial review wouldve been proportionate and appropriate by this 
point. And I think if Marbles had looked at the way in which Mr W was maintaining his account  it 
wouldve, more likely than not, noted there were indicators he might be experiencing financial  
difficulties and falling further into debt from his gambling transactions and cash withdrawals. 
Had Marbles  undertaken proportionate checks and a fuller financial review of Mr Ws expenditure  and 
borrowing elsewhere,  I think  this wouldve presented a picture of someone in clear  financial 
difficulties. And I believe  this wouldve most likely deterred it from increasing  Mr Ws credit limit in 
Ref: DRN27468285June 2018. Im not persuaded that a reasonable lender, even  one that targeted the same customer  
demographic as Marbles, wouldve made the same decision to increase his credit limit in such 
circumstances. So, I dont think  Marbles acted reasonably in approving  the increase  it gave  Mr W in 
June 2018. 
I understand Mr W didnt notify Marbles that he was experiencing financial  difficulties until he made 
his complaint. But for the reasons outlined, I also think Marbles  shouldve recognised  Mr W was 
experiencing financial difficulties before this point. And I think it missed an opportunity to do so in 
June 2018 when it shouldve undertaken a more detailed financial  review before  increasing Mr Ws 
credit limit. 
In thinking about whats fair to put this right for Mr W, Ive taken  into consideration that he used the 
money that the limit increases made available to him. And while our adjudicator  recommended  
Marbles refund £1200 of the credit limit it gave Mr W in June 2018 I dont think  that would be fair as 
his spending above £1200 ought to be repaid. But I also dont think  its fair for Mr W to have been 
disadvantaged by the interest and charges that he incurred on any balance above £1200 because I 
dont think Marbles should have given  him the second credit limit increase.
With this in mind, I think  Marbles should reconstruct Mr Ws account as though the credit limit 
increase from £1200 to £2400 hadnt taken place. It should recalculate the interest payable as if it was 
based on a credit limit of £1200 and refund  all interest and charges  it applied  to Mr Ws account  on 
any balance above that limit.
At this point in time Im not minded to ask Marbles to refund any minimum payment differences  Mr W 
made as our adjudicator suggested in their view because this will mean that his debt would be 
outstanding for longer. But Marbles should also remove any adverse  information recorded about this 
account from Mr Ws credit file from June 2018. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (T/A Marbles) should 
do the following to resolve this complaint:
reconstruct Mr Ws account  to refund all interest and charges  incurred on any balance above 
£1200;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file about  this account  from June 
2018. 
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2746828