K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Mr A, in his own capacity and on behalf  of the late Mrs A and her estate, says that 
Bradford & Bingley  plc (B&B) mis-sold them the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A were  sold the policy in 1990 when they applied for a further  advance. B&B 
says the policy cost just over £26 per month and it only covered Mr A against accident and 
sickness.
Unhappy with B&Bs answer to the complaint, Mr A referred it to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been  mis-sold.
However, Mr A disagreed  with what our adjudicator had to say. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in February  2019  a copy  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. I wasnt persuaded the policy had been mis-sold. So I didnt 
think B&B owed Mr A and Mrs As estate any money.
In response to my PD, neither party asked me to consider any new information and/or 
arguments. So, with that being the case,  Ive decided to go ahead  and issue my final 
decision now that the deadline in my PD has passed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account  in deciding 
this case.
And having done all of that, I still dont think the policy was mis-sold  for the same reasons 
Ive already given.  So heres  a summary.
As I said in my PD, Im not persuaded that theres the evidence to argue its more likely
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree to take the policy or that they did so under the impression (given 
by B&B) that they had to. 
Im not persuaded B&B recommended the PPI  which means  it didnt have to ensure  the 
policy was suitable  for Mr A given his circumstances and, to some extent, those of Mrs A. 
But B&B did have to make sure Mr and Mrs A got the information  they needed to decide  that 
for themselves. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what  Mr A has told us about  his circumstances at the time, 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so 
it could have been useful if something went wrong.  And there isnt the evidence to persuade  
me that better information  about the PPI would have led Mr and Mrs A to make  a different 
decision and not take the policy  given their financial circumstances.
Ref: DRN25229192my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A  in his own 
capacity and on behalf of the late Mrs A and her estate  to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 May 2019
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25229193copy  of my provisional  decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint  including all of the complaint points made by Mr A.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this complaint.
And having done that, I dont currently think the policy  was mis-sold. I realise this will be 
disappointing. But I hope Mr A will understand why.
There is little information available in this complaint  which, while  a challenge, isnt unusual  or 
unreasonable given how much time has passed since  the event in question. But when evidence is 
incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to make my decision based on what I 
think is more  likely to have happened however limited the information might be.
Mr A made a number of points when this complaint was first made  including  the assertion that the 
policy was sold to him and Mrs A unknowingly. However, in response to our adjudicators 
assessment, he seemed to acknowledge  that the policy  was sold to them  on the back of a 
recommendation  which suggests hes no longer  disputing knowledge  of the sale.
However, Mr A also contended that B&B didnt make it clear to him and Mrs A that the policy was 
optional. So I have, nonetheless, considered the way in which the policy  was sold with this in mind. 
I dont doubt the honesty of Mr As recollection. But the policy was sold nearly 30 years ago; a 
timeframe I have to consider when weighing  up whats likely to have happened. Theres nothing in the 
application form for the further advance to suggest  that the borrowing was in some way contingent  on 
PPI. And, while the form is difficult  to decipher  in places, it does look like Mr and Mrs A agreed to take 
the policy  just before  signing  a declaration for the further borrowing.
So, overall,  Im not persuaded at present that theres the evidence to argue that 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree to take PPI or that they did so under  the impression  (given by B&B) that 
they had to. 
  
Mr A says that B&B recommended the policy while B&B says that it didnt. Theres nothing in the 
available paperwork to suggest the PPI was recommended. And with little compelling evidence to 
suggest otherwise, Im not persuaded  it was  such that B&B had to make sure the policy was right 
for Mr A given  his circumstances and, to some extent, those of Mrs A. 
However, B&B still had to give Mr and Mrs A the information  they needed to decide  for themselves  
whether taking the policy  was the right decision.
I know that Mr A was self-employed  when  the policy  was sold. And I understand why he makes the 
argument that his employment status made it difficult to claim. But the policy  didnt include 
unemployment cover.  So he wasnt affected in the way he says he was.
Given what little insight there is into what happened in 1990, it is possible the information  B&B gave  
Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. This includes the information  on 
the monthly cost and the benefit of the policy. But B&B says that Mr and Mrs A chose their level of 
cover. And as its provided us with some information to suggest that they could have done that, I dont  
have a compelling reason  to doubt or disbelieve B&B when it says that they did.
Whats more, it doesnt  look like Mr A was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. 
And as Mr and Mrs A were adding to a long-term  and significant financial commitment secured 
against their home,  their repayments were important repayments  to maintain had Mr A found  himself 
unable to work. So I think  they would  have found the policy useful had something gone wrong. 
Ref: DRN25229194With that said, therefore, Im not currently persuaded that theres enough evidence to argue  that 
better information about the PPI would have led Mr and Mrs A to make a different decision and not 
take the policy.
Ref: DRN2522919