K820x#14complaint
Miss J complaints about charges  Ald Automotive Limited (AA Ltd) wants her to pay when 
she returned her car. She doesnt believe  she owes anything and wants  the £206 charges 
waived, an apology and £100 for stress.  
background
Miss J took out an interest free hire purchase  agreement on 18 February 2016 for a used  
car. Miss Js car was returned following an inspection by British  Car Auctions "BCA" on 22 
February 2018. BCA identified  a number of damages but the only one AA Ltd charged for 
was damage to the near side rear quarter  panel  for £206. It said the scratches exceeded the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association "BVRLA" guidelines  and so it was fair to ask 
her to pay for the damage.
Miss J did not think she should  have to pay anything as the car interior was very good and 
she had only driven 10,000 miles  in 2 years.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint  as he was satisfied  the damage was 
chargeable under the BVRLA guidelines,  notwithstanding that the interior was in good  
condition and she only drove 10,000 miles.  He noted  that the BVRLA industry  standards  
state that under 'paintwork, body,  bumpers and trim' it details under section 'moulding,
Wheel arch trims' "scuffs and scratches  up to 25mm are acceptable providing the moulding 
or trim is not broken, cracked  or deformed".  The adjudicator looked at the photograph  of the 
damage and could see substantial damage around  the wheel arch which appeared to 
exceed 25mm.  Although  this was a used  car, he didnt think  the scratches were consistent 
with fair wear and tear and so were chargeable.
Miss J was unhappy with this view and noted that the man who collected  the car said the 
scratch was insignificant. She didnt think she should have to pay anything and asked for the 
case to be looked  at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator for the same reasons.
The damage was noted in the collection report and although the person  collecting the car 
may have  said the scratch  was insignificant,  AA Ltd explained that it is not the responsibility 
of the person collecting the car to decide what is chargeable. I accept that this person didnt 
have authority to decide what was chargeable. Their role was to collect the car and identify 
any damage which they did.  AA ltd have based  its charges  on BVRLA guidelines,  and I 
agree with the investigator that the photographic evidence does indicate  a scratch over 25 
mm.
AA Ltd has the right to charge for damage  that is more  than fair wear and tear and on 
balance, having  looked at the photographs and considered the BVRLA  guidelines; I am 
satisfied the damage  falls outside fair wear and tear and so is chargeable. 
Ref: DRN24053362I know this will be disappointing to Miss J as the interior was in very good  condition  and she 
had only driven  10,000,  but there is still chargeable damage.
AA Ltd explained how they arrived at the figure of £206 for putting  right the damage,  based 
on its experience of dealing with such scratches.  In the circumstances  I do not think  AA Ltd 
has done anything  wrong by charging  Miss J.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 
19 March 2019.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405336