K821x#15complaint
Miss Gs complaint is about the refusal  of her claim under her bicycle insurance with Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  earlier in January 2020, part of which  is copied  
below: 
Miss Gs bicycle  was stolen from the communal storage area of her accommodation  in
September 2018 and so she made a claim under her policy  with Red Sands. There was a
concierge on duty who had apparently seen two men acting suspiciously just before the bike
was stolen but was unable to prevent the theft.  However, Red Sands refused to meet the
claim on the basis that the bike had not been  stored  in accordance  with the terms of the
policy. In particular, it says she needed  to have  stored her bike in her apartment or in a
secure storage  facility.
Miss G is very unhappy about this. She says she wasnt  told about this requirement when
she took out the policy. Miss G also points out that the policy  covers  her bike when away
from your home and as it was not in her home,  it should be covered under that section of
cover.
Red Sands  says that the definitions [section]  of the policy   explained what [it] considered  
her home, or alternative means of secure storage  and that Miss G had agreed to the terms 
of the policy  when she bought it. It also said the away from your home clause couldnt be 
used because the bike was stored in Miss Gs residential building, so felt she wasnt actually 
away from home when the theft took place.
Red Sands  says as with any contract, Miss G should have checked all the policy terms
before taking it out, or at least  during  the cooling off period immediately afterwards. Indeed,
she had to confirm  she had read and understood all the policy terms before being allowed to
proceed to pay for the policy in the online application  process. She was therefore  adequately
informed about  the terms. Given this, she should  have been  aware  that it doesnt underwrite
the risk of a bike stored outside in a communal area and this scenario is expressly excluded
by this policy.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and determined that it should be upheld  and
Red Sands  should  meet  the claim,  as he did not think the security requirements had been
adequately bought to Ms Gs attention when she bought the policy.
Red Sands  does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been referred
to me. Red Sands  has made a number of submissions in response, which  Ive summarised
below:
Miss G has effectively  admitted  that she did not read the policy at all  this omission
cannot be attributed to Red Sands.
Miss G simply did not comply with the primary terms  of the policy.  This policy is
designed to underwrite  the security risk a bicycle presents in a modern urban
environment and Miss G was obliged to secure her bike in accordance with the
primary definition of Your Home in the policy.
It is not relying on any exclusion in the policy but rather the fact that Miss G has failed
to comply with the policy, as the bike was not left in an approved  location. No
Ref: DRN26617132insured event occurred.  It specifically  approves locations other than the residential
home, for storage of a bike, which are set out in detail in the policy, so it cannot
legally have an insurable interest  in a theft which occurs  outside the approved
locations. Miss G had a unilateral obligation to comply with the policy  terms.
The policyholders attention is expressly  and repeatedly drawn to the provisions
which speak to those  obligations when choosing an approved location other than
their residential home.
The documents sent to Miss G inform her to consider the entire  contract and warns
of the implications of not considering all the relevant terms.  The first sentence of the
Policy Statement states: This  document,  together with Your  application for cover and
Schedule forms the policy and should be read as one document. The Schedule
contains information about You, Your Bicycle, Your Accessories, the Period of
Insurance and the premium. It is up to You to ensure  that the cover You have
selected is appropriate for Your  needs.
The Key Facts Sheets  is only a summary  of the key policy  features, benefits  and any
significant limits or exclusions. The policyholder should read the policy documents  for
full details of the cover.  Miss Gs compliance with the primary terms of the policy is a
legal pre-requisite  to cover.
Given the contractual implications for any consumer, the detail of the definition of
home cannot be condensed any further than it is and a consumer cannot be
excused from reading it.
In this internet  era any discerning consumer will research the form of cover they
require in advance; and any prudent consumer  will familiarize themselves with the
post-purchase documents they subsequently receive.
It has facilitated easy and public access to the underwriting terms it offers and the
design of those documents is easily understood in plain and simple language.
As the relevant definition is to the forefront of the policy wording along with the
warning of the necessity  to read the wording as it applies to any individual consumer,
we believe that we have provided  adequate  and substantial sign-posting to direct
a consumer to their own obligations.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands  makes much of Miss Gs obligation to examine the contract and satisfy herself of
the terms. Of course there  is some responsibility  on consumers to try and understand what
they are buying.  However, those selling insurance has a greater responsibility to make  sure
that a policyholder is aware of any significant  or unusual policy terms that might  affect  their
decision to buy the policy. As the policy was sold online, there  was no opportunity to verbally
explain the terms of cover to Miss G. I therefore need to look at how clear the application
process was and how clear the documents provided were  - both in terms of the language
used but also the prominence of significant and important terms. The more  significant,
unusual or onerous  a policy  term the greater the effort to bring it to the consumers attention
should be. This means not just writing in clear and unambiguous language but also how
prominently important terms are placed  and how each term is read in the context of the
whole policy, so that a consumer can understand easily how the policy will work  in practice.
Contrary to what Red Sands has said therefore,  it is not for policyholders to plough  through
Ref: DRN26617133all the documents  in order to get a clear understanding of the main terms of cover.
I consider that a term which  potentially removes all cover,  while at home, for Miss G and
other consumers living  in flats or shared accommodation is a significant  one. It may not be
unusual but it is significant. Red Sands therefore  had a duty to make this sufficiently clear  to
Miss G when  she took out the policy.
When Miss G bought the policy, Red Sands  sent a welcome letter  with a copy of the policy
schedule, policy wording  and key facts. Miss G was asked to make sure she had the correct
bike lock, to send  proof  of ownership  and to check the policy  wording to make sure she
complied with bike security.  Miss G provided  the proof of ownership and lock details.
The welcome letter also says cover is subject to compliance with the bicycle security
conditions set out in the policy. However, there is no bicycle  security section in the
documents sent to Miss G and so it is not clear  what Red Sands is referring  her to. It would
not be unreasonable to assume it meant the specific  bike lock requirements.
The policy document provides cover for theft of the bike but goes on to list the exclusions
that would  apply to that section of cover. It excludes  any claim for:
theft from Your Home where Your Bicycle and/or Accessories is stored outside Your Home.
This is the eleventh exclusion  under the section of cover for theft, on page 12 of the 26 page
policy document. I do not consider this to be the forefront of the policy wording, as claimed
by Red Sands. The policy holder is then required to go back  to page nine of the document
to read the definition  of Your Home, which is as follows:
Your Home  means the location,  as stated on Your Schedule, where Your  Bicycle  is 
normally
kept and meets the requirements of one of the following;  a brick, concrete or stone house of
standard construction with a slate,  tiled or multi  layered  roof;
a) a self-contained flat within a brick, concrete or stone building  of standard construction  with
a slate, tiled or multi layered roof;
b) a self-contained lockable private  room  in the halls of residence in which You reside.
c) a privately  accessed, fully enclosed, outbuilding or garage built of brick, concrete or stone
and roofed with slate, tiles or multi  layered roof; attached to or within  the boundaries of a
private house securely locked by a minimum of a 5 lever Mortice or Chubb  deadlock to
BS3621 standard or a CEN Grade 3 closed shackle  padlock and have securely  locked
windows.
d) a privately accessed and securely locked wooden shed, within the secured boundaries of
Your primary residence provided Your Bicycle is secured therein to an Immovable Object
through the frame and any quick release wheels with an Approved  Lock.
As the bike was outside Miss Gs home and not secured in a shed, outbuilding or private
storage room, Red Sands refused the claim.
Red Sands  has said it is not relying on an exclusion to refuse  cover  but rather  Miss G has
simply failed to comply with a policy condition to store the bike in an approved location. I see
no basis for it saying this. It is clearly relying  on the above exclusion and there is no
approved location  provision in the policy.
If the above exclusion were to be applied in the way Red Sands has done,  it effectively
Ref: DRN26617134removes all cover for Miss G while she is at home  because she couldnt  comply with it
given her accommodation - so she would only be covered while  away  from home.  There is
no doubt therefore that this is a significant term because of its potentially significant effect on
the cover  being  provided. It should therefore have featured in the key terms.
Instead Miss G would have had to read across  to the policy definitions to understand  that
Your Home was intended to mean that she could  not leave her bike in a communal area,
even if it were locked securely to an immovable object.
Red Sands  says it would  not be able to condense the definition of home  any more than it
was in order to include it in the key facts document. I consider it would be relatively easy to
make clear  to a consumer  that theft of the bike from a shared/communal area while at home
would be excluded from cover.
Ive considered Red Sands point that Miss G didnt meet  her obligations under the policy to
keep her bike safe. Ive also seen  that Red Sands is willing  to cover  bikes  away  from home
where they are properly  secured. So, if the bike had been stolen when  left secured in exactly
the same  way while Miss G was visiting a friend  in similar accommodation, her claim would
have been covered.
Given the context  of a policy which does cover  bikes left away  from home  in public areas
and that I do not think the terms were adequately clear, I do not consider it is fair and
reasonable to apply  the term in the way Red Sands has. I consider it should meet the claim,
subject to the excess. Given the time that has passed, Miss G my have already replaced her
bike and so a cash settlement  may be appropriate.
I also consider that Red Sands should pay £150 compensation for the trouble caused to
Miss G by incorrectly  refusing the claim.
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint  against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited and require
it to:
meet Miss Gs claim, in line with the remaining terms  of the policy. If she has already
replaced her bike and it therefore makes a cash in lieu payment in settlement of the
claim, it should also add interest at 8% simple per annum on the settlement from the
date of the claim to the date of reimbursement;  and
pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
unreasonable refusal of her claim.
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any additional evidence  or 
arguments they want considered. Both Red Sands and Miss G have confirmed they accept  
my provisional decision and have nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ref: DRN26617135Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  confirmed they accept  my provisional decision and no new information 
has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
final decision 
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I uphold this complaint against  Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited and require it to:
meet Miss Gs claim, in line with the remaining terms  of the policy. If she has already
replaced her bike and it therefore makes a cash in lieu payment in settlement of the
claim, it should also add interest at 8% simple per annum on the settlement from the
date of the claim to the date of reimbursement;  and
pay £150 compensation for the distress an inconvenience caused by its
unreasonable refusal of her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2661713