K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  about  the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. dealt with her claim under travel insurance policy for medical 
assistance and associated costs following a road traffic accident when she was travelling 
abroad.   Miss A is represented by her father Mr A.                                                                                                                        
background
On 8 December  2016 near the end of her years trip, Miss A was involved in a serious  road 
traffic accident in Australia where  she sustained significant injuries.  Given  their serious and 
life threatening  nature, she was airlifted to hospital  and operated  on twice within the first 
week. She was then discharged after two weeks to undergo  rehabilitation and at that time 
was wheelchair  bound and non-weight bearing in order that her fractures  healed.  Further 
operations were anticipated  throughout the healing processes.
On hearing of their daughters accident, Mr A informed Mapfre and arranged  for himself and 
Mrs A to fly out to be with their daughter. As Miss A was being treated in a state  hospital,  
there were no medical fees or costs for Mapfre to pay or negotiate with the doctors treating 
her. Consequently, what was required was assistance for Mr and Mrs A in attending their 
daughter and obviously getting Miss A back to the UK, along with the loss of her phone, 
which was destroyed  in the accident.
From the beginning,  it seemed there were communication  difficulties between  Mr A and 
Mapfre with Mapfre insisting on being given a police report before it would decide whether it 
would provide cover. However,  it seems in Australia police reports arent readily available 
and it was several weeks before Miss A could obtain  it. Mapfre  in the meantime had one of 
its own doctors attend Miss A and he deemed her fit to fly on 3 February  2017  whilst still she 
was still in a wheelchair and with a nurse attendant for the flight.  However Miss A wished to 
recuperate and have  her remaining surgery completed in Australia with the medical  team 
who was familiar with her extensive injuries. Mapfre  decided on the basis of the police  
report, when it finally  became  available, to withdraw  all assistance and refuse to provide 
cover for her claim. This is because Miss A received a minor fine for an infringement  of 
careless driving from the policy  of AU$100. Mapfres policy excludes payment of any claim 
resulting from the policyholder being  involved  in any malicious, reckless,  illegal  or criminal 
act.
Miss A eventually returned  to the UK at the end of June 2017, which was arranged  and paid 
for by her father. She subsequently  considered  that she should  be paid under the Permanent  
and Total Disablement part of the policy, along with repayments towards  her student loan.
As Mapfre didnt pay any part of her claim other than £100  compensation, Miss A brought  
her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it was reasonable or fair for Mapfre  to 
refuse cover on the basis of this fine and so thought Mapfre should  pay Miss As claim up to 
the point Mapfres  doctor  deemed her fit to fly including her phone  claim since  it was 
destroyed in the accident. And to pay her £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
Mapfre maintained  it was entitled refuse her claim because of the fine that Miss A received.  
It was concerned it hadnt received full details of Miss As motor policy in Australia but it 
agreed with the investigators view of what should be paid for the claim but for its reliance on 
the fine to avoid liability. Mr A said he partly  agreed  with the investigators view but felt some 
Ref: DRN22065652of her calculations was based on incomplete  information. I will deal with both parties  issues  
more fully below.  But as neither party agreed  with the investigators recommendations, Miss 
As complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part and Ill now explain why.
There are several issues, which I will take in turn as follows:
Mapfres refusal to provide cover due to Miss As infringement  for careless driving.
Its clear that what happened to Miss A was a result of a road traffic accident. It appears she 
took some  avoiding action since she said the oncoming truck carrying  a significant load was 
in the middle of the road and sadly that avoiding  action didnt work and both vehicles were 
involved in a head on collision  where Miss As car was completely destroyed  and she 
suffered extensive  injuries. She was driving to work  early in the morning and the police 
deemed it was unnecessary to check for alcohol  or drugs.  
No legal action  appears to have  been taken by Miss A against the driver of the truck  for her 
personal injury and consequent losses yet and it doesnt appear the driver and/or passenger  
of the truck (both of whom  were uninjured) have taken any legal action against Miss A. The 
police decided to issue a minor fine to Miss A as a result of this accident  for a careless 
driving infringement  of only AU$100. Whether such a fine will have any bearing in any such 
legal action isnt known, and the legal liability of fault and negligence for this accident  
remains as yet unknown.  However, the policy report does call her culpable.  
Mapfres policy in common with many  other  travel  policies  has a term, which excludes the 
following:
Any claim that results  from you being involved in any malicious, reckless, illegal or 
criminal act.
In order to rely on this, the burden  of proof  is on Mapfre to show  Miss A was involved in such 
activity and I dont  think it has. Miss A was driving  to work and at worst took some  avoiding 
action given oncoming truck, which went wrong and the accident happened.  Given the police 
didnt deem  it necessary  to check her alcohol/drug levels, no inference can be made 
concerning that. 
The police gave  Miss A from what I can gather the lowest  infringement fine possible, which  
appears to be recorded  on Miss As driving  record, rather like the UK points system. That in 
my view does  not show Miss A was involved in anything malicious, reckless, illegal or thats 
a criminal act. The police  report confirms  no charges  were levied against Miss A for the 
accident and as such, it appears there was no conviction. Therefore, I consider Mapfre was 
unreasonable and unfair  to rely on this clause in the circumstances  of this claim.
So it follows  that cover  ought to have been confirmed by Mapfre.
Delay in providing  cover
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Ref: DRN22065653Mapfre was insistent on awaiting  the police report before deciding whether it would provide 
cover under this policy. However, it failed to realise from its own people  in Australia that 
police reports arent routinely available, as they are elsewhere. I found  its continual chasing 
of Miss A and her parents  for the police report to be excessive and unreasonable, given this. 
I also consider more could have been done  by its own agents to clarify the situation too. 
Miss As injuries, as Mapfre knew were both extensive and indeed  life changing.
As early as 14 December  according to its file, Mapfre  was aware of the situation of the 
difficulty in obtaining  a police report.  It then failed to apply for one itself despite knowing how 
to do so. By 9 January,  Mapfre  was fully aware that it might be better for Miss A to get the 
police report herself. But considering she was wheelchair bound  and unable to weight bear 
at that time that was obviously going  to be almost impossible for her to do at that time. 
Therefore, a full explanation to Miss A and her parents from Mapfre about this would have 
been warranted at this time, instead  of fruitlessly demanding  Miss A needed to get it. 
I consider its communications to Miss A of 13 and 18 January, to be unfair and unreasonable 
in view of the fact it first had already  agreed with Miss A to wait until 19 January for further 
contact. Also, it knew the difficulties with both the police report  and getting medical updates  
from the hospital, since the hospital  had politely told it to go away. 
It also failed to explain properly what its role was in providing assistance to Miss A, without 
being able to confirm cover. Its clear from the correspondence that Miss A didnt  understand 
any fitness to fly certificate was needed, or that Mapfres  assistance to Miss A was just to 
get her home once  she was deemed fit to fly. But in view of the fact that Mapfre  wasnt 
incurring the liability  of any medical expenses  for Miss As treatment, I consider its 
persistence at times to be unreasonable.
However, I do appreciate  its need to have known  the medical status  of Miss A and further  
requiring details of her motor insurance. This is because if the other  driver was deemed at all 
responsible for causing the accident in a negligence action, then Mapfre is entitled to recoup 
its outlay in the same proportion of the other drivers liability for the accident. This is fully 
detailed in its policy. And I note to date, the full details of Miss As motor  policy  do not appear 
to have been given to Mapfre  and it ought  to be. Instead, all thats been given is a receipt of 
payment for the insurance. If its the case that the terms of Miss As motor  policy  cover are 
freely available, then I consider Mapfre should  then have the relevant details. But if its the 
case that further documentation  exists  concerning  Miss As motor  policy  then I consider that 
Miss A should pass those  documents to Mapfre.
Its clear early on in this claim that relations between Mapfre, Mr A and indeed Miss A broke 
down. Mr A believed her insurance  would cover whatever costs he incurred and Mapfre  
simply got stuck  in wanting the police report when it knew it was simply unavailable due to 
however these things  are dealt with in Australia,  which it ought to have known in any event.  
Therefore I consider  the investigators view for Mapfre to pay Miss A £300 compensation 
inclusive of the £100 previously offered to be reasonable, given its clear both Miss A and Mr 
A were very distressed  at times by the continual demands for a police report that wasnt  then 
available.
Fitness to fly
Mr A believes Miss A wasnt  fit to fly until June 2017  when he arranged to fly her home to the 
UK. However, in travel claims, its the insurer who determines fitness  to fly bearing in the 
Ref: DRN22065654medical evidence.  This is because its the travel insurer who normally  arranges  the 
repatriation and pays the costs of it, and furthermore has doctors  available who are 
specialist aviation  medical professionals.
Mapfre had its own doctor  assess Miss A (in the presence of her mother) on 2 February 
2017 where she was deemed fit to fly with her mother attending  and a nurse  escort.  And 
had Miss A been  willing to return home  then,  Ive no doubt Mapfre  would have organised  it, 
subject to the cover issue.
When Miss A returned home in June,  it was done  with two stopovers and added costs  along 
with Mr A also being in attendance, as I understand. Therefore, Mapfres refund of this cost 
should only be up the limit of what  its doctor  said was required.
Total disablement claim and payment of student  loan
I agree  with investigators analysis of this portion of Miss As claim. There  is no medical 
evidence available  that Miss A might meet this policys  definition  of permanent  total 
disability. Therefore, it also follows that the claim as regards any repayment of her student 
loan is not payable either.
The rest of the costs  claimed
As Miss A was deemed fit to fly by Mapfres doctor as of 3 February 2017, I consider it 
reasonable, except  for the refund of her eventual return  back to the UK (as detailed  above) 
that Mapfre is under no duty to pay any expenses for after 3 February 2017. The policy  
clearly explains that Mapfres decision about repatriation is final.  I dont find that unusual, as 
thats the case in most other travel policies sold by other providers.
Further Mapfre throughout its communications, detailed and explained what  types of 
expenses were and were not covered  under its policy. Mr A appears of the view that any 
costs incurred directly, as a result  of his daughters accident, are covered, but thats not 
what this policy provides. And I dont consider there  are any issues for me to consider that 
would mean  Mr A is entitled  to any further  costs,  other than what the policy provides. 
Just because some of Mapfres service to Miss A was below what I would expect does not 
mean costs  not covered by this policy should  then be covered either, as Ive dealt with that 
above by way of compensation  for the trouble and upset such  service failings caused.
The investigator detailed  these costs in her view to include  quoting the relevant policy  
provisions relating to them so I wont repeat  all of them here.  Mapfre has also agreed them 
as these expenses  are in line with the provisions in the policy. This includes the refund  of the 
police report costs, given  its agents agreed these and the loss of her phone which was 
destroyed in the accident. For the avoidance  of any doubt, insurance  costs, visa costs  (other  
than Miss As), car hire costs and the infringement fine are not covered by the policy.  Neither 
are costs for food and drink and other basic living expenses. Policy  permits one person to be 
with the insured and therefore  Mapfre is willing to pay those costs  of one parent throughout, 
provided one is not overlapping the other.  I consider this reasonable. And of course,  the 
excess payable must  be deducted.
However, I expect Mapfre to add interest of 8% simple per to any of these expenses from 
the date Mr A or Miss A paid them to the date of its refund.
Ref: DRN22065655my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to 
do the following:
Refund Mr A the costs  of the flights to bring Miss A back to the UK up to the limit of 
the costs it would have paid in February 2017, subject to payment of the excess.  Add 
interest of 8% simple  per year from the date Mr A paid them  to the date of its refund.*
Refund all costs  up to 3 February  2017 that were properly covered under the benefits 
of this policy, substituting the costs incurred between Mrs A and Mr A as appropriate 
as agreed by Mapfre. This includes the costs of the police reports  and the loss of 
Miss As mobile phone,  which  was destroyed  in the accident. Add interest  of 8% 
simple per year from the date those costs were  incurred to the date of its refund.*
Pay Miss A £300 compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused in the handling of 
its medical assistance. 
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A considers that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should  also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206565