K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him payment protection
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr A took out a mortgage with the Halifax in 2002 and bought the PPI at around the same
time.
The PPI was part of a packaged  protection policy called a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan
(TMPP). A TMPP could  be made  up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover and
critical illness cover. Mr A took all three  elements but he has only complained  to us about
the PPI, so thats what Ill look at in this decision.
Mr A says he didnt know the PPI was optional and was paying  for something he didnt need.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr As complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr A disagrees  and so his
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr A he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement
to it. Because  the sale was so long ago, Halifax doesnt have any of Mr As PPI paperwork.  I
dont think this is unusual  or surprising. But from what  we know of how Halifax sold these
policies around  this time and the documents weve seen in the past, I think its likely the
paperwork Mr A wouldve seen wouldve made it clear enough the PPI was optional.  I know
this isnt how Mr A remembers things and its possible, as he says, that Halifax didnt follow
its usual sales process  at the time and it wasnt made clear  to him he had a choice. But Mr A 
has said his recollections  arent detailed. And so, without anything else to back  up what      
Mr A says,  I think  its more likely  based on what we know  about Halifaxs  usual  sales  
process at the time  that it made  Mr A aware  he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he 
agreed to it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it needed to make  sure it was right for him.
I dont know what steps Halifax took to do this but, from what Ive seen of the policy  terms
Halifax has given us and what  Mr A says of his circumstances  at the time, I think  it was. I say
this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr A wasnt eligible for the policy.  Its 
possible Halifax didnt advise him of the main policy  exclusions and limitations which
couldve made it more  difficult for someone to make  a successful claim. But I havent
seen anything to make me think its likely  Mr A was caught by any of these.  So I think  
he couldve  claimed the full policy benefit had he needed to.
Ref: DRN25801402I think the PPI gave Mr A useful  protection. He says he got good sick pay from his 
work and had some savings. But the PPI couldve covered his mortgage  repayments 
for up to two years if he was off work because of sickness or an accident or if he lost 
his job. So it couldve lasted much  longer  than his sick pay and wouldve  paid out on 
top of it. It would also have meant Mr A didnt need to use his savings to pay his 
mortgage. A mortgage is a long-term and significant financial commitment,  and your 
home is at risk if you fall behind  on your repayments. So I think  having  PPI wouldve 
given Mr A the peace of mind that his mortgage was covered for some  time if things 
got difficult.
I dont know what Halifax said to Mr A about  the cost of the policy.  But it looks as if 
he could afford it, so I dont think its cost made  it unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure the cover was right for Mr A, Halifax also had to give him enough
clear information about the key features of the PPI so he could make  an informed choice
about whether  to buy it. Halifax  hasnt said much about what  it told Mr A. But, as Ive said,  I
think its likely he chose to buy the PPI and it was right for him  so I think clearer
information would only have confirmed this to him. I dont think  its likely it wouldve stopped
him buying the cover.
In response to our adjudicators view on Mr As complaint,  his representatives made  a 
number of detailed  comments. Ive looked at all of them  (as our adjudicator did when she 
replied to Mr As representatives). But they dont change my conclusions on this complaint. I 
dont think Mr A has lost out because  of what Halifax may have done wrong, so theres
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2580140