K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Motor Depot Limited (MDL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2007. The policy  was sold 
by MDL  when Mr H took out a loan to buy a car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr H says he cant remember the PPI being discussed with him and doesnt think he would 
have agreed to take it out if hed been given a choice. 
Theres no record of what was discussed between Mr H and the MDL sales person  he spoke 
to. And Mr Hs memory of the meeting doesnt  seem  to be that detailed  or vivid. But thats 
not surprising  given that this sale took place over ten years ago. So in these circumstances, I 
need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information 
I now have available.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement which Mr H signed at the time to get his loan. This 
has a section on it with the printed statement I wish to purchase the following insurance(s) 
(tick relevant  box(es)) . I can see that theres  a tick in the box below this statement and Mr H 
has also signed in the place provided  for this in this section of the form. The PPI premium, 
the interest to be charged on this premium and the total cost of the PPI including  interest, 
are also all shown in other parts of the agreement.  And the agreement shows that a Silver 
plan was sold to Mr H, which protected  him against accidents and sickness,  but not 
redundancy. It also gave  him life cover.
The way that PPI has been presented in the loan agreement makes me think that its more 
likely than not that his requirements for this type of cover were discussed  with him before the 
agreement was produced and that he agreed  to take out the policy with Silver level cover.  
And I think that Mr H would have been  likely  to query why he was being asked to pay for this 
cover, and sign separately for it, if this hadnt been the case.
So on the limited  information available, I dont  think it would be fair for me to conclude that 
MDL added this cover without discussing it with Mr H and making it clear to him that it was 
optional. I think its more  likely that Mr H actively decided to take out the PPI policy  knowing 
he could choose  not to do so. But I can understand why he might not be able to recall  this 
now.
Ref: DRN20698102MDL says it cant be sure whether it recommended the PPI policy  to Mr H. But Ive assumed 
that it did so, because this means it had to ensure it was suitable for him. I cant now know  
how it did this. But from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I cant  see any 
reason why the policy wouldnt have  been suitable. I say this because:
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr H cant  remember if he was entitled to sick pay from his employer at the time of the 
sale. But even if he was, I still think that he could have  benefited from the policy.  It would 
have covered the repayments on his loan for up to twenty four months if he wasnt  able 
to work because of an accident or sickness. And it would have paid out in addition  to any 
other means he might have had available. So I think he would have valued the protection 
that the policy gave him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr H. And although he is unlikely 
to have received  a proportionate refund if he cancelled the insurance early, Ive no 
reason for thinking this was particularly  likely  to happen.
MDL also needed to give Mr H enough information about the policy for him to decide  if he 
wanted to take it. I can see that it did give him the cost of the cover. But I think its quite 
possible that the other information it gave him wasnt as good  as it should have been. 
However, for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Mr W, I 
dont think better information  would have  changed his mind  about buying it. I think hed still 
have thought the policy gave him useful cover at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mr W has lost out by anything that MDL might  have  done  wrong  when it 
sold him this PPI.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Motor  Depot Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2069810