K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly  and unreasonably by 
failing to ensure  that its staff understood properly a mortgage product it gave her, failing to 
give her advice and with its general customer  service. She wants to know  how shes going to 
pay the further advance taken out under her mortgage, to get a new product and 
compensation for the additional  interest  shed paid while trying to resolve matters and the 
additional interest she may be charged in the future.
background
Miss H took out a mortgage product offered to key workers with Nationwide  in 2007 through 
a broker. This product  was split into two parts  a main mortgage  and an extra further  
advance mortgage.  There was also a separate government loan. The further  advance  was 
interest free for five years  and meant that Nationwide would receive  12.5%  of any increase  
of the value of the property. Miss H made overpayments towards both parts of her mortgage. 
Miss H complained that over the years,  it had been difficult  to get answers  from Nationwide  
about the product as its staff were  unfamiliar with it. In particular, she said that in late 2017,  
she wanted to get a new cheaper product and combine the two parts of the mortgage into 
one loan, but the staff struggled to give her advice, gave incorrect  or conflicting information 
and didnt progress  matters. Miss H was unhappy that her details had been passed to a 
valuer by Nationwide in order to arrange the required valuation for her to repay the further  
advance part of her mortgage and that her relatives  number was used as her contact 
number. Miss H understood  that the further advance had to be repaid to remortgage,  but she 
wasnt clear whether she could borrow the money  owed to Nationwide  due to the increase in 
value of the property as part of a remortgage with Nationwide.
Nationwide said that in order to take out a new product,  Miss H needed to repay the further 
advance, which meant  she needed a valuation. It accepted that its staff had given conflicting  
information to Miss H and its customer service  hadnt been  good enough. Nationwide  paid 
Miss H £30 for her expenses and £175 compensation. Miss H objected as she said shed 
been told that the main mortgage and further  advance were entirely separate; Nationwide  
said that the terms and conditions  of Miss Hs product was that she couldnt switch  to a new 
product or make overpayments while in the scheme,  but it wouldnt take action in relation to 
the overpayments already  made.  It was adamant  that the two parts  of the mortgage were  
linked and not separate, which meant in order to remortgage, Miss H had to pay the further 
advance part in full, including the increase in value  owed to Nationwide.
Miss H complained to us. The investigators view was that the terms of the mortgage offer 
said Miss H couldnt switch to a new Nationwide product while  in the scheme, and that she 
could only leave if she repaid the further  advance in full. The investigator explained that 
Miss H couldnt borrow just repay the further advance  and add the amount owed due to the 
increase in the value of the property to the main mortgage. She also said that the product 
held by Miss H was an old one, which was why Nationwides staff had limited  knowledge  and 
gave conflicting  information, and said that there  hadnt been a breach of data protection  law. 
The investigator said that no further  action  was required  by Nationwide  and suggested 
Miss H got the valuation  in order to find out whether  she could afford  to buy out Nationwides  
interest in her property  and then remortgage.
Ref: DRN22814102Miss H disagreed. She said that she wasnt told in 2017 that it wasnt possible to combine 
the two parts  of her mortgage, which was one of the points shed been  trying to find out. 
Miss H felt that Nationwide continued to give her conflicting information and she couldnt  
trust the mortgage  offer as the terms and conditions had changed over the years.  She also 
felt data protection laws had been breached and the stress shed suffered had been  
overlooked. The investigator said the offer made  by Nationwide  was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances,  and while it had chosen  to waive part of the terms of the mortgage, it 
didnt mean  that the mortgage  offer wasnt correct. She also said data protection issues  were  
a matter for the Information Commissioners Office. Miss H still disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about Miss Hs product,  and not the possible data protection issues as 
such matters are best left to the Information  Commissioners Office.
Theres no doubt that at times Nationwide has confused Miss H and given her conflicting or 
incorrect information; both parties  accept this happened. But my role isnt to punish 
businesses for making mistakes but to ensure  the consumer is put back into the position that 
they shouldve  been in all along (as far as thats  possible). 
In Miss Hs case, its clear  from the mortgage  offer that the two parts  of the mortgage  are 
linked and she cant simply add the increase in the value  of her property owed to Nationwide 
to the main mortgage.  Its also clear that until the further advance  is paid, Miss H cant  
remortgage to another Nationwide product. That said,  while  Nationwide  isnt able to give 
Miss H financial  advice,  I think  that Miss H might  find taking further  advice from a broker  
useful as once  she knows much she needs  to borrow in full in order to remortgage and 
remove Nationwides interest  in the value  of her property, the broker might  be able to 
present her with options to achieve  this goal. 
I appreciate that Miss H is concerned that at times Nationwide  has waived or ignored the 
terms of the mortgage  offer. But its only done that when its been to the advantage of 
Miss H, such  as ignoring the overpayments shes made towards the further  advance  in 
breach of the mortgage terms. Legally,  the mortgage offer in full still applies but its up to 
Nationwide whether to enforce all the terms. As Nationwide has only waived the terms when 
it has benefitted Miss H, I think this is fair and reasonable.
What the above  means in Miss Hs case is that due to need to establish  how much  
Nationwide is owed  due to any increase of the value  of Miss Hs property, Miss H isnt able 
to proceed (and wasnt able to) with a remortgage. Miss H asked the valuation to be paused 
while her complaint was considered; that was her choice but it has meant that she doesnt  
know how much  is needed to buy out Nationwide,  despite knowing  that the further advance 
has to be paid to remortgage. And as I say above, Nationwide  isnt able to give Miss H 
financial advice. So I dont  think the failings of Nationwide  have stopped Miss H from 
remortgaging as she wouldnt proceed with the valuation; I also note that at this point in time 
theres no evidence  before  me as to whether Miss H can remortgage as she wishes.  I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for Nationwide to pay the extra mortgage interest Miss H says 
shes paid and will pay in the future  in the circumstances. And Nationwide  has also paid for 
Miss Hs expenses in contacting it, which  means  theres no financial loss.
Ref: DRN22814103That leaves the issue of compensation for trouble  and upset. Money never  truly 
compensates for this. Nationwide  has paid £175 compensation to cover the trouble and 
upset caused  by the conflicting and incorrect information its given to Miss H, and having 
considered this services  guidelines and what Miss H has said,  I think this is fair and 
reasonable. I appreciate Miss H was unhappy  about the response to her complaint  but I 
dont think it was wrong. Ive found that the information given to her isnt the reason why she 
hasnt remortgaged as Miss H was aware that she needed to repay the further  advance  in 
order to remortgage from an early stage so I dont think further  compensation for the stress 
connected to this would be fair or reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 
26 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2281410