K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has asked her to repay the full outstanding 
balance of a current  account she previously held with her husband. 
background
Mrs L previously  had a joint account with her husband. He entered  into an IVA in 2012 and 
made payments to the account via the administrator.  During the IVA Mrs Ls husband paid 
£89.86 to the outstanding balance. After  Mrs Ls husbands IVA ended last year Barclays 
contacted her about the outstanding balance. 
On 1 February 2019 Mrs L contacted  Barclays about the outstanding debt. She said 
Barclays was wrong  to contact her and ask her to pay the full outstanding balance. Mrs L 
said that she should only have to pay half the outstanding balance because  the account  was 
originally a joint account. Barclays call handler said the account was in Mrs Ls name only 
and that she was responsible for the full outstanding balance. 
Mrs L went on to complain  and Barclays responded on 7 February  2019 but didnt uphold  
agree it had made an error. Barclays said the 1 February 2019 call wasnt  handled badly and 
confirmed that despite  Mrs Ls husband  completing his IVA she remained liable for the 
remaining balance outstanding. 
Mrs L referred her complaint to our service  and an investigator looked at it. He said that 
Mrs L was responsible for repaying  the full outstanding balance on the account.  During  his 
investigation the investigator asked  Barclays to provide Mrs L with details about PPI refunds  
to her and her husband. The investigator  said the outstanding balance was correct and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mrs L asked to appeal so her complaints been  passed to me to make 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mrs L and her husband had with Barclays  on 1 February  2019.  I 
understand that the call was heated but I didnt  find that the person they spoke with was rude 
or unprofessional.  I thought the call was handled well with as much information as possible 
provided. 
Mrs L has asked for confirmation that the payments made under her husbands IVA have 
been correctly  applied to the account.  The investigators forwarded her evidence to show 
that payments  of £89.86  were made  via the IVA administrator. He also forwarded  information 
about how PPI refunds  were made. I wont repeat  the contents of the letters  the investigator 
forwarded here but Im satisfied the refunds were correctly paid and werent  applied  directly 
to this account to reduce the outstanding  balance.  I havent found anything  to show Barclays  
made mistakes in calculating the balance its now asking Mrs L to pay. On 26 June 2019  
Barclays confirmed the balance due is £1,842.69. 
Ref: DRN29869872Ive looked at the account terms Mrs L and her husband agreed to when  the joint account 
was opened. The terms say joint account holders are jointly liable for the debt.  That means 
both parties are responsible for the full balance  due. When Mrs Ls husband  was removed 
from the account after his IVA completed  she became responsible for the remaining balance. 
I understand Mrs L feels she should be responsible for half the debt. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs L but thats not what the terms say and Barclays is correct  in saying she is now 
responsible for outstanding balance. 
I can see how strongly Mrs L feels about this matter  but I havent  found anything to show 
that Barclays has misled her or advised that she would only be responsible for repaying half 
the outstanding balance  on completion of her husbands  IVA. Im satisfied the balance  
Barclays says is due is accurate and that it can ask Mrs L to repay  it. As I havent found any 
evidence of a mistake by Barclays,  Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2986987