K821x#15complaint
Mr S1 and Ms J are executors of the estate  of the late Mr S2. Their complaint, on behalf of 
the estate, is that Computershare Investor  Services Plc (CIS) mismanaged  Mr S1s pursuit  
to transfer his late fathers shareholding  to him.
background
Upon Mr S1s request CIS sent him a transfer form. Unknown to him it was the wrong form. 
He completed and returned it around 14 May 2018. CIS rejected and returned the form to 
him because  the deceased shareholders details were missing  from it. CIS appears to 
concede that this was because the non-deceased version of the transfer form had been 
wrongly sent to Mr S1. This does not appear to have been  clarified  to him at the time. He 
returned the form to CIS a second time around  6 June, having added  a missing date, but 
CIS rejected and returned it to him again for the same reason.  
At this point Mr S1 complained about  the matter and subsequently  learnt  that it had been 
caused by CIS sending  him, three times,  the wrong  form despite knowing from the outset 
that he sought to transfer his late fathers holding. CIS apologised for the matter, offered to 
help Mr S1 complete the transfer  and appears  to have sent him £50 for the trouble and upset 
the matter had caused him.
Mr S1 did not accept  this outcome and he considered that appropriate compensation for the 
matter would be additional, compensatory, shares in the holding. He asked for 1,000 such 
shares but CIS declined his request. It considers that its offer of £50 is sufficient in the 
circumstances.
The matter  was referred to this service, with consent  from Ms J, and one of our investigators 
considered it. She did not consider that Mr S1 had been sufficiently compensated for the 
trouble and upset  he had been caused, but she also did not support his request for 1,000  
additional shares. She concluded that fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
him would be a total payment of £150.  Mr S1 accepted this outcome but CIS did not. It 
retained the view that its offer of £50 is sufficient. The matter was referred  to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS essentially concedes  the complaint. The matter in dispute is the level of compensation 
due to Mr S1. In straightforward terms, I consider that the investigators conclusion is sound. 
I do not consider  that the level of trouble  and upset caused to him supports compensation to 
the extent that he initially  requested  that is, the additional shares.  To his credit,  his position 
appears to have been revised and I have  seen the form signed in acceptance of the 
investigators view and proposal of £150 total compensation. 
CIS sent the wrong  form to Mr S1 a total of three times  that is, the initial form he completed 
and then its return, to Mr S1, of the same form twice thereafter. Evidence suggests  it ought 
not to have made the mistake at the outset,  given that Mr S1s request would have made it 
clear (or at least implicit) that he needed the deceased version of the transfer form  or that 
the non-deceased  version was inappropriate for his pursuit. As a lay person, it was not for 
Ref: DRN24024042him to identify the error upon his receipt(s) of the form. However, as a regulated  firm with 
knowledge of its own procedures, it certainly was for CIS to have identified and at least  
clarified the error and informed Mr S1 about it after the first time of receiving the wrong 
completed form. It does not appear to have done  this and it appears to have omitted to do 
the same  upon  its second receipt  of the wrong completed form. 
CIS could  have avoided, for Mr S1, the negative experience  he had in this matter by sending  
him the correct form at the outset, or at least upon  its first receipt of the wrong completed 
form. Instead the negative experience was not avoided  and Mr S1 endured  the trouble and 
upset it caused,  especially  given the inherent sensitivity arising  from the matter taking place 
in the aftermath of his late fathers passing. This lasted for around  a month. I am satisfied 
that a total compensation  payment of £150  is appropriate in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and I order  Computershare Investor 
Services Plc to pay Mr S1 £150 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the mismanaged 
transfer matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and Ms J, 
on behalf of the estate  of the late Mr S2, to accept or reject my decision before 
29 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2402404