K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about advice he received to switch his existing pension  benefits into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He thinks the advice  was unsuitable because it did not 
take into account the proposed investment which involved more  risk than he was prepared  to 
take. The pension  switch advice was given  by Chartered Financial Solutions Ltd an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic  Wealth Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 21 March  2019.  I explained why I thought 
we can consider Mr Rs complaint, why it should  be upheld and how things should be put 
right.  I attach an anonymised version of my provisional decision as an annex.
Mr R agrees with my provisional decision.   Intrinsic  doesnt, but has nothing  further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  we have 
jurisdiction to consider  the complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional decision  its 
my finding  that we can consider the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision its my finding  that the complaint should be upheld and that fair compensation 
should be paid as set out in the provisional  decision. 
The compensation should be paid by Intrinsic within 28 days of it being informed of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my decision.  If its not paid within 28 days  Intrinsic  is to pay interest  on any 
part that has not been paid (including the payment  for trouble and upset) at the rate of 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of this decision until the date of payment.
my final decision
Its my decision that we can consider this complaint, the complaint is upheld and Intrinsic 
Wealth Limited is to pay compensation as set out in my provisional decision and above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25785162ANNEX
complaint
Mr R complains about advice he received to switch his existing pension  benefits  into a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).  He thinks the advice was unsuitable because  it did not take into account the 
proposed investment which involved more risk than he was prepared to take. The pension switch 
advice was given by Chartered Financial Solutions Ltd an appointed representative of Intrinsic Wealth 
Limited.
The investment made in the SIPP has been  referred to as Sustainable Agro-Energy and Carbon  
Credit Farming and Jatropha Green Oil.  I will refer to it as the investment or the scheme.  
Later the investment  failed and the investment manager went  into administration.  As I understand it, 
the investment  is now worthless and Mr R has lost nearly  all the money transferred into his SIPP.  
background
The events in this complaint  occurred in 2009-2010.  At the time Mr R was earning  about £20,000 a 
year gross.  He did not have an occupational  pension  although he worked for a large employer  with a 
pension scheme.  He  did have two personal  pension plans. Their  transfer values were about £40,000 
for one policy  and around £4,000 for the other.  They  were  invested in the with-profits fund.
Mr R was in his mid-forties.   He had some investment experience.  He had some money in a cash  ISA 
and he had some shares worth about £2,000.  Mr R also owned  two buy to let properties as well as 
his own home.  All  three were mortgaged.
Mr R also had a recent experience buying shares from what sounds like a boiler room.  The shares 
turned out to be worthless.  Mr R said of this experience:  
This had been a lesson I learnt the hard way.
 
Mr R has described the events leading up to the pension  transfer in 2010  as follows:
Mr [A] called me on numerous occasions during  the latter part of 2009 and into 2010 It was 
after that when I made the decision to invest in the Sustainable Growth  Fund.
Mr [A] recommended the product to me, and explained  the following  to me.  I would own a 
plot of land together with a number of palm  oil bearing  Jatropha trees that would  yield an 
increasing return year on year ie as the trees matured they would produce more  oil.  The  
Jatropha tree was an extremely  hardy tree able to survive harsh conditions including drought, 
so was ideal for this purpose.  Mr [A] explained that it was a safe investment, ideal for 
pensions, and that each investor could let their fund grow or could withdraw  a dividend each 
year as an income.  Returns during years 0-3 would be modest, but after 3 years  would be 
very good.
I had no idea that I could  even transfer a pension  fund until Mr [A] contacted  me, and I had no 
idea how he got my contact  details.
My  Pension was a steady investment, and thoughts  of a greater return on a safe 
investment seemed a very good idea, that was the motivation for switching pensions.   If I had 
had any inkling that the Sustainable Growth Fund was in the slightest bit risky,  I would  never 
have invested and sacrificed my  Pension which I had built up slowly over nearly thirty  
years.
Once I had agreed to go ahead  with the investment, Chartered  Financial Solutions Ltd wrote 
to me explaining that I had to complete  and return two discharge forms from [my existing 
Ref: DRN25785163pension provider],  as well as signing and returning other forms that were  enclosed.   Chartered 
Financial would then forward all the documents to the Providers. 
Intrinsic have provided some documents from that time.  They  include:
1.An undated file note.
2.A completed attitude to risk questionnaire.
3.A Lifetime  SIPP illustration dated 1 February 2010.
4.A Lifetime  SIPP application form dated 18 February 2010.
5.A Lifetime  SIPP illustration dated 22 February 2010.
6.A recommendation letter dated 22 February 2010.
7.A financial planning  report  dated  22 February 2010. 
The letter dated 22 February 2010  was from [an adviser  with] Chartered Financial Solutions Ltd.  At 
that time it was an appointed  representative of Intrinsic.  Before  that it had been an appointed 
representative of a different  network,  Mint Financial,  that was taken over by Intrinsic 2008.
The recommendation  letter includes:
Thank you for allowing  me to review your financial details.  The purpose of our meeting was 
to discuss transferring your existing pension into a SIPP as you want  to invest in a specific 
investment within that SIPP.  At this time you only require advice on the SIPP provider and 
not the investment  within the SIPP you intend to make
Following our discussion  I have  recommended the solution detailed  below, based  on 
affordability and your stated attitude to risk of balanced.  This meets your objectives by 
arranging for the transfer of your pension  into a SIPP  to enable you to make the investment 
you wish when the transfer is complete.  You have  accepted  my recommendation in full.
The file note includes the following:
[Mr R] is interested in certain funds to invest in within his pension.   To do this he needs to 
transfer to a SIPP and he asked me to facilitate  this for him.  He does not want any advice  on 
the funds.
He has three  properties,  one which is the old marital home and is being  sold at present and 
two buy to let properties which he will keep.
 [Mr R] has never joined [his employers] pension  even  though he could have gone into the 
Final Salary  scheme up until 2002.  The scheme is now a stakeholder  which the company will 
pay 6% and the employee pay 4%, 5% or 6% of salary.  I discussed  this with him and at the 
start he said he was just disillusioned with pensions  in general and thats why he never  joined,  
but he did say he would look again  at joining now.
[Mr R] sees  his properties  as the main part of his retirement income and these may be added 
to in the future when the credit situation and house prices see an upturn.
The Financial Planning Report includes  the following:
Your employer offers a Money Purchase scheme but although you have been in their 
employment for 10 years  you have never joined.  I would advise you to join this scheme as 
your employer will also contribute and there is valuable  Death in Service benefits as well of 
four times income.
You currently have two pensions l, details of which are set out below.   You want to take 
control of your pensions yourself  and self-invest your funds.  To enable you to do this you 
want to transfer the funds to a SIPP.  
Ref: DRN25785164We believe it is our duty to provide you with advice  on every  aspect of your financial affairs.   
However, you have requested that I limit my advice  to the area of your pension.
Providing or increasing retirement income
Having discussed  these areas  you have confirmed that your priorities are the following:
 Providing or increasing retirement income
You have  stated that your attitude to risk is balanced growth,  and therefore your objective is 
to achieve a return  using a portfolio with higher  equity content and a wider geographical  
spread whilst aiming for consistent longer term capital  appreciation.  Investment will be 
predominantly in the UK and overseas equities with an element  of investment in fixed interest 
and property  in order to provide growth orientated diversification confined  with a 
moderate/higher level of volatility.  A level of predominantly dividend income is achievable.
To fulfil your requirements to be able to self-invest your pension funds into Green  Oil funds I 
am recommending  you transfer your Personal Pension policies over to The Lifetime SIPP  in 
order for you to make the investment of your choice.
I have researched the market using Synaptics  and O&M Pension Profiler looking for a 
suitable SIPP  provider who will accept these  particular investments you want to make  within 
your SIPP.  The Lifetime SIPP are at present, the only SIPP provider that will accept this 
investment, therefore for you to invest in your chosen funds. The Lifetime SIPP  can be the 
only route we can take to facilitate this.
As you are picking the funds yourself you do not want any advice as to the suitability, or 
otherwise of the investment  and I am not offering any advice as regards these  funds.
 Although the  With Profit fund has performed  reasonably well over recent years, the 
asset allocation with the fund does not match your attitude to risk as the equity content is 
lower than it should be for someone with your risk profile.  You also should be aware that if 
you invest in a single asset class you will probably  [be] adding extra  risk to your funds  that 
[sic] your risk profile says you should have.
As a result  of my recommendation you are transferring your existing pension to enable you 
to invest  in the funds of your choice.
The advantages of this are you will be able to invest in the fund of your choice for the 
potential of greater  growth.  By transferring you are also crystallising the terminal 
bonus payable on your two pension plans at present.
The disadvantages  are, the Lifetime SIPP  is more  expensive than your current  
pension plans and if you do invest in the fund of your choice, a single  asset class 
investment carries a much  higher degree of risk than a portfolio of investments 
because there is no spread of risk you are reliant on one asset to perform well
The SIPP was opened  in February  2010 and the switch from [the existing pensions]  was completed in 
March 2010.  The transfer value  received   was about £46,000, and 
about £43,000  of Mr Rs pension  fund was invested  in an unregulated non-mainstream investment  - 
the scheme - shortly  afterwards in April 2010.  
A statement of account  provided by the SIPP  administrator shows fees of £920.85 were paid to 
Chartered Financial on 16 April 2010.
The SIPP provider has since  provided  evidence   to show that the payment was made to Mint 
Financial (which at the time of the payment had been taken over by Intrinsic)  rather  than direct to 
Ref: DRN25785165Chartered Financial.  Intrinsic says it is not able to trace the payment because  of changes in IT 
infrastructure and procedure.  
Intrinsic says Chartered Financial was its appointed representative  but it was not permitted to advise  
on unregulated investments  such as the fund in which  Mr R invested and lost money.  If the appointed 
representative was involved it would  have  been  as agent or introducer  of the fund and not as its 
appointed representative.  It says no advice was given on its behalf and Intrinsic  has no liability in this 
matter.
Mr Rs complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could consider the merits of the complaint.  He said:
For a complaint to fall under the compulsory jurisdiction of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, 
which is set out in the Regulators Dispute Resolution  (DISP) handbook, two conditions must be 
satisfied:
1)the act or omission complained  about must have  occurred in the carrying on of an activity 
covered by the compulsory jurisdiction  (DISP 2.3.1R) and
2)the act or omission must be that of the firm complained about  (DISP 2.3.3G)
Advising on switching  out of, and transferring  into, personal pension schemes  (including  SIPPs) is 
a regulated activity. In this case there is no question that advice was provided  a suitability letter 
was sent by Chartered  Financial to Mr R and this clearly shows  that a personal recommendation 
was made. 
But the advice wasnt an activity for which  Intrinsic  accepted responsibility. The scope of activities 
for which Intrinsic  accepts  responsibility  is set out in the Appointed  Representative  Agreement 
and Intrinsics Compliance Manual  referred to in that agreement.
Section 9 of the Compliance  Manual  explains  that in order to be permitted  to provide pension 
transfer or switch advice the member  must have passed Intrinsics internal  knowledge test.
The new SIPP was set up in February 2010 therefore  the advice must  have been provided  before 
this. However Intrinsic  has provided evidence  that the adviser didnt pass its internal knowledge 
test until May 2010.
Because the adviser didnt hold the required internal knowledge qualification at the time the 
advice was given,  he was acting outside of the terms of the Appointed Representative 
Agreement. As a result the advice did not fall within  the scope of permissions  for which Intrinsic 
accepted responsibility, therefore DISP  2.3.3G  cannot be satisfied.
The new SIPP provider has provided  evidence  that Intrinsic received commission  for the advice. 
Intrinsic failed to identify  that this related  to advice  which had not been approved by its internal 
Compliance Department.  Accordingly  it agreed to refund the £920.85 commission.
Mr Rs representatives didnt agree.  In response, they said:
By interpreting  the rules  in the way he has, the adjudicator has put Mr R in the position  where he 
has no regulated protection. 
Mr R wouldnt know what permissions  the adviser  had. As far as he was aware,  the adviser was 
authorised to and permitted to give advice.  Its not something  he would have checked.  
Principals are liable for the activities of appointed representatives. If theres been activity by an 
appointed representative that is outside the scope of their agreement, the principal is still liable 
for any loss caused  to a consumer. In turn, the principal can then recover these monies from the 
appointed representative as a breach of contract. This is well-established law. 
Ref: DRN25785166A principals core responsibility  is derived  from section 39 (3) of The Financial Markets  and 
Services Act 2000 (FSMA). This states:
"The principal of an appointe d representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for  anything  done  or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The findings in the legal case of Martin & Another v Britannia  Life Ltd [1991] All ER (D) 149 
support  its view that Intrinsic  is liable.
Its wrong  to suggest  that a failure  by an appointed  representative  to use approved  methods,  
and/or  use methods  expressly  prohibited,  will mean  that the principal  is not liable.  This is an 
artificial  distinction  as it has no bearing  on causation.
This service has acknowledged in previous cases that a principal was still liable even if it 
expressly prohibited business being placed with institutions with which it doesnt hold an agency. 
Theres no reason  to depart from this position. 
Its well established that a principal will always be liable for the acts of its appointed 
representative, despite  the acts being expressly prohibited. If theres an issue with the appointed 
representative acting outside the scope of its authority, this is a private dispute between the 
principal and the appointed representative. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to deny Mr R his right 
of action because of this. 
Intrinsic received commission  for the transfer, which means a contract  exists between  
Mr R, Intrinsic and its appointed  representative.
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
I have considered all the evidence and arguments, in order to decide  whether  this service  can 
consider Mr Rs complaint.  
some preliminary points 1: the basis for deciding  jurisdiction:
I must decide whether  we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint on the basis of our jurisdiction 
rules, including the relevant law they are based on or incorporate, based on the relevant facts of the 
complaint which I must  decide on the balance  of probability when in dispute.  
I cannot decide  the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances.  That is the basis on which the merits of complaint will be determined  if we have 
jurisdiction to consider it.
some preliminary points 2: authorised and exempt persons:
S.19 FSMA prohibits a person from carrying  on a "regulated activity" unless  he is "an authorised 
person" or "an exempt person".
Intrinsic was an authorised person.  Chartered Financial was not. At the time of the event in this 
complaint s.39(1) and (3) created an exemption  from s.19 for "appointed  representatives" in these 
terms: 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
Ref: DRN25785167(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(2) A person  who is exempt as a result of subsection (1) is referred  to in this Act as an 
appointed representative.
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  
Intrinsic had such an agreement with Chartered  Financial.   I will refer it as the s.39 Agreement.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can deal with certain complaints against Intrinsic as a regulated 
firm/authorised person.   That may include complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representatives.  That  is why this complaint  is against Intrinsic  rather than Chartered  Financial.  
In 2010 the financial  services regulator in the UK was the Financial  Services Authority.  In 2013 it was 
replaced by the Financial  Conduct Authority.  For convenience I will just refer to the FCA,  or the 
regulator, throughout.
Intrinsics position:
Intrinsic has made a number of points in response to the complaint and in relation to jurisdiction,  
including the following:
Chartered Financial  did not give any advice in relation  to the investment fund which is the 
primary subject of the complaint.
Under the s.39 agreement with Chartered Financial:
oChartered Financial  was not permitted to advise  on unregulated collective  investment 
schemes such as the fund Mr R invested in with his SIPP.  
oChartered Financial  could only advise on approved  investments and neither  the 
existing pensions nor the Lifetime SIPP were on its approved list.
oAdvice to switch pensions had to be approved by Intrinsic before the advice given to 
the client  and it was not approved by Intrinsic  in this case.
oAdvice to switch pensions could  only be given by an adviser who had passed 
Intrinsics internal exam  relating to pensions transfers and switches.  The adviser in 
this case  had not passed that exam  at the time of the advice.
So in short  Intrinsic says it did not, and does not, accept responsibility for the advice  about which Mr 
R complains and the ombudsman service does not have jurisdiction over the complaint.
what is the complaint? 
In order  to decide whether we can or cannot consider  a complaint it is necessary  first to decide  what  
the complaint is.
Mr R is represented by solicitors.  They wrote to Chartered Financial  on 
29 April 2013.  That letter  included:
We act for the above person who received  advice from your firm to transfer their pension  
fund into a SIPP and then into investments provided  by Sustainable Growth  Group (SGG).

Ref: DRN25785168Our client was advised  by you to transfer their pension savings into a SIPP.  Your adviser was 
fully aware that out client was considering investing in SGG  once the pension transfer to SIPP 
was complete. Indeed, the whole process was directed to that end
On 4 October 2013 the solicitors wrote  to the ombudsman service.   That letter  included:
Our complaint  relates  to advice provided  to our client by the regulated firm.  The firm 
provided regulated advice in relation to the transfer of a pension to a SIPP.  The only reason 
for the creation of the SIPP was to facilitate investment into unregulated products offered by 
the Sustainable Growth  Group  (SGG).
The client was introduced to the firm in full knowledge  that the sole purpose of the transfer 
was to invest  into SGG.
The FSA in their update of the 18th January 2013 (as set out in our complaint letter)  made  it 
very clear that they expected firm [sic] to consider the risk of the product  they were  
transferring to a SIPP to invest into
It is therefore  clear that the complaint does  not relate to the suitability of the investment fund alone.  
The complaint is about the suitability of the advice to transfer to a SIPP in order to invest  in the 
scheme.  
It is also clear from various documents I have quoted above that Chartered  Financial  did advise Mr R 
to transfer his existing  pensions to a SIPP.  It is also clear that the transfer from the existing 
pensions to the SIPP and the investment in the fund were closely related   that the first part of that 
overall arrangement was recommended to allow the second part to take place.  
can we consider a complaint  about  that advice?
the compulsory jurisdiction:
This type of complaint, if we can consider  it, comes within  our compulsory  jurisdiction.
Under s.226  FSMA:
A complaint which  relates to an act or omission of a person (the respondent)  in carrying on an 
activity to which the compulsory  jurisdiction  applies is to be dealt with under  the ombudsman 
scheme set up under the Act (ie the Financial  Ombudsman Service) if the following conditions 
are satisfied:
othe complainant  is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under  the 
scheme
othe respondent was an authorised person at the time of the act or omission to which  
the complaint relates
othe act or omission occurred  when the compulsory  jurisdiction rules  were  in force in 
relation to the activity in question.
Compulsory jurisdiction  rules means rules made by the FCA specifying the activities to 
which they apply
Intrinsic (the respondent  in this complaint) is an authorised person and was at the time of the events  
to which this complaint relates.   
It is not disputed that Mr R is an eligible complainant and he wishes to have his complaint dealt with 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN25785169The compulsory jurisdiction  rules are set out in the DISP section of the FCA rule book.   And the 
compulsory jurisdiction rules/DISP rules applied  to the type of activity complained about in this case at 
the time of those events.   I will consider  whether they cover the facts of this particular complaint  
further below. 
what do the DISP rules cover in general terms?
In general terms  the DISP rules lead to a number of jurisdiction  tests all of which must be satisfied.  
Those tests, in broad terms, are:
do we have jurisdiction over the respondent firm? 
does  the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
is the complainant  eligible?
do we have territorial jurisdiction?
are the time limit rules complied with?
The tests are inter-related to a degree.  I will deal with each of them.   Is convenient  to deal with the 
second point first.  
what do the DISP rules cover  regulated activities:
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a 
firm in carrying onregulated  activitiesor  any ancillary activities, including advice,  carried 
on by the firm in connection  with them. 
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
As mentioned  above, under  section 39(3) of FSMA:
 the principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
DISP2 also contains the following guidance: 
2.1.4.1G interprets  "carrying on an activity"  as including:
(1) offering,  providing  or failing to provide  a service  in relation to an activity;
(2) administering or failing  to administer a service in relation to an activity;"
2.3.3G interprets "complaints" in this way:
"Complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas  accepted  responsibility)."
Ref: DRN257851610is this a complaint that relates to an act or omission when carrying  on a regulated activity?
S.22 FSMA defines "regulated  activities" as follows: 
"(1) An activity  is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity  of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) "Investment" includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) "Specified" means specified in an order  made by the Treasury."
The relevant Order is the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 
(RAO).  Article 4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
The rights  under a personal pension scheme (which includes Mr Rs [existing]  pensions and his SIPP) 
are specified  as investments  by a provision in Part III (Article 82).  So are the units  in a collective  
investment scheme (Article 81).
Advising on investments is a specified activity under  Part II (Article  53).  So  is arranging deals in 
investments (Article 25).  And so is agreeing to advise on investments or arrange  deals in investments 
(Article 64).  
It is not necessary to deal with the finer detail  of any of these  investments or activities at this stage.  It 
is enough to say I am satisfied that Mr Rs complaint about Chartered Financials advice to transfer 
personal pensions  to a SIPP is a complaint that relates to an act or omission in carrying on a 
regulated activity (that is the regulated activity of advising  on investments and/or arranging  deals in 
investments and/or agreeing to carrying on those activities).
is the complaint against  a firm that is subject to our jurisdiction?
Intrinsic is subject to our jurisdiction.  It is, and was at the time of the events complained about,  
authorised by the regulator.   According to the FCA register Intrinsic currently has permission to:
advise on investments  
advise on pension transfers and opt outs
arrange/bringing about  deals in investments
agree to carry on regulated activities.
So far as I am aware Intrinsic had the same permission at the time of the events in this complaint.   So 
the activities  the complaints  relate  to were activities that came within the scope of Intrinsics 
authorisation from the regulator.
But Intrinsics  point is that Chartered Financial  was acting outside the scope of the s.39 Agreement  
meaning it had not accepted responsibility for the advice.  Put another way Intrinsic is saying 
Chartered Financial was not acting for it when  the advice was given. So it says it is not subject to our 
jurisdiction in relation  to this complaint.
This is the point at the heart of this jurisdiction dispute.  Was Chartered  Financial  acting in its capacity 
as Intrinsics appointed representative when  it gave  the disputed advice?  The issues are involved.  I 
Ref: DRN257851611will set out my view on this issue step by step.
is Intrinsic responsible for the acts and omissions  the complaint  is about?
As mentioned  above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed representative 
in relation to the business  it has accepted  responsibility for.
Appointed representatives  are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  and might 
not act only for the principal  firm.  Sometimes those who operate as appointed representatives  
operate other businesses also.    So sometimes it is clear that a person who happens to be an 
appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  other capacity) rather than 
as business for the principal.
So in the case of Emmanuel  v DBS Management  Plc [1999] Lloyds  Re P.N 593 a principal (under 
[the similar provision  in the predecessor Act,] s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986)  was held not to be 
liable for activities  that were held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted 
responsibility for.  In  that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares in and lend 
money to the appointed  representative itself. 
Another example is in the case of Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That case  
concerns agency rather than s.39 appointed representative issues.  Nevertheless the case gives an 
example of a person having a connection with a regulated  business  and doing something on their own 
account.  In that case the person who was an agent for Positive Solutions (for some purposes) was 
held to be engaging  in a recognisably  independent business of his own   a property investment 
scheme.    
In this case the allegation  is that Chartered Financial gave advice to transfer personal pensions to a 
SIPP to invest in a UCIS investment with a third party.  That advice was clearly documented on 
Chartered Financials note paper.  There  is no suggestion that this was business that was 
recognisably business of the advisers own.  
The facts of the case  mean this is not a case where the act or omission was clearly an act by a 
person who happens to be an appointed representative  but who was acting in some other capacity.  
But that does not mean the appointed representative was definitely carrying  on business Intrinsic had 
accepted responsibility for.  I have to look at it more closely.  
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives  acting in their 
capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation  of statute not common law 
agency.
I note the following comments made by the courts:
Page v Champion Financial Management Limited  [2014]  EWHC 1778, Mr Simon Picken  QC sitting  as 
a Deputy Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing before me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue that 
Section 39(3)  gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal) sense. This was a sensible 
concession since it is clear  that Section 39(3)  does  not entail the imposition of vicarious  
Ref: DRN257851612liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional Liability (7th Ed) at 
paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114, HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely  separate statutory liability and has nothing  to do, on 
the face of it, with the law of agency.  It does not require an agency to be proved before it can 
be activated
In that case  the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship between  
the principal  and the appointed representative depending on the facts  of the case.  However for 
present purposes  it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope of the appointed 
representative status rather  than common law agency principles. 
As mentioned  above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal  (Intrinsic) is required  to accept responsibly for that business which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC  2834 makes it clear that the words part 
of in s.39 allow a principal  firm to accept responsibility  for only part of the generic  business of a 
prescribed description.
I will first deal with the meaning prescribed business and before dealing with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section, s. 417 FSMA,  says that where not otherwise defined, prescribed means 
prescribed in regulations  made by the Treasury.  Such regulations have  been made  the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations 2001 (as amended  from 
time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions  of business for which appointed representatives are 
exempt.  
what was prescribed business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in February 2010.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations  
2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt
Ref: DRN257851613
(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business  is business which  is defined at a high level.  It means business  in the sense 
of certain regulated activities.  It does not mean business in any greater level or particularity.   So it 
does not mean business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means,  say, advising on investments (under article 53 RAO).  It does not mean 
advising Mr R on his particular investments.  
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised  to carry out the above regulated activities in this case.
what was the prescribed  business Intrinsic accepted responsibility for in this case?
The s 39 Agreement  between Intrinsic and Charter Financial expressly incorporated the Compliance 
Manual. The agreement itself said
4.1 The member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement.
The Compliance  Manual was more  helpful on this point.   It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted Chartered Financial to carry on was arranging deals,  
advising on investments (and mortgages but that is not relevant  here) and agreeing to arrange deals 
and advise on investments.  Intrinsic accepted responsibility for that business as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
Ref: DRN257851614To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did authorise  Chartered Financial to advise  on investments, arrange deals in 
investments and agree  to do both.  This was the (relevant) prescribed business Intrinsic  authorised 
Chartered Financial to carry on and agreed to accept responsibility for. 
But as I have  said above, Intrinsic says it put limits on the business  it accepts  responsibly for.  In 
effect it says it authorises  investment advice  but only if certain conditions are met, such as the 
adviser passing  a relevant  exam, or the investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko v Investuk , HHJ Waksman said the following (where D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge  said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.
Then the judge said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgment and the following  description of the clause] which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
Ref: DRN257851615agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) agreed with 
the above.   In that case the network principal had argued that it was not responsible for advice to 
invest in an investment  in which it did not authorise the appointed  representative  to deal.  The judge  
said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenet's behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet  as having such 
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it is clear  that the courts think that at least  some  conditions on the authority given to an appointed 
representative in a s.39 agreement only apply  as between the parties.
Does that mean all terms in the contract apply  in that way?  The answer to that question is no 
because of the words part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I referred to above dealt with this point.  But it was dealt with in the most  recent 
case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834.   In that case  the judge, Mr 
Justice Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
AR's actual authority 
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
Ref: DRN257851616139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS  in relation  to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising  upon it, were 
wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary  business  of a financial  adviser to operate a 
scheme for taking deposits from clients. 
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal  is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed representative 
acting within their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes a principal is responsible when the 
appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And sometimes  a principal is not 
responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond  their actual authority.  And the test in the 
Anderson v Sense Network  judgment is that the principal is responsible when the act or omission is 
sufficiently closely linked to the activities for which  the actual authority was given.  
my view  about the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement  in this case:
exclusion of UCIS advice
The Compliance  Manual says advising  on UCIS  is a specialist activity  and outside the appointed 
representatives scope of permission.
I do not however  need to consider whether or not giving advice on UCIS is sufficiently closely linked 
to the activities for which authority was given.  This is because the complaint is not about UCIS 
advice.  The complaint  is about advice to take out a SIPP  to replace existing personal pensions  in 
order to make the UCIS investment.  This advice is not caught by this exclusion in the s.39 agreement  
relating to UCIS advice.
exclusion of non-advised  business
The Compliance  Manual also says that Intrinsic  believes  advice is always necessary  and that its sales 
process has been developed bearing  that in mind.  It goes on to say although there is scope within  
the regulators rules to operate certain non-advised  processes Intrinsic has chosen not to take 
advantage of this.  
Again this restriction is not relevant as the complaint relates  to the pension advice  rather than to the 
UCIS which the adviser said he was not advising  on.
Ref: DRN257851617pre-approval for insistent client transactions:
According to Intrinsics Compliance Manual insistent client  transactions are those where an adviser  
has presented  a particular recommendation  to a customer  which the customer  refuses to accept  and 
requires the adviser to find another alternative course of action.   It is where  the client is acting against 
the advisers advice.
Intrinsic has a process under which the adviser  is required to obtain written  approval from Intrinsics 
Compliance Department  before the adviser  may proceed with the transaction.
In this case the recommendation letter records  a situation where Mr R had plans  to invest  in the UCIS 
scheme and only wanted Intrinsic to deal with the pension  switch.  So in a sense Mr R might be said 
to be an insistent  client  since he apparently came to Intrinsic with a plan he wanted to a carry  out.  But 
this was not an insistent client transaction in the sense referred to in the Compliance Manual.  The 
adviser did not advise Mr R against the course he wanted  to take.   Rather the adviser said he would 
not advise on the investment he wanted to make.  Mr  R did not therefore  insist on acting against the 
advisers advice.  
As this was not an insistent client transaction the requirement for preapproval was not triggered.  And 
the adviser did not therefore act contrary to his authority from Intrinsic in breach  of this requirement.  
special process for replacement business
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes a special  process for replacement business.  Intrinsic 
classifies replacement business as when an adviser  recommends that a customer replaces an 
existing contract with a new one. The Compliance  Manual says it is essential that for all replacement 
business the following principles are followed by the adviser:
Research the exiting policy  and fully understand the features and options available.
Carefully compare the features, options and charges of both policies.
Fully explain and record all negative aspects of the replacement to the client.
Ensure  all the disadvantages  as well as the advantages are fully explained  in the reason for 
recommendation letter  and explain  what factors made you decide that the replacement was in 
the clients  best interests.
The Compliance  Manual goes on to say:
Some customers  may have a pre-conceived  idea about what they want  to do and it is easy  
for the adviser to allow  these  cases to become  customer driven.   However,  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS) takes a dim view of these cases.  Their view is often that unless 
the customer  has been  specifically advised not to do something,  then the advisers input  is 
viewed as being a recommendation.
This means  that you need to be clear  about what the most suitable course of action is.  The 
reason for recommendation needs to be absolutely clear about what  was advised, 
irrespective of whether  the customer intends to follow that advice.
In this case Intrinsic recommended moving Mr Rs existing pensions  to a SIPP with Lifetime SIPP.   
Put another  way Intrinsic recommended the replacement of two existing policies  with another. The 
replacement business  process should therefore have been used.   In my view it is arguable  that the 
standard required  by the Compliance Manual was not reached because:
It is not clear  the existing policies were researched fully.
The features of the existing policies were  not fully and clearly analysed and recorded in the 
recommendation report in particular the existing  investment options were not fully and clearly 
considered.  
Nor were  the existing charges analysed and compared  to the charges  of the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN257851618If the adviser failed to meet  the standard required in the Compliance  Manual would  this mean  the 
adviser acted  contrary  to his authority and that Intrinsic was not responsible for the advice?
In my view the answer to this question ought to be self-evident.  Can a principal really only be 
responsible for advice if it achieves a certain quality  and is presented a certain  format?  This seems 
contrary to the purpose of s.39 and wrong.
If the adviser is authorised  to give advice  about SIPPs  it follows that he will need to be able to 
consider and advise upon the advantages and disadvantages of the clients existing pension provision 
if he has any. Requiring the adviser to document that advice  in a certain way is so closely related  to 
the activities  for which permission is given that a breach of such  a requirement is only an inter se 
matter.  It applies only as between the principal and the appointed representative.   It does not mean 
the appointed representative acts outside the scope of his authority.   
This type of restriction - as it apples in this case  is either an example of certain duties needed to be 
fulfilled before a product  was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense Network .  Or it is closely 
analogous to such duties.   In either event as explained in the Anderson case a breach of that 
procedural requirement does not mean that the transaction in question  falls outside the scope of the 
relevant "business"  for which  responsibility is taken.
So if the adviser  breached the requirements in the Compliance Manual relating  to the process  for 
replacement business  in my view this factor does not mean  Intrinsic is not responsible for the advice 
given.
pre-approval of pension switching advice
Intrinsic has argued  that its Compliance Manual  includes  a requirement for preapproval  of pension  
switching advice.   I cannot  however find that requirement.
If there  is such a requirement  and if it was in a similar form to the requirement to get preapproval for 
insistent client business, my view is that such a restriction is similar in nature and effect  to the 
restriction relating  to the procedural  requirements for replacement business.  
It is therefore  my present view that if there is such restriction a breach  of it in this case  does not mean  
Intrinsic is not responsible for the advice given.
special requirements for pension transfers
The Intrinsic  Compliance Manual says that pension  switching should  be treated in the same way as 
pension transfers.    Advice to move from a personal pension to a SIPP is a pension switch  according 
to the regulators rules.   If the advice is to transfer from an occupational pension  to a SIPP, thats a 
pension transfer according to regulators rules.  But according to Intrinsics  Compliance Manual  both 
should be treated as pension transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual  the adviser  is required to pass Intrinsics  pensions transfer test before 
advising on (what Intrinsic calls)  pension  transfers.
Intrinsic has also provided evidence  from its records that appears to show that the adviser was 
permitted to give pension transfer advice  by Mint Financial before it was taken  over by Intrinsic.  But 
Intrinsic has also provided evidence  to show that the adviser in this case had not passed Intrinsics  
exam until May 2010.   And the advice to Mr R was in February 2010 ie before he had permission from 
Intrinsic to give advice on its behalf on what it calls pension transfers.   
It is the case that advice to transfer from an occupational pension to a personal pension  must be 
given by or approved  by a qualified  pensions transfer specialist under the regulators rules.  That  
Ref: DRN257851619requirement does not however cover pension  switching.   There is no regulatory  requirement for such 
advice to be given or approved only by a suitably  qualified specialist.
In this case the adviser gave what was clearly pension switching advice  which he recorded on 
Chartered Financial note paper.  And Intrinsic has said that he uploaded  that advice  letter/report to 
Intrinsics computer system.  He  did not in any way try to conceal that advice.
It is therefore  my view that the giving of the pension switching advice in breach  of the requirement to 
have passed Intrinsics internal test does not mean Intrinsic is not responsible for the advice given.  In 
my view the requirement  at least as regards  pension  switching  was like the other  procedural 
restrictions referred to above.
advice restricted to approved products
The Intrinsic  Compliance Manual includes the following:
All firms regulated by FSA entered  the depolarised  regime  on 1 June 2005.  As  an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels  and 
product ranges chosen  by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
The first three sections of the s.39 agreement deal with:
the commencement date and the identity of the parties.
A short section saying the agreement incorporates  various other documents including  the 
Compliance Manual.
an interpretation section.
Section 4 is the appointment section.  It  says:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purposes of carrying  on 
the Business.
4.2 The Member is not permitted to represent other counterparties or to carry on any other 
Regulated Activity or to promote,  sell or advise on any financial services or plans other that 
the Plans without the express written consent of Intrinsic, except the Member may make 
introductions to Independent Financial Advisers as permitted  by Intrinsic from time to time.
Business is defined as:
The business of acting as an Appointed Representative  of Intrinsic on the terms set out in 
this Agreement.
Plan is defined as:
Any policy,  investment agreement, mortgage or other agreement  or service specified from 
time to time in this Agreement.
Intrinsic has also provided a copy of its key facts about our service  and costs  document  from 
January 2010 which was normally handed to clients.  It  includes the following:
2. Whose products do we offer?
Investment
We offer products from the whole market
We can only offer products from a limited number  of companies.
Ref: DRN257851620Ask us for a list of the companies whose products we offer.
We only offer products from a single group of companies
The second  option of a limited number of companies with a list available  on request was ticked  on the 
form.
Intrinsic says neither [Mr Rs existing] personal  pensions nor Lifetime SIPPs were specified under the 
agreement.  It says they were not Plans on its approved list.  And I accept that is the case.
On the face of it therefore  advising on taking out of the Lifetime SIPP  was not business  of the type 
Chartered Financial was appointed  to carry on.  And if that is the case Intrinsic has not accepted 
responsibility for the advice.
However it is important  not to overlook the specific  facts  of this case.  Relevant  points are:
Chartered Financial  was an appointed representative of Mint which was taken over by 
Intrinsic.
The adviser  was classified as a competent adviser  for pension transfers by Mint.
The adviser  appears to have processed this transaction  in the usual way for a Mint 
transaction.
There is no evidence or suggestion that the adviser  was somehow trying to bypass normal 
systems and controls.
Lifetime SIPP has provided evidence to show it paid £920.85 commission to Intrinsic  or at 
least to an account in the name of Mint that was controlled by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has said the following:
I have checked our records and I unable to trace  a payment regarding this policy.  However, 
when The Intrinsic  Group purchased Mint Financial Services, a number of its back  office 
functions were kept which included  commission payments and allocation.   Unfortunately, 
given the different IT systems  used  by Intrinsic and Mint the commissions unit would not be 
aware of which cases had been approved by Compliance. Their sole purpose was to process  
the commissions.  I have been informed that this process was changed in the second half of 
2010.
Regardless of our process at the time, the fact remains that [the adviser] was not authorised  
to carry out the pension transfer  at the time as confirmed  in the membership  agreement and 
compliance manual.
I note that Intrinsic do not deny receiving  the payment  only that it cant now trace  it.  I note that the 
remittance advice evidence is the same date as the payment date on the SIPP account.   The  SIPP 
account does not show the later re-crediting  and re-debiting of the payment as it presumably would if 
the payment had been  rejected and a fresh payment  issued  to a different payee at a later date. 
If Intrinsic cannot  now trace the payment that suggests the money has come in and gone out again 
rather than the payment still being held unaccounted for in a suspense account.   This would tend to 
indicate that the payment was administered by Intrinsic   albeit by a part dealing with affairs relating 
to former  Mint Financial members  and a payment  in turn made  to Chartered  Financial. I say this 
because Chartered Financial  remained an appointed representative of Intrinsic and it seems to have 
regarded the matter  as a legitimate and routine transaction.  It  did not, for example try to conceal the 
transaction either by not documenting it or by perhaps using an unregulated sister company.  
Indeed Intrinsic has confirmed  that the adviser  uploaded the recommendation letter to its system  
(although that is not the same thing as seeking the approval of the Compliance Department). And 
Intrinsic has suggested that the adviser may have failed  to submit his suitability report to the 
Compliance Department  because of a lack of familiarity  with Intrinsics systems.   It therefore seems  
Ref: DRN257851621likely that Chartered Financial would  have  chased  the matter up to ensure it received payment for the 
work it had done if it had not been  passed  on promptly.
On balance it seems more  likely than not that the payment was made to Intrinsic and that it was 
therefore aware  that it had received a payment from an unlisted plan provider.  And that it processed 
that payment.  And so by this conduct it accepted, rather than rejected, the arranging of a deal in a 
non-listed plan.
I do not accept that Intrinsics acts are only binding  if carried out by the Compliance  Department.  It is 
my view that in processing  rather than rejecting the transaction and in particular  in receiving the 
commission payment from the non-approved plan provider, Lifetime  SIPP,  Intrinsic acquiesced in an 
application for a non-approved plan provided.
For the avoidance  of doubt I am not saying that commission was paid to Intrinsic and so advice  must  
have been given on its behalf.  That is not so.  
I do note the Frederick v Positive Solutions case on this point. In that case commission was paid by a 
mortgage lender to Positive Solutions and the court said this did not in itself make Positive Solutions 
liable for the advice given by one of its agents.  In the Court of Appeal the court said:
9. Commission was paid to the respondent by Abbey National in respect of the transactions  
but that commission was paid by the respondent into a suspense  account because it could 
not be matched  with any transaction on the respondents  systems. Thereafter, Warren  is said 
to have created  a false paper trail in order to access his percentage of the commissions. In 
the meantime,  the appellants properties remain subject to mortgages which they cannot  
discharge. 
70I agree with the Judge  that the fact that commission was received by the respondent does not 
assist the appellants. It was clearly generated automatically by the Abbey National systems and when 
received was held by the respondent in a suspense account, because the transaction  to which it 
related did not appear on the respondents books.  That if anything  is support for the Judges 
conclusion that this transaction was not carried  out as an integral part of the respondents business  or 
for its benefit, but was moonlighting  by Warren.
There are differences  between Mr Rs complaint and the Frederick case.  Positive  Solutions had 
arrangements in place to receive  commission from the lender.  The lender  was in effect  an approved 
plan provider.  And the adviser was said to have been moonlighting  advising on his own scheme.  In 
the present case there is no suggestion the adviser was advising  on his own scheme.  The advice 
was of a type the adviser could give - subject to passing the internal  exam and recommending a plan 
from the approved  list.  
Intrinsics prohibition on advising on non-approved  plans is not absolute.   It does include an 
exception.  The exception is that investments that are not on the approved list may be advised upon 
with written consent.
The question is therefore whether in the circumstances of this case  the advice  on a non- approved 
plan (the Lifetime SIPP)  is sufficiently closely linked to the activities for which  permission was given ie 
to promote, sell or advise  on listed Plans and non-listed  plans with written consent.  In my view since 
Intrinsic acquiesced in that transaction this is sufficiently closely linked  to the activities for which  
authority was given (which  includes advice  on non-list  plans with written consent) to mean  that 
Intrinsic is responsible for the advice.  
Further if Intrinsic is responsible for the advice to take out the Lifetime  SIPP this cannot be separated 
from the advice to switch  out of [the existing  personal  pensions].  The two things are inextricably 
linked.  There would not be one without the other. The advice was that it is better to have  the Lifetime  
SIPP than the [existing]  pensions.  Following the case of TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN257851622Service I am satisfied that we can consider the advice to dispose of the [existing pension]  plans  as 
part of the complaint  about  the advice  to buy the Lifetime SIPP which Intrinsic is responsible for.
my view  on whether the complaint is against Intrinsics appointed representative:
For all the reasons discussed above it is my view that this is a complaint against Intrinsics  appointed 
representative acting in its capacity as Intrinsics appointed representative.  The complaint  relates  to 
business Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for and Intrinsic is subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for complaints about that business.
These remaining  points can be dealt  with quickly  as they are not in dispute.   
is Mr R an eligible complainant?
Mr R is a natural  person  who was acting for purposes outside  his trade profession  or business when 
he was advised by Chartered  Financial.   And he was a client or Chartered Financial and therefore  a 
client of Intrinsic.  In my view Mr R is therefore a customer of Intrinsic and I am satisfied he is an 
eligible complainant.
territorial jurisdiction:
The compulsory jurisdiction  covers complaints about activities of a firm (including  its appointed 
representative) carried on form an establishment in the UK. There is not dispute that the activities 
complained about here took place from an establishment in the UK. 
was the complaint  made in time?
Mr R complains about advice in 2010.  He complained  to about that advice with six years of the 
disputed advice.   And he referred his complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service with six months 
of Intrinsics final response letter in reply to the complaint.  The  complaint was therefore made in time.
my provisional  decision on jurisdiction
For the reasons  discussed  above it is my provisional  decision that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can consider  this complaint.
my provisional  findings  - merits
In looking at the issue  of jurisdiction I have also been able to consider all the evidence and arguments 
we have so far obtained in order  to decide what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  I  have 
therefore decided  to set out my provisional view now  
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint I am required to 
take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules and guidance and standards; and codes of 
practice;
and where  relevant  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the relevant time
In January 2013 the FSA issued an Alert on pension  transfers with a view to investing  into 
unregulated products  through  SIPPs.
This complaint involves advice to invest in an unregulated investment scheme  through a SIPP.  
Although the Alert had not been issued at the time of the advice in this case, the Alert comments  on 
how the rules  at the time should have been complied with.  As  such the Alert sets out guidance  
albeit informal guidance that had not been published at the time  on how adviser  firms should have 
acted in 2010.
Ref: DRN257851623The Alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some  financial advisers are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) .  Examples   of   these   unreg ulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g an overseas 
property development).  When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment.  The financial adviser does not give advice 
on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment 
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally  requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
The above guidance is very clear. So too was Chartered Financials recommendation  letter  and report 
which closely fits the model described  and criticised above.  
Ref: DRN257851624It is my view Chartered Financial should not have recommended and arranged the SIPP transfer 
without also giving advice  on the suitability of the investment Mr R was proposing.  This means one of 
two things.  Either Chartered  Financial  should have advised on the suitability of the Jatropha  tree 
investment scheme for Mr Rs pension.  Or it should have refused to act if it was not willing  or able to 
advice on the proposed investment in Jatropha trees  so that Mr R could get advice from an alternative 
regulated adviser who would advise  on the suitability  of the investment.
was the investment suitable for Mr R
Mr R has said he would not have invested in the Sustainable Growth  fund if he any inkling that it was 
the slightest  bit risky.
Mr Rs attitude  to risk was recorded as balanced  growth in the recommendation report with 
an objective  to achieve a return using a portfolio with higher equity  content and a wider 
geographical spread  whilst aiming for consistent longer  term capital appreciation.  Investment  
will be predominantly in the UK and overseas  equities with an element of investment in fixed 
interest and property in order to provide growth orientated diversification confined within a 
moderate /higher level of volatility.  A level of predominantly dividend income is achievable.
This attitude to risk seems  broadly consistent with Mr Rs other  investment experience  and financial 
position  ie the acceptance  of some risk rather than the complete avoidance of risk.  But his attitude 
to risk is not so high that high risk speculative  investments would be suitable  pension  investments for 
him.
The investment Mr R invested in was not consistent  with the attitude  to risk as described by Chartered  
Financial.  It was not invested predominantly  in UK equities  and well diversified.   It was invested in a 
single commodity rather than equities and that commodity was based overseas  in a developing 
economy.  And  the investment was in an unregulated investment structure.   The  investment was 
clearly higher risk than the attitude  to risk identified  and recorded by the adviser.   He should  therefore  
have recommended that Mr R did not invest his pension  in that fund.
Alternatively if Chartered  Financial had refused  to act Mr R would have got that advice from some 
other regulated  investment  adviser.
Mr R had no particular  connection to the fund or the introducer who had recommended it to him in the 
first place.  There is therefore no reason to think that he would not have accepted clear and well-
reasoned advice from a regulated independent adviser.
Accordingly it is my view that but for Chartered Financials  error in thinking  it could  advise on the 
pension switch without  also advising on the proposed  investment, Mr R would not have invested in 
the fund. 
Mr R says he would not have transferred  away from the [existing pension provider]  if he had known 
the investment  was risky.  Given that:
Mr Rs pension was worth  about £44,000
SIPPs  tend to be higher  cost than non SIPP pensions which has a larger  impact on smaller  
pension funds
Mr Rs preferred form of investment of buy to let properties cannot be held in a SIPP
it does seem likely that Mr R would have left his [pensions]  unchanged if he had been given suitable 
advice.
how to put things right
In my view Intrinsic should put things  right as follows:
Ref: DRN2578516251. Obtain the notional transfer values  of Mr Rs transferred pensions as at the date of my final 
decision had they not been  transferred to the SIPPs.   
Intrinsic should ask the [personal pension  provider] to calculate  the notional transfer values they 
would have applied  as at the date of this decision  had Mr R not transferred his pensions but instead 
remained invested.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Rs SIPPs at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure.
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Rs SIPP  so that the transfer  values are increased by the amount 
calculated in (2). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.If its unable to pay the total amount into Mr Rs SIPP, it should pay the compensation  as a cash  sum 
to Mr R. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided  a taxable income.  So the 
total amount should be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Rs marginal  rate of tax at retirement. For 
example, if Mr R is a basic  rate taxpayer  in retirement, the notional  allowance  would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount  equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should  be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed by Mr R to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Intrinsic  given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that 
Mr R continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Intrinsic should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the fairest  way 
of putting Mr R back in the position he would have been in. 
So, to provide  certainty to both parties, I think its fair that Intrinsic pays Mr R an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or undertakes 
to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable  period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, Intrinsic may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking  to give 
it the net amount  of any payment they may receive from the investment  in that five year period, as 
well as any other payment  they may receive from any party as a result of the investment. That 
undertaking should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount they may receive.  
Intrinsic will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr R to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation awarded  by my decision may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Intrinsic wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking  for any 
future payments under  the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. If Intrinsic 
fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr R should then have  the option of trying to cancel the investment to allow 
the SIPP  to be closed.
Ref: DRN2578516265. Pay Mr R £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr R will have  been  caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, 
in effect, all of his normal  pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate  for that 
upset.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Intrinsic  should  pay fair compensation  in each 
of the complaints as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2578516