K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Ms W says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms W applied for her credit card and PPI online   she says that it wasnt made  clear  to her 
that the PPI was optional.  
Canada Square  provided information about  its online  sales  process, which  has shown that 
Ms W wouldve been presented with two options  - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were 
equally prominent, and Ms W wouldve had to select an option before she could complete 
her application.  Neither option was presented in a way that would suggest that taking or not 
taking PPI would influence being approved for the credit card,  and I havent seen anything  to 
show that Canada  Square did anything differently with Ms W. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think Canada Square made it clear that Ms W didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
doesnt remember this as it was so long ago.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms W got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it could have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN22378742Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237874