K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Cofunds  Limited  is to blame  for the failure to add funds to her childrens 
ISAs and wants it to correct this so that the additional money enjoys tax-free protection.
background
Ms N sent a cheque via her Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). The following  day the 
provider (a Cofunds-linked business) emailed to say that a key box had not been  ticked and 
this needed to be done by midday  for the funds  to be invested. The IFA did not act in time so 
the provider returned the cheque which was not then re-presented  till after the annual  ISA 
deadline.
Ms Ns IFA says that the box only needed  to be ticked on new ISA applications not top-up 
ones. He also questioned why the provider returned the cheque by second class post (which 
it received six days later) and made no attempt to phone or email to resolve  the issue.  He 
also denied  receiving the email concerning the unticked box.
Cofunds rejected  her complaint, saying  it had acted correctly given the box asked customers 
to confirm that they had read all the enclosed documentation, including the terms and 
conditions, and agreed to them. So this was a key requirement.
It also said that given  the unusually high number of ISA applications it was processing  close  
to the deadline it was not able to respond  more quickly.
In bringing her complaint to this service, Ms N said her signature should have superseded 
the need for the box to be ticked.
An investigator at this service felt that Cofunds was entitled to set out whatever conditions  it 
felt appropriate  to ensure it was acting correctly  on behalf of clients,  including  requiring a key 
box to be ticked in the case of ISA top-ups.
Ms N did not agree,  arguing it could have  acted more flexibly and proactively to ensure these 
funds secured ISA protection. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, I dont feel there 
is anything useful I can add.
Requiring customers to sign to confirm they were in receipt of the key documentation and 
accepted the terms and conditions is understandably something any business would insist 
on before  going  ahead with an investment instruction. I am satisfied that Cofunds was 
entitled to act in the way it did, and it is not for this service to suggest it should diverge from 
its chosen business practices when these are clearly outlined and not unreasonable.
Ref: DRN23107602my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2310760