K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have applied unfair 
charges following the termination of his hire purchase agreement.
background
In November 2015, Mr B took out a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS  to obtain a brand 
new vehicle. 
In January 2019, Mr B decided to voluntary terminate his agreement and booked an 
inspection and collection of the vehicle online.
VWFS sent a representative  from British Car Auctions (BCA) to independently  inspect and 
collect the vehicle.  On inspection, damage was found on the LHF lead wheel, which was 
outside the fair wear and tear guidelines as set out in the British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association guidelines (BVRLA). 
VWFS charged Mr B £224.75 (including VAT) for the damage to the wheel. Mr B says this 
was unfair  because:
At the time of the booking, the business  didnt make it clear that the inspection and 
collection of the vehicle was on the same day.
He asked for the collection to be delayed to give him the opportunity to rectify the 
damage.
He has previously replaced a tyre for £64.58  and so feels the charges are too high 
and even if he replaced the tyre with one of the same class, he has been quoted  
£118 and so feels he is being asked  to pay too much.
VWFS say Mr B booked the inspection and collection using their online facility. He arranged  
for them both to be carried out the same day. It uses qualified independent inspectors to 
assess the vehicle  in line with BVRLA guidelines and it was found the damage was outside 
the fair wear and tear guidelines. In accordance with the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs hire 
purchase agreement,  they have charged  him for the damage.  They further point  out the 
charges include  both the cost of the tyre and the labour cost to repair  it. They say their 
charges are at the lower  end of industry charges and are fair.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr B and found VWFS had acted fairly. She agreed  
the damage was outside the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines and under the terms and 
conditions of the hire purchase agreement VWFS were entitled to apply a charge  for repair.  
She reviewed the cost of same class  of tyre and found a range with the costs VWFS were 
charge being somewhere  in the middle range  and so she though the charges  fair and didnt 
ask VWFS  to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He still feels  the charge is too high and unfair  and so asked  for an 
ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed all the information from both 
Ref: DRN29269002parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view and for broadly 
the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute here about  the damage to the tyre or that it fall outside of the BVRLA fair 
wear and tear guidelines. The issue is whether VWFS  should have allowed Mr B the 
opportunity to rectify the damage and if it has acted fairly in applying a charge for the repair.
Firstly, Ive looked at the Voluntary Termination (VT) pack VWFS sent Mr B. It says the 
inspection and collection can be arranged on different  dates to allow  remedial work to be 
carried out. If Mr B chose to carry out any repairs himself it goes on to say an approved 
repairer, in line with the terms  and conditions of the hire purchase  agreement,  should  carry 
this out. 
Im satisfied the option to select different dates was available. Mr B booked  the inspection  
and collection online and he selected  the same  day option for both inspection and collection. 
In doing so, he didnt give himself the option  of carrying out the repair. I appreciate he says 
he asked the inspector  to give him time and this was refused but I havent any information 
either way on this point.  As the collection was booked  for the same  time, I cant say it was 
unfair or unreasonable for BCA to carry out the instruction to collect  the vehicle. Indeed, its 
possible Mr B could  have  incurred further  charges had he cancelled the collection.
Having considered the photographic evidence regarding the damage to the tyre I find it more 
likely than not Mr B should have  been aware  of it and could have arranged to have  it 
repaired before  the inspection  and collection was carried out. As he didnt,  and the damage 
falls outside the BVRLA  fair wear  and tear guidelines, VWFS are entitled to make a charge 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs hire purchase agreement.
In terms of the cost of replacing the tyre. The BVRLA guidelines  state the replacement tyres 
should be in the same class as those, which are sold on the vehicle. Mr Bs vehicle was 
brand new and so wouldnt have had budget  tyres fitted. The BVRLA  guidelines also state all 
tyres must comply with the manufacturers recommendations of type, class size and speed 
rating for the vehicle.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen the charge,  which includes the part and estimated labour 
costs falls within an acceptable range for wheel  replacement and so Im not going to ask 
VWFS to do anything further.
Whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, Im not going to uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29269003
Ref: DRN2926900