K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy,  Mr H says 
National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Copy of Provision  Decision
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2007 to 
cover further borrowing. Mr H says National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ref: DRN25148182I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was told he should take the PPI out to assist his mortgage application. He also says he 
was pressured into taking the PPI. Mr H appears to have taken his further borrowing and PPI out over 
the phone. I dont have  a copy  of this call recording  but considering the length of time since the sale 
I dont think this is unusual. Ive looked closely at the paperwork available from the sale to help me 
decide whats  likely to have  happened. Following the call NatWest sent him an offer of further loan 
letter. This letter details the further borrowing and has a section he could sign to accept  this offer 
(which Mr H subsequently did).
On this letter  there  is a paragraph that says when we completed the mortgage application  with you 
over the telephone, you indicated that you required Mortgage Repayment Protector. Our records 
indicate that we have not yet received your signed Mortgage Repayment Protector Direct Debit 
Mandate.. Enclosed was a duplicate direct debit mandate and NatWest asked him to sign and 
send it back. NatWest  has given us a copy of the direct  debit form for the PPI that was signed by Mr 
H. I note that Mr H didnt take PPI out with his original mortgage and theres nothing on the paperwork 
from around the time he applied for his further advance in 2007  to suggest taking the PPI would assist  
with his application.
Taking all of this into account, I think its more  likely NatWest made it clear  that Mr H didnt have  to 
take out the PPI in order  to assist with his further borrowing. On balance I think its more likely he 
opted to take it out knowing  he had a choice.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said about feeling pressured into taking the PPI. But Mr H hasnt 
given us much detail  about  what NatWest said or did to make him feel this way. In the absence of any 
further evidence to support  what hes told us, I dont think its likely NatWest placed  any undue 
pressure on Mr H to take the PPI.
NatWest didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him.
But it did have to make  sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr H doesnt feel the PPI was explained  properly  to him. Its possible  the information
NatWest gave Mr H during the meeting about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.
But for the reasons Ive given above I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any employee  benefits he wouldve  
received  and for up to 12 months  if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about  the 
PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
I want  to assure Mr H that Ive thought carefully about everything he has said.  But these points dont 
change my decision.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr H paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest treated him 
unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less than half of what  he paid for each 
premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on what weve  seen it 
looks like its right  Mr Hs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I 
dont think it needed to tell him about the commission   so I dont think NatWest treated him unfairly.  
This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr H back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN25148183I now invite  both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make,  in writing,  by 18 
April 2019 after which Ill issue my final decision.
Gemma Farrell 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2514818