K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unreasonably 
refused to pay her claim under her motor policy for the theft of her car. 
background
Mrs J parked her car in a church  carpark in the evening of 6 February 2019 to go to a 
meeting. When she came  out a couple of hours  later,  her car was gone.  She reported  it to 
the police  and her car was found  on 12 February,  badly damaged.
Mrs J couldnt find her spare key. On this basis, Advantage said it must have been stolen 
using the missing key. Mrs J said there was CCTV in the church  car park.  Advantage didnt 
look at the CCTV footage,  which  Mrs J said, showed the theft actually taking  place.
Mrs J complained but Advantage wouldnt change its mind,  so Mrs J brought her complaint  
to us. The investigator didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. Mrs J disagreed  so 
her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July and I said the following:
Under Mrs Js policy, Advantage has provided  cover if Mrs Js car is stolen. It wont 
cover any theft if the keys are left in the car or the car was left with the engine 
running unattended.
The photos  of Mrs Ms car show a damaged  lock, its hanging  out a little as if it has 
been tampered with. This is further confirmed  by the engineers  Advantage instructed 
to inspect Mrs Js car, after it was found. So it was incorrect  of Advantage to say in its 
final response letter, that there was no theft related damage, as there was in the 
photos produced  by its own instructed  engineers. 
Mrs M said the CCTV showed four men going around the carpark trying every car, 
before driving  off in hers. Its a great pity in my view Advantage and its reporting 
engineer didnt view this CCTV. 
Advantage instructed engineers to examine Mrs Js car. They  said they were 
instructed to interrogate the ECU.  They confirmed  there was a forced  entry into Mrs 
Js car but no damage to the steering lock or housing. They  said the faults  found  on 
the ECU  didnt relate to the theft.  And it was programmed  for two keys, one being  a 
remote. So they decided it was taken  with one of the programmed keys. Hence 
Advantages decision to refuse to pay Mrs Js claim.  
However, this doesnt fit in reasonably  with the circumstances  of the actual theft. Mrs 
Js car was in a church carpark with several  other  cars.  It wasnt  outside her home.  
Until the theft, Mrs J said she wasnt  aware  her spare key was missing.  Ive also no 
reason to disbelieve her account of the CCTV, which Advantage declined to view. 
She said that showed four men wandering about all the cars in the carpark trying to 
get into one. They damaged the lock on Mrs Js car as confirmed by the engineers 
instructed by Advantage. If the thief had the key to the car, why would he have 
damaged the lock? He could have simply unlocked it and then driven away.
Ref: DRN24050272So therefore, I dont  consider its at all rational, reasonable  or fair for Advantage to 
have concluded  Mrs Js car was driven  away by the thief using her missing  key, 
given the damaged lock. Further, its quite a leap in imaginative coincidence, if for 
example this thief stole Mrs Js spare key from her home without her being aware of 
any such theft. And then happened to find her car in this church  carpark. But then 
decided to damage the lock despite  having  the key, and then nonetheless decided to 
use the key and drive  off in it, stealing it. None  of that scenario makes much  sense  in 
my view. 
The media is full of all sorts of different  ways  a thief having  got into a car can then 
drive it away without  a key. Clearly, Mrs J locked her car, as otherwise, the lock 
wouldnt be damaged.  Therefore,  I consider  she took proper  care of her car. The 
engineers instructed by Advantage didnt consider any of the well-publicised  means 
of driving off in a car in their one-page report, so I dont consider their views  are at all 
persuasive. I agree with Mrs J that as she was unaware her spare key was missing  
there was nothing she could do to further  safeguard her car. It may well be that the 
missing key has nothing  to do with this theft at all, given  her lock was damaged  and 
so it appears the key wasnt used to open  her car door. It follows  therefore  its highly 
unlikely the key was then used to drive it away.
So I consider Advantage should now pay Mrs Js claim  subject to the remaining  
terms and conditions of her policy. It should also add interest to the payment from the 
date she made her claim.
This has all caused Mrs J from trouble  and upset, more especially given Advantage 
said there was no theft related damage when there was, as clearly  confirmed by its 
own instructed engineers.  So I consider  it should pay Mrs J the sum of £300  
compensation. Thats in line with other awards I have made in similar circumstances.
Mrs J accepted my provisional  decision.  Advantage did not. It pointed out that there  was no 
theft related  damage to the steering column, ignition barrel  and no further keys were 
programmed to the ECU,  bar the original two keys. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  if the thieves had Mrs Js key as in had stolen it 
from home some time previously, there would have been no reason for the lock on the door 
to have been damaged, as they could have used the key instead to gain entry  to the car. 
That in turn casts  serious doubt in my view that they had somehow  previously  stolen Mrs J 
key from her home and then also somehow  managed  to find the same car in this church car 
park by some stroke of luck since its not the case here that Mrs Js car was stolen from 
outside her home. 
It remains my view that it doesnt make sense  that the thieves then broke and damaged the 
lock, instead of using the key to open  the car door. And only then decided  to use the key to 
drive it away.  So I dont  consider Advantage have  adequately explained on the balance  of 
probabilities that the reason it refused to pay Mrs Js claim was because it was stolen using 
her missing  key. Added to that Mrs Js account  of the CCTV footage  which Advantage 
Ref: DRN24050273declined to view,  was that four men were wandering around the car park, trying the doors on 
several cars.  If they had a key to her car, they would  not have needed to do this.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs Js claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date she made her claim to the date it 
pays it. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate  documentation  
should be provided to Mrs J for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mrs J the sum of £300  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405027