K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
2004. Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs G
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Santander had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr and Mrs Gs consent
before adding the policy. Mr and Mrs G say the advisor didnt tell them PPI was being  added.  
As the mortgage  and MPPI were arranged during a meeting I dont  know what was 
discussed. There is not much paperwork available from the sale  but this isnt surprising 
considering how long ago it took place. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments 
alongside the limited paperwork we do have  and what I know in general about how 
Santander sold these  types of policies.  
Santander has told us a separate MPPI application form wouldve had to be completed for 
the MPPI  to be set up. It doesnt have this application, but it has provided  a mortgage 
submission form.  On this I can see that Paymentcare which  is the MPPI has been  circled, 
indicating that it was a product that Mr and Mrs G wanted. And whilst I cant say for certain 
what was discussed,  I think  its likely  that the MPPI, alongside other insurance, wouldve 
been spoken about.
Following this, Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter Santander sent to Mr and Mrs G. This 
confirms the MPPI has been set up and how much  it cost, as well as the date of the first 
payment. If Mr and Mrs G werent sure about  the MPPI I think  they wouldve questioned it at 
this stage. The MPPI wouldve also appeared on their bank statements, and I wouldve 
expected them to query this sooner.  
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented
as optional, although I can understand why Mr and Mrs G may not remember  this as it was 
so long ago.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check  that the MPPI  was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think that it 
was. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs G were both eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the
MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements  or known medical conditions. 
Ref: DRN28748982Mr and Mrs G both say they had some employer  benefits, so they didnt  need  the 
MPPI. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 months if either Mr or Mrs G were off work 
due to accident or sickness. The policy benefit  was split 50:50  so that if one of them  
was off work unwell  they would receive 50% of the benefit. This means they wouldve 
had peace of mind  that part of the mortgage  payment would  be covered, and any 
employee benefits could be used to help cover every day expenses  or other financial  
commitments. The PPI wouldve also paid for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs G were 
made redundant. 
Mr and Mrs G were taking on a significant  and long-term financial commitment,  which  
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them.  And I think having the security that their repayments  
wouldve been made if they were  unable to work wouldve been important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs G. And as the 
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have  amended or cancelled  the 
policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs G about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2874898