K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation Zenith  Insurance Plc offered under  his motor insurance  
policy for his motorbike when it was deemed  to be beyond economical repair.  
background
Mr Ss motorbike  was damaged in a fire and Zenith deemed it to be beyond  economical 
repair. Zenith eventually  offered  Mr S £2,300 in settlement of his claim and less the £300  
policy excess. But Mr S thought his bike was worth more. He thought  it was rare because of 
its age.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the policy should  be upheld.  He thought it fair to base a 
valuation on the sold prices of two similar bikes. He thought Zenith  should  pay Mr S the 
average of these, £2,500, less the policy excess.  And he thought  Zenith should pay Mr S 
£150 compensation for his trouble and upset  caused by its initial valuations.
Zenith agreed to do this. But Mr S replied that he couldnt buy a like for like bike for this 
settlement. He said his bike was in better  condition  than the ones used in the comparison. 
He said his bike had been rebuilt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S wants the best possible offer for his bike.  I can see that Mr Ss 
policy provides for the market value of his motorbike in the case  of its total loss. This is 
defined in the policy as the UK cost of replacing  the bike with one of the same make, model, 
age, condition, specification and mileage at the time of the loss. Ive seen  other policies 
which provide an agreed  value  in the case of total loss. These are used in the case  of rare 
vehicles. But Mr Ss policy doesnt provide this. 
Zenith initially offered  Mr S £900,  less the policy excess, for his bike. When Mr S disputed  
this, it eventually increased its offer to £2,000. Its now agreed to pay Mr S £2,500 less the 
£300 policy excess. 
The adjudicator has explained this services  approach to motor  valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for vehicles but seek to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we usually obtain  valuations from 
motor-trade guides.  These are used for valuing  second hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely  because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account,  for example, engineers reports.
In Mr Ss case, the motor trade guides dont provide valuations for his bike.  So our 
adjudicator thought a fair approach would be to base a valuation  on the average of two 
recently sold bikes that were similar  to Mr Ss. 
Ref: DRN26441252Mr S provided Zenith with examples of similar bikes to his own advertised for sale in Europe  
at prices between £2,900  and £4,810.  But his policy states that the market value is based on 
UK prices. So I dont think Zenith should  have relied on these.
Mr S found  one bike for sale in UK which  sold for £1,995 but he said this bike needed to be 
rebuilt. He also found a similar bike to his own sold at auction for £3,020. Mr S told us that 
the bike was in a similar condition to his. The adjudicator  thought it would be fair to base a 
settlement on the average of these two sale prices. 
Mr S has provided further examples of bikes  similar to his own advertised  for sale.  The 
prices asked are significantly higher than Zeniths  offer. One example was provided nine 
months after his claim. The bike is the same age as Mr Ss, but with significantly less 
mileage. 
The other examples  were  provided 17 months after Mr Ss claim.  These  dont give me any 
information about the bikes other than their year of manufacture and the asking prices. In 
any case, I dont  think  these ads provide information  about  the value of his bike at its time of 
loss. So I dont think it would be fair to consider them.  
Also, we dont find advertisements  particularly persuasive as these are essentially  asking  
prices and arent selling  prices. Its for this reason  that the trade guides are used  as they 
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.  And in Mr Ss case, I think  Zenith  has 
reasonably agreed  to the adjudicators proposal to base the offer on recent sale prices. 
Mr S said that the two bikes  used in the adjudicators proposed valuation were  projects 
whilst his bike had been rebuilt. I agree that the cheaper bike was sold on the basis  of it 
being a project.  But, from the information Mr S provided, I think the more  expensive bike,  
which was rarer than Mr Ss and had less mileage, was sold on the basis that it could be 
used immediately or further  restored. 
So, from what I can see of age, mileage  and condition, I think  Mr Ss bike was worth less at 
its time of loss than the more expensive comparison bike. I also think Mr Ss bike was worth 
more than the bike which needed to be restored. So I think the suggested valuation  of a 
midway point between  these two sold prices is fair and reasonable. I think  Zenith should pay 
Mr S £2,500,  less his £300 policy excess,  in settlement of his claim.
I also agree  that Zenith should  have  taken more care in making its initial  valuation  of Mr Ss 
motorbike. I think this could have avoided trouble and upset for Mr S. The adjudicator 
recommended that Zenith should  pay Mr S £150 compensation for this. I think  thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar situations. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance  Plc to do the 
following, as its agreed to do:
1.Pay Mr S £2,200 in total in settlement of his claim  for the total loss of his motorbike.
2.Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by initial  
valuations of his motorbike.
Ref: DRN26441253Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2644125