K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold a Platinum packaged bank 
accounts to her in July 2006 and a Premier  account  in November 2010
background
Our adjudicators looked at Ms Ps complaint and didnt think  Lloyds had mis-sold the 
packaged accounts. Ms P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision is only looking at the sale of Ms Ps packaged bank  accounts.  I note that Ms P 
has mentioned that she wants her bank overdraft charges refunded but she does not seem 
to have raised this with the business  so she would need to raise this directly with Lloyds  first 
if she wishes to complain  about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  accounts to Ms P. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms P was given a clear choice in taking her packaged 
accounts. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  having weighed up what  Ms P and Lloyds 
have been able to provide me with.  
Ms P says she was told she had to take the accounts to get an overdraft. But that doesnt 
explain why she upgraded on two occasions. And it looks like she already had an overdraft 
before both upgrades and her overdraft  did not increase at the time of upgrades  either. 
So having  carefully thought about  everything, I think its unlikely Ms P was misled into taking 
the packaged accounts on the basis she has described.
Lloyds has said that it recommended  the Platinum and Premier accounts to Ms P. So Lloyds 
needed to make sure it made fair recommendations, by taking adequate steps to ensure that 
the selected accounts were a reasonable fit for Ms Ps circumstances at the time they were 
recommended. 
Having thought about Ms Ps circumstances  and her actions since taking the accounts, I 
dont think that Lloyds unfairly  or inappropriately recommended  the Platinum or Premier 
accounts to her. I say this because I think that Ms P was attracted to some  of the benefits, 
was able to use some of them and couldve used  others too. 
The information from when the Platinum account  was sold suggests  it was recommended  for 
family travel insurance and enhanced  breakdown cover. Ms P travelled and she had a 
family. I also understand that she contacted the travel insurance provider on a couple of 
occasions too. And this suggests  to me that she was relying on the travel  insurance included 
on her account. Ms P also had a more  comprehensive level of breakdown cover available to 
her on the Platinum account  then she could have had on a cheaper account. And I 
understand that Ms P used the enhanced features of the breakdown  cover  too.
Ref: DRN28585742When Ms P upgraded to the Premier account she continued to have all the benefits  shed 
had on her Platinum  account. In addition to this, Ms P also had home  emergency  cover 
available to her. As Ms P claimed on this cover it would suggest  she had a need  for it. And 
Ms Ps use of it suggests she found having it useful. Id also point out the Premier account  
was the only one in Lloyds range to include  home emergency cover.
I accept that the Platinum  and Premier  accounts  included other benefits and that Ms P may 
neither have wanted nor needed  all of them. But the benefits on packaged accounts arent 
tailored to individuals and its rare for an accountholder to find each and every benefit useful. 
At the time they were  recommended, the Platinum and Premier accounts  were the cheapest  
or only one in Lloyds range to include all of the benefits Ms P appears to have had a want 
and need for at the time of sale. So I dont think it was unfair  for Lloyds to recommend those 
accounts to her.
Ms P has said that she had a pre-existing medical  condition, but she does not seem to have 
had any travel insurance claims declined due to this, and indeed has made  a successful 
claim. So I dont think  she has been  negatively affected by this or that this would have 
changed her decision  to take out the accounts. I accept that Ms P may not have been  told 
everything else about all of the benefits  that the account came  with but I cannot see anything  
specific that I think wouldve altered her decision  to take out either account. 
Ms P may now believe she hasnt benefitted from her packaged accounts as much as shed 
hoped and expected. And given what she may have read about  packaged  bank accounts  in 
general, I can understand why she might now think her accounts  were mis-sold. But I think  
its most  likely Ms P upgraded  after having been  provided with a choice. And having thought 
about everything, Ive simply not seen  enough  here to be able to say that Ms P was misled 
into agreeing to her account being  changed or that they were mis-sold because  they didnt fit 
her needs  or circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2858574