K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the service he received from Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited after he asked  it about making  a claim under his home insurance policy.
background
In December 2018, Mr P noticed a crack in the wall of his property which caused him 
concern. He says he rang Admiral to explain  and was told someone would contact him.
On 12 February 2019, Mr P still hadnt been contacted by Admiral.  He therefore rang it 
again. He was again promised that someone would contact him. He was also promised it 
would send him his policy  document.
Later in February  2019, Mr P still hadnt heard from Admiral.  He therefore contacted it again.
In March 2019, Mr P still hadnt heard from Admiral. He therefore made a complaint.
In April 2019, Admiral issued a final response letter on the complaint. It said that the first 
record it had of Mr P contacting it was on 12 February 2019.  It said it had sent Mr P a copy  
of the policy  document when he requested it at this time and had sent a further copy in 
March 2019. It said it had also made several attempts to contact Mr P during March 2019  
though it accepted it not called him back as promised following the call of 12 February  2019.  
It apologised  for this error and offered £150 compensation.
Mr P was unhappy at Admirals response. He referred his complaint to us.
In the meantime, Admiral  arranged  for a surveyor to visit Mr Ps property. After receiving the 
surveyors report, Admiral declined Mr Ps claim on the basis that the crack was not due to 
subsidence.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  
Admiral had compensated Mr P adequately for its failure to contact him.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He drew  attention  to the surveyors report and 
said he disagreed  with it. He also said that Admiral hadnt contacted  him as promised since 
the surveyor had issued his report.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
First, let me clarify the subject of this complaint.  It concerns Admirals initial failure  to contact 
Mr P after he enquired about  making  a complaint. It deals with events up until Admiral issued 
its final response letter on 1 April 2019.  I havent considered  events beyond  that date.
Since referring his initial complaint to us, Mr P has raised other concerns with us about the 
content of the surveyors  report  and Admirals  failure  to contact him following the issuing  of 
Ref: DRN22963312this report. These events  took place after 1 April 2019. I therefore havent considered them  
in this decision. As the investigator has explained,  Mr P needs  to make a new complaint to 
Admiral in the first instance about these  matters.
With regard to the subject matter  of this complaint, it appears that Admiral has no record  of 
Mr P contacting it in December 2018. However,  it accepts  that Mr P contacted it on 
12 February 2018 and that, while it sent him the policy document  as requested,  it failed to 
get the relevant department to contact him to discuss his claim. After Mr P called back again, 
it made a number of attempts to contact Mr P by telephone during March 2018  but it appears 
that Mr P is reluctant to receive  calls for fear of being scammed and so no contact was 
made.
Admiral has provided evidence to support the above timeline of events. It has offered £150  
compensation for any trouble caused to Mr P through  its failure  to contact him following his 
initial call of 12 February 2018. Im satisfied  that this is fair compensation. I dont consider 
that Admiral needs  to pay Mr P anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2296331