K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) would not settle  his building  insurance 
claims for storm  damage  to his roof or for separate water damage to his kitchen ceiling.
Background
Mr D made  a claim on his building insurance with UIA. An area of Mr Ds kitchen ceiling 
collapsed and when  his sister  was looking for the cause found roof tiles missing  and water  
damage to the carpet in the loft conversion  as well.
Mr D phoned UIA to make a claim.  But UIA told him that he didnt have building  insurance 
with them.  It took Mr D a further  4 days of making  calls and worrying  about whether he was 
insured before UIA found that they did in fact cover  him. UIA then raised two separate  
claims: one for the water damage to the kitchen ceiling; and another for storm damage to his 
roof. UIA acknowledged the confusion  and offered to waive the excess  on these claims.
UIA appointed a loss adjuster who reported the property  to be in a poor state of repair. UIA 
say that the damage to the kitchen ceiling wasnt caused by an insured event. UIA also say 
that the missing  roof tiles were not due to storm damage. UIA rejected Mr Ds claims.
Mr D complained to UIA about the claim  process  and the fact they refused to settle  his claim. 
He said the loss adjuster had misled him about the claim; and that personal  information was 
given to his local council that he hadnt  agreed to. UIA looked  into his complaint  and didnt 
uphold it. They didnt  change  their position on the claims. They gave Mr D £100  
compensation which reflected the excess that they offered  to waive.
Mr D was unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He decided that UIA acted fairly in turning down 
Mr Ds claims.  He didnt think that UIA were clear  enough in their communication  with Mr D 
though, which let Mr D believe his claims were progressing. He suggested  that a further  
£300 compensation be paid to Mr D for the way his claim was mishandled.  AIU accepted this 
suggestion, but Mr D was unhappy  and didnt think it went  far enough. He asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. So I have looked  at this complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy  covers him for damage caused  by a given list of insured events. It doesnt  
cover him for every situation.  UIA say they havent been shown that the damage  was caused 
by one of them. So its refused to pay the claim. Ive considered if that decision is fair and 
reasonable.
Looking at the damage to the kitchen  first. Mr Ds policy covers him for damage  caused by 
escape of water from domestic  water or heating installations, including  damage  caused by 
freezing. Mr D feels it was caused by an escape of water from the upstairs bathroom. He 
believed that water froze in the waste pipe of the bathroom sink, and the tap dripping could 
have caused a build up in the sink and an overflow  of water.  Mr D explained that there  was 
water in the kitchen  when  he found the plaster  had come away.  Mr D didnt see the damage 
occur so is basing it on the circumstances.
Ref: DRN28417342UIAs loss adjuster  looked at the circumstances too and decided that explanation was 
unlikely. They highlighted an absence of water damage to the carpet by the bathroom sink 
making it unlikely that an overflow caused the ceiling below to come away.  UIAs loss 
adjuster considered a range of other possibilities  but didnt consider any of them  likely.
Ive considered Mr Ds explanation  and the loss adjusters report. The loss adjuster points  out 
the fact that Mr D didnt  need any plumbing  repairs to cracked or leaking pipes. That makes 
it difficult to see how the damage could have  occurred  by a leak. Overall it hasnt been 
shown the ceiling damage was most  likely caused by an insured event so I think UIAs  
decision not to cover it is fair.
Moving onto the damage to the roof. Mr Ds policy covers him for damage caused  by storm. 
When looking at a complaint about  a storm damage claim we consider three  main  issues:
1.Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date that the damage  happened:
2.Is the damage consistent with damage a storm may cause?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mr D hasnt been able to provide an explanation  as to how or when the damage happened,  
so Ive checked the weather conditions  in the weeks before the claim was made. In that time 
there were occasions where I think the wind was at storm  levels, accompanied with high 
levels of rainfall. I therefore think there may have been storm conditions  prior to the damage 
being found.
Regarding the second question,  I think  that tiles being moved or dislodged is damage that 
can be associated with storm force winds. So I think that the answer to the second question  
above may also be yes.
In relation to the third question  though, I dont believe that the storm was likely to be the 
main cause of the damage. The photos  provided show a property in a poor state of 
maintenance, with the roof additionally appearing neglected. Whilst I cant  say that poor 
weather didnt contribute to the damage to the roof, I must  base  my decision on the available  
evidence. On balance  I think  that it was fair and reasonable for UIA to decide that storm was 
not the main cause  of the damage to the roof or the carpet in the loft room.
It took six months from Mr D making  his claims,  to being informed that they were  being 
rejected. Mr D said that during that time he thought his claim was going to be paid. Having 
looked at the correspondence, in particular the explanation about why a loss adjuster was 
being appointed, I think that Mr D has a point. Mr D made it clear  in his emails  that he didnt 
know what a loss adjuster  was or why one was needed. I think the explanation of the loss 
adjusters role created the impression that their job was simply to help coordinate the repairs 
and progress the claim. I think that after UIAs first contractor attended though, UIA knew  
there were likely to be questions about  whether  the damage was caused by insured events 
and should have made this clear to Mr D.
Whilst I dont think  that the time taken in concluding these claims was unreasonable,  I do 
think that UIA could  have  communicated  with Mr D better during that time. Its failure to do so 
caused unnecessary  distress and inconvenience  for Mr D.
Mr D felt that the loss adjuster that UIA appointed treated him unfairly in contacting the local 
authority about  his situation. I can see that this has upset Mr D but dont agree it was an 
unfair thing  to do. Ive seen the correspondence about this and cant  see that it was done for 
any reason other than to try to help Mr D. The loss adjuster asked Mr D if he could contact 
Ref: DRN28417343the council on his behalf and he agreed. I think the action taken was fair and reasonable and 
done out of concern for Mr Ds circumstances, rather  than to cause any upset.
For the trouble  caused in telling Mr D that he wasnt covered by them initially,  UIA paid him 
£100 compensation. That was because they had offered to waive  the excess  which was the 
same amount. I dont  believe  that decision was made following a full consideration of the 
impact the mistake had on Mr D. I think it would be fair to award Mr D a further  £300  in 
compensation for the initial mistake and the way he was dealt with. I think this reflects the 
impact on him as a vulnerable person.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that UIA (Insurance)  Limited  pay Mr D a 
further £300 in compensation, in addition to the £100  they have already paid him. 
UIA (Insurance) Limited need to pay this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr D has accepted 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it should add interest to the compensation at 8% 
simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2841734