K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Miss M complain that NRAM Limited  mis-sold them  an interest  only mortgage. 
They want  a refund of the extra interest they believe theyve overpaid.
background
Mr H and Miss M had an interest only mortgage with NRAM, which they took out in 2006 and 
changed the product in 2007, without being  advised  by NRAM. They felt that it had been 
mis-sold as when they told NRAM about their financial circumstances and asked to move  
onto a better interest rate, they said NRAM refused as their income wasnt enough. 
Mr H and Miss M sold the property in 2017 but felt if NRAM had helped them, they could still 
be living there.
Mr H and Miss M complained to NRAM. It explained that it wasnt  required to offer new 
products to Mr H and Miss M, who had moved  onto the standard variable rate (SVR) when 
their product  ended. NRAM also explained  that it stopped offering new lending  and never  
promised to continue  to lend to customers. It said Mr H and Miss M had the benefit  of a 
discounted SVR rate due to loyalty and didnt agree that they were mortgage prisoners.
Mr H and Miss M complained to us. The investigators view was that NRAM wasnt at fault. 
She said that NRAM wasnt obliged to offer new products  or change its interest rates,  and it 
was able to set its own SVR (by following the guidelines of the Financial Conduct Authority). 
The investigator said that NRAM made it clear when Mr H and Miss M took out the product 
when the fixed  interest  rate would end and what would happen in the offer they accepted.  
She pointed  out that despite the arrears history, NRAM  hadnt  issued possession 
proceedings and tried to help as much  as it could, but it didnt have to reduce its interest 
rates. Mr H and Miss M disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Miss M have described  their complaint as being one of mis-selling. Technically, 
that isnt correct. NRAM didnt advise Mr H and Miss M about  their mortgage product taken 
out in 2007. And in any event, complaints about later events arent really mis-selling 
complaints. What Mr H and Miss M are saying is that NRAM didnt  act fairly when they were 
in financial difficulties as it didnt reduce their interest rate or offer them a new product.
From the evidence available to me, its clear that Mr H and Miss M were struggling  to pay 
their interest only mortgage, so a repayment mortgage wasnt  affordable.  They were in 
financial difficulties and got into arrears. Lenders  are required to treat such consumers fairly.
But I can see that NRAM listened to what Mr H and Miss M had to say about their financial 
circumstances, and worked with them as much  as it could, including  considering  payment 
holidays. But due to the financial crisis,  it stopped  offered  new products or lending,  and I 
cant say thats unfair or unreasonable as lenders are able to use their commercial 
judgement. 
Ref: DRN21970072And lenders arent required to reduce their interest rates (as long as the SVR is set in 
accordance with the guidelines from the regulator),  and its fair and reasonable for a lender 
to keep the interest rate for a mortgage as set out in the mortgage offer.  The mortgage offer 
accepted by the consumers set out clearly what would happen to the interest rate once the 
product ended, and Mr H and Miss M also got the benefit of a loyalty  discount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss M to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2197007