K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because she says Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A. has declined a claim she made  on her travel  insurance policy. 
background
Mrs C was on holiday with her two daughters. They  planned to travel from Dubai to Spain 
before returning  to the UK. Unfortunately, whilst  in Dubai  she became unwell with heatstroke  
and/or gastroenteritis.  She decided to return to the UK and claimed for her additional 
expenses in Dubai as well as her unused accommodation and flights relating to her trip to 
Spain. 
Mapfre declined the claim. The initial medical  report said that she wasnt  fit to fly and said 
she had acute gastroenteritis. A further medical  report diagnosed acute gastroenteritis and 
unspecified heatstroke. It said that Mrs C would be fit to fly from the 16 August 2017. A 
different report contained a similar diagnosis and recommended five days  bed rest. A further  
report, obtained after Mrs C had returned to the UK, said that Mrs C was very ill and it was 
medically necessary  for her to return to the UK so thats why she was certified as fit to fly 
from the 16 August.   
Mapfre covered Mrs Cs medical expenses but not the other  expenses  shed claimed  for. 
They issued a final response letter in which they said Mrs C hadnt contacted them  to 
discuss cutting short her holiday. They said that if Mrs C had got in touch to ask about this 
then they wouldnt  have agreed to this because it wasnt medical necessary for Mrs C to 
return to the UK. They also pointed out that there  were differences  in the medical evidence 
as theyd been given two different versions  of the fit to fly certificate. Mapfre  said there  
wasnt evidence to suggest Mrs C couldnt  have travelled  to Spain. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and rejected the complaint. He said that the 
insurer hadnt authorised the trip to be cut short and for Mrs C to return to the UK. So he 
didnt uphold  the complaint. A different investigator  reviewed the complaint and upheld  it in 
part. She said Mapfre had agreed  to cover some of Mrs Cs hotel expenses  which  was fair. 
But she also thought they should pay Mrs C for the cost of a flight  from Dubai to Spain. 
Mapfre accepted  the investigators findings  but Mrs C didnt agree. She said she would have 
needed her daughters to stay with her and its unreasonable  for Mapfre  to expect  her to stay 
on her own in a foreign  country. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  The policy  terms say: 
We must  agree for you to return to your home area (or your final country  of a one-
way trip) under section  B (Medical and other expenses) or Section A (Cancelling  and 
cutting short your holiday). If we do not agree, we will not provide  cover and we may 
reduce the amount we pay you to return to your home area (or the final country  of a 
one-way trip). 
Ref: DRN28017672And: 
You must get our permission if you have  to cut your holiday  short and return  early  to 
your home area (or your final country  if you are on a one-way trip) for an insured 
reason. If you are unable  to contact us for permission you must get a doctors  
certificate in resort confirming the medical necessity  for you to return home earlier  
than planned.   
Under the policy terms a trip can be cut short if the policyholder, a relative, or a person  the 
policyholder is travelling with becomes seriously  ill. A trip cannot be cut short because the 
policyholder doesnt want to travel. 
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint because:  
Neither Mrs C or her daughters discussed  cutting  short  their trip with Mapfre before 
booking flights back to the UK. The medical evidence indicates  that Mrs C was told 
that the earliest she could travel would be the 16 August.  But the flights were  booked 
on the 13 August,  before a detailed  discussion with Mapfre about this plan of action 
took place
During the calls Mapfre did explain to Mrs Cs daughter that they may not cover the 
associated costs  of cutting the trip short. The advisor said that Mrs C could pay and 
claim for the medical  costs. But I dont think that this guidance can reasonably be 
interpreted as to having extended to the issue of cutting the trip short. 
The advisor explained shed need information  showing that it was medically  
necessary for one daughter  to stay with Mrs C. In a further call the advisor said the 
claims team would need to review whether it was necessary to cut the trip short.  By 
this point in time Mrs Cs daughter had already booked the flights. I note that this was 
only the day after Mrs C had first become unwell
Mapfre has paid the medical costs  which  I think  is reasonable. And I think it is fair 
they pay for the share  of the accommodation in Dubai and Mrs Cs unused flight to 
Spain. But I dont think its unreasonable for them to reject  the claim for the other  
costs associated with cutting the trip to Spain short and returning to the UK early.  
The medical evidence  from the time doesnt suggest it was medically necessary for 
her to return to the UK 
A later report from the doctor  in Dubai  was prepared  after Mrs C had returned to the 
UK, and after her claim was declined.  So I dont think  its unreasonable for Mapfre  to 
place less weight  on this report than the evidence  it was presented with at the time of 
the claim, given  the significant passage  of time
Ultimately,  whilst I can appreciate why Mrs C wanted to go home  to the UK, she 
didnt do so following  discussion with her insurer. And the medical  evidence  from the 
time doesnt suggest it was medically necessary for her to do so at that point.
putting things right
Mapfre needs to pay Mrs C the cost of a flight to Spain from Dubai. I think  its fair and 
reasonable that Mapfre calculate this based on a reasonable proportion of the costs shown 
Ref: DRN28017673on Mrs Cs original ticket for the journey.  
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part and direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to put things  right in the way Ive outlined  above. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my 
decision before  5 January 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2801767