K820x#14Complaint
Its argued that the late Mr and Mrs F were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax.  
The complaints been brought by a representative  of Mr and Mrs Fs estate (the 
representative).
Background
In 1993, Halifax  sold Mr and Mrs F a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments if either of them was unable to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. The representative disagreed, and 
also rejected Halifaxs  recent offer of £50 in total for its handling of the complaint, so the 
case was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 1993,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached  my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence which includes a document dated 1993  and headed Summary of Cover. While 
theres nothing to conclusively show Mr and Mrs F agreed to the PPI, theres  nothing  to 
show they didnt  either.  That the PPI wasnt added until several years after the mortgage  
started indicates to me that Mr and Mrs F may well have agreed  to take it out. So I see no 
reason to uphold  the complaint on these grounds.
Halifax has considered  the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. 
That meant Halifax needed to take steps  to ensure  its advice was right for them.  Regardless 
of what steps it took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what I know about  the scope of the policy and from what Mr and Mrs F 
have told us about their circumstances, it seems they were  eligible for the cover.  In saying  
that I gather Mrs F might have been  working  part-time but it looks  like shed have qualified 
for the cover as long as she worked 16 hours  or more a week   and I cant see that she 
wasnt. I also gather Mr F was often in and out of work around  the time of the sale and that 
he may not have been with his employer  at the time for very long. But I dont know that this 
would have counted against  him as theres not enough to show  he was actually out of work 
at the relevant time.  Nor do I think it likely the policy required him to have  been  employed for 
a specified period of time before he became eligible to benefit  from it.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs F were affected  by any of the main  things  the policy excluded or 
limited cover  or that theyd have found  the monthly premium unaffordable  either.
Ref: DRN27705352It seems  as though Mrs F might have been entitled  to enhanced sick pay from her employer. 
But it looks  as though Mr F wasnt. I gather they also had no savings or other  means of 
meeting their mortgage repayments if they werent  working. The PPI benefits, on the other 
hand, were considerable and potentially paid out (on top of any existing work  benefits) for up 
to 12 months for each  successful disability claim. It covered them  for unemployment too. 
Taking into account that Mr and Mrs F were in a long-term financial commitment that was 
secured against  their home, its likely theyd have valued the protection  the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs F enough  information about the PPI to allow them to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information it gave 
them could have  been better  than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI 
was unsuitable  for them,  I dont think that better information would have changed their 
decision to take it. I think  theyd still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable  
cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mrs F lost out because of how they 
were sold the PPI. 
Ive thought carefully about the argument that the PPI was mis-sold because  Mr F was 
subsequently unable to claim on it when he lost his job. Unfortunately  without anything to 
show Mr F attempted to claim, or any details of what he may have been told or why, I cant 
say this changes  the outcome. 
Halifax accepts it made  errors  in how it handled this complaint.  In recognition,  its offered to 
pay £50 in total as compensation and I think thats fair in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.  But Bank of Scotland plc 
should pay £50 in total as compensation for the way in which  it handled the complaint, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of Mr and Mrs Fs estate  to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2770535