K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made it clear  that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive been  given 
a copy of the credit card application which was completed at the time and this includes a 
section about  PPI. In this section there  is a box to sign if you want to take out the PPI. If Mr J 
didnt want to take out the cover, he could have left the box blank.
Mr J has said he just signed where  he was instructed  to and he had no choice about the PPI. 
But this form was posted to Mr J to complete and so there doesnt appear to have been any 
interaction with BoS at the time. And as Mr J was making an application for additional credit I 
think he would have  read through the document to make sure he understood what  he was 
agreeing to. And upon reading the PPI section I think he would have seen that he only had 
to sign the box if he wanted the cover.
Ive noted that Mr J has said he didnt know that the PPI was being charged  but Ive seen 
that the premium  for the policy showed  as a separate entry  on his credit card statements. If 
Mr J didnt know what this charge was for, I think he would have questioned  this with BoS 
sooner than he did.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr J about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN23603732Ive thought about everything that Mr J has said  including  what  he has told us about his 
employee benefits. Mr J has said that he would receive six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from his employer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness. But 
this policy  would have  paid out for up to 12 months  and this would be in addition to any sick 
pay benefits he would receive and potentially  for longer  than he would receive  full pay. And 
the policy would have paid out for the same length of time if he was to lose his job. As Mr J 
doesnt appear to have  had any savings or other  means with which to meet  his repayments if 
he wasnt working, I think this policy could have provided a useful  benefit  to him and so 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2360373