K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly  declined  the 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
background
In 2018 Mr and Mrs H made a claim to RSA after they discovered problems with the upper 
parts of the front and rear walls of their home. They appeared to have moved  and a builder
recommended both be rebuilt  to ensure their safety. Mr H noted there had been storms in 
October 2017 and thought they may be the cause of the movement.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the damage.  They didnt think the storm had 
caused the problem and declined the claim. Mr H took advice  from a builder who said storm 
force winds had caused the problem. RSA had a surveyor consider the cause of damage, 
but they still didnt agree that the recent storm had caused the damage.
Mr and Mrs H complained, and RSA gave a final response.  They said the damage hadnt  
been caused by a single incident, it had happened  gradually. The claim remained declined.  
Mr and Mrs H referred  their complaint  to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought that RSA had acted fairly. She said 
the damage to the walls wasnt  the result of a one-off event,  such as a storm, and said there 
was no other  cover  available on the policy for this damage.
Mr H disagreed. He said there  had been no explanation for the movement  other than the 
storm in October 2017.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt  agree, it was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 January 2020. It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
The policy covers damage  to the building as a result  of storm. When  this service  looks  at a 
complaint about  a storm claim, theres  three  main  points  we consider:
1. do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to
have happened?
2. is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes? and
3. were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  yes to all three questions that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim.  In this case the answer  is yes to all three, so Im asking RSA to deal with the 
claim.
The answer to the first question is yes. RSA hasnt  disputed  that there were storm 
conditions in October 2017.  In late October  2017  Storm Brian  impacted the area of the UK in 
which Mr and Mrs H live and Im satisfied that weather records  show storm force winds.
Ref: DRN24806552For the second question,  the answer is broadly yes.  Strong  winds can move  walls and 
building structures.
To answer  the third question, Ive considered the various reports  and opinions  about what  
the damage is and what is likely to have caused it. Overall, I think  the answer  to this is also 
yes.
RSAs loss adjuster  inspected the walls and roof from ground level. They said the render had 
come away  from the brickwork and arched outwards. They  thought wear and tear to the top 
of the walls and roof had allowed moisture to run down between the render and the 
brickwork. They also said the wall was suffering from lateral restraint  failure. They concluded  
that the damage had been caused gradually  and not as a result of a single storm.
Mr and Mrs Hs builder put up scaffolding  to inspect the problem. He said the render was 
firmly attached to the brickwork. He was able to examine a wall tie which he said was sound  
and firmly attached.  He observed  that the inner and outer walls  had moved  significantly,  
noting that an internal wall was bowing severely. He concluded that the two walls had been 
damaged by storm force winds.
RSA then sent a surveyor  to inspect the damage. They didnt think the movement had begun 
recently but rather had progressed  over time,  particularly during high winds.  They thought  
strong winds would put pressure  on the front of the roof and cause a racking effect to the 
roof structure toward the rear. The surveyor said the roof material  had changed to a heavier 
type a number of years  ago and that additional weight would make the roof more  prone to 
movement. They also said the roof structure  lacked the support of bracing and strapping.
In his complaint  to this service, Mr H has said that his claim isnt for the roof  its for the 
walls. He said the roof tiles hadnt moved  since being replaced  around 20 years  ago. So, he 
didnt agree with the surveyor that there had been any recent  racking problem with the roof. 
In his view the only recent  movement  was to the walls. Mr H was away  on holiday at the time 
of the storm and, upon his return,  noticed  the rear wall was leaning.  He later noticed  the front 
wall had moved as well. He says the walls werent  like this prior to the storm.
I understand Mr H has taken advice from a friend  whos  an engineer. He hasnt provided a 
report from the engineer.  But Mr H has said hes been advised that the construction of the 
walls means  that only a direct force could cause  the amount of movement seen. Therefore, 
he considers the pressure  of a storm force wind is the most likely cause of movement. 
Although I dont doubt what Mr H has said about the advice hes received from an engineer,  
without seeing  the engineers detailed opinion and reasoning myself, I can place  little weight 
on that.
Im not persuaded by the opinion of RSAs loss adjuster either. That opinion  was formed  
based on an inspection  from ground level whereas others were  able to inspect more closely  
from the scaffolding.
Mr Hs builder is clear  in his opinion that the walls have  been damaged  by the direct  
pressure caused  by the storm  winds. Both the builder and RSAs surveyor have recorded 
movement to the walls and Mr H says this was noticed after the storm. This is persuasive  
evidence the damage to the walls was caused  by the storm.
RSAs surveyor says the damage has progressed gradually. The only evidence  Ive seen to 
support that is a photo where the wall meets the roof. Due to movement, theres  a section of 
Ref: DRN24806553mortar at the top of the wall now exposed. The photo shows green moss growing there and 
RSA says this is indicative of a longstanding  issue. However, Mr H has pointed out that the 
photo was taken in May 2018   around eight months  after the storm  and the moss could 
have grown since  then. The area of moss  in the photo appears to be rather small and so I 
dont think this is conclusive evidence  that the walls  had been moving prior to the storm.
RSAs surveyor has said the change of tiles and inadequate support in the roof structure  has 
exacerbated the situation. Although these factors are likely to have been longer term 
problems, they alone arent thought to have caused the damage  to the walls.
Considering all the reports and opinions above,  I think the storm in October 2017 is likely to 
have been the primary  cause  of damage  to the walls. Because of that I think it was unfair for 
RSA to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs H have paid to have  their walls repaired and to make their house safe. To put 
that right, RSA should settle  the claim once Mr and Mrs H have provided  the invoice for the 
work.
Mr H responded. In summary he said:
RSA hadnt  sent a surveyor  to visit the property.  A loss adjuster had visited  initially 
and the second report, by a surveyor, was a desktop review;
Referring to the moss at the top of the wall, he said it could have been blown or 
washed from the roof as there was no way to know  when it was attached;
In 2018 Mr and Mrs H cancelled a holiday. And Mr H spent time managing the work 
carried out to the walls in an effort to minimise costs and ensure the structural  
integrity of the property.  If RSA had accepted the claim,  this is something he could  
have left to them;
Mr H has also spent time disputing the clam and complaint with RSA.
RSA also responded  to make a number of points. In summary they are:
There is no evidential trail to link the damage to Storm Brian and the strong  winds 
experienced in October 2017;
The damage isnt consistent with the impact of heavy winds or typical of storm 
damage;
RSA would expect  heavy loading from strong winds to show signs  of physical failure 
to the internal timbers, such as cracking or splitting. Instead RSA say the timbers 
show signs of racking  and twisting;
Wooden structures can move over time.  The material of the roof was replaced  in 
1987 with one 40% heavier. As a result, the timber structure  has distorted. This was 
compounded by the prevailing winds;
RSAs loss adjusters  inspected the damage from ground level but also from the 
scaffolding in May and internally  to the loft area.  Theyre both qualified  and 
experienced in giving structural assessment;
Both loss adjusters  found the underlying  cause  of the problem was gradual, but 
Storm Brian  didnt help matters;
Mr Hs builder may have a conflict of interest  and may not be qualified to give a 
structural assessment. And his engineer  hasnt  provided a formal report;
The walls may not have been structurally sound  prior to October 2017 and may have 
been suffering  from pre-existing  issues;
Ref: DRN24806554There was moss  growth in the photos taken in January  2018,  which  RSA says looks  
mature and shows significant clumping. The photos in May 2018 show  less moss  
growth, indicating  moss had been  removed as part of the builders preparations.
I reconsidered the complaint, taking into account  the responses of Mr H and RSA. I 
suggested that a fair way to settle  this complaint is for RSA to pay 50% of the cost of the 
work Mr H carried  out, plus interest.
RSA agreed with my suggestion and asked for copies of the invoices  Mr H had paid.
Mr H agreed to a compromise  in order to resolve  the complaint. He suggested RSA should 
pay 80% of the cost,  plus interest. He said Storm Brian  was the primary cause  of the 
movement. He also pointed out that he had invited RSA to inspect the walls whilst  he was 
having the work carried out. RSA didnt  do so but, if they had, Mr H believes a more accurate 
apportionment of the cost of the work  could be made now. He doesnt think  it fair that RSA 
should benefit from not carrying out the inspection.  He provided invoices for all but one 
aspect of the claim.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied its fair for 
RSA to pay 50% of the claim cost, plus interest.  Ill explain why, following the same three 
storm points above.
1. do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to
have happened?
RSA has noted  winds of around  60-70  mph in October 2017 as a result of Storm  Brian in the 
area where  Mr and Mrs H live. And Mr H has provided information to suggest the wind 
speeds may have  reached up to 85 mph. RSA accept winds  of at least  60mph are storm 
intensity and can cause  damage.
This first question is concerned solely with whether there were storm conditions at the 
relevant time. Im satisfied there were. But RSA has suggested theres no evidential  trail 
between those storm conditions and the damage  claimed for.
RSA has questioned the sequence of events and timing leading up to Mr H making the claim 
in January 2018, as that was around  three months after the storm.
Mr H has said he was away at the time of Storm  Brian  and, after he returned,  his neighbour 
alerted him to the movement  of the wall. Mr H says the wall wasnt like that prior to the 
storm. I accept  what Mr H says. And I dont think the exact timing of when  his neighbour 
noticed the damage, when they informed Mr H, and when he made the claim make  a 
difference here. Damage  was noticed soon after a significant storm event and a claim was 
made shortly after that. Im satisfied its reasonable to take the October 2017  storm 
conditions into account when considering this claim.
2. is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
The damage storms typically  cause  depend on the type and strength of the storm. At lower  
windspeeds, damage such as dislodged  roof tiles and chimney  pots is common. As higher 
Ref: DRN24806555speeds are recorded,  more significant  damage, such  as walls moving or collapsing  becomes 
more common as the impact of the wind on structures is greater. The Beaufort Scale notes  
that windspeeds above 55mph can cause structural damage. Although theres disagreement  
about what the cause of movement is, theres  agreement that the walls have moved.
In principle I think the kind of damage  Mr and Mrs H have  claimed  for is consistent  with 
typical storm damage, taking into the account  the storm conditions  experienced at the time.
3. were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
This is the key issue thats in dispute. Ill recap  the main points.
Mr H considers the storm was the main cause of damage.  I dont  think  it would be fair for me 
to place weight  on comments attributed to Mr Hs engineer because  I havent seen anything 
from the engineer  directly.  But Mr H observed a change in the wall after the storm and thats 
not in dispute. Mr Hs builder said the walls  were  damaged by the storm. I have no reason to 
doubt the independence of the builders opinion. But the information provided by the builder 
doesnt provide  much  in the way of detail to explain the reasoning  for his opinion.
RSAs two inspections  were carried out by loss adjusters and they say theyre  qualified  and 
experienced in providing structural assessments. I dont doubt that. When  I consider 
information provided by experts, I consider not just their qualification and experience  but also 
what exactly it is theyve said.
RSA think the damage has been  a gradually developing problem, caused primarily by the 
change of roof material in 1987 and a lack of support or bracing in the roof structure.
There was also mention of a problem with the render in the first loss adjusters  report,  where 
the inspection  was carried out from ground level. Subsequent, closer inspections  of the 
damage havent reached the same conclusion.  So, I think the render has been  ruled  out as a 
cause of the problem and I havent considered that point further.
There has also been mention of the moss growth. Ive re-considered this point, looking at the 
reports, photos, and considering what RSA have said in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, Im still not convinced the moss  is conclusive  evidence.
In RSAs May report they mentioned the moss growth observed  at the time and said it was 
indicative of a longstanding issue. In response Mr H pointed out that the photos  had been 
taken many months after the damage  and the moss could have grown in that time. I agreed 
with him that the amount of moss seen in the May photos was small and didnt suggest a 
long-term problem in my view.
RSA has now pointed  me to photos  taken in January which  show more moss  growth  than 
the May photos.  I agree with RSA that the most likely reason for there being less moss  by 
May is cleaning by the builder in preparation for repairs. But that doesnt change my opinion  
that the moss observed in May isnt indicative of a long-term problem as RSA said in the 
report. And although  there was more  moss  in the January photos, the report  written at that 
time didnt  mention the moss as a reason for concluding the damage was gradual.
I expect there was moss on the wall and roof prior to October and it remained there 
afterwards. As RSA point  out, there is clumping in the January photos, which indicates the 
Ref: DRN24806556moss is more mature. But establishing  there  was moss on the wall and roof doesnt, in my 
opinion, establish  whether  the damage  was caused  by the storm or a longer-term problem.
Turning back to RSAs  main points, they amount to broadly the same  thing  that there  was 
some existing weakness and/or problem in the structure of the walls  and roof that had been 
causing gradual movement over time,  perhaps going as far back  as the late 1980s when the 
roof material  was changed. RSA and its loss adjusters have explained why they think the 
heavier material would have caused  additional  stress within  the roof structure and walls over 
the years  prior to the storm.  Based on that I agree its possible there  was some degree of 
movement prior to the storm.
RSA and its loss adjusters have referred  to their observations about the roof construction as 
the underlying  cause  or factors which have exacerbated  the problem, as well as noting 
that Storm  Brian would  have made  any movement worse.
I think the point  RSA is trying to make is that there  was some  existing movement,  which 
increased after the storm. And, because there  was some movement prior to the storm, the 
storm isnt the sole cause of the problem  its merely a continuation  or extension of the 
existing problems. The other way of looking at it is to say that, were it not for the storm, there  
wouldnt have been as much movement.
From Mr Hs point  of view, movement clearly occurred after the storm. Its possible there was 
movement prior to that which  was gradual  and minor  enough to go unnoticed. But for the 
movement to have  become  noticeable from afar, there must have been  a significant change  
in the wall following  the storm.
Taking all the evidence into account, Im satisfied some of the damage has been caused by 
the storm  and this damage is covered by the policy. But I think  its likely that some  of the 
damage has been caused by other  factors  which  arent  covered  by the policy.  The ideal 
resolution would be for RSA to separate out the cost of repairing the storm damage and pay 
that amount.  As the damage has long been  repaired and were limited to the information  
available in the reports, I think it would  be difficult and impractical to try to settle  the 
complaint this way. Instead, I think RSA should pay 50% of the cost of the work.
I recognise Mr Hs concern that if RSA had inspected the property during repairs, they may 
have found reason to pay more than 50% of the cost.  But its also possible they may have  
found reason  to pay less. So, I think its a fair compromise for both Mr H and RSA.
Mr H has valued his claim at £8,781.04  and provided invoices to evidence this expenditure 
for all but one aspect  of the claim  the skip cost.  As hes been  able to show  evidence  for the 
other invoices, most of which  are significantly more expensive, and given that a skip was 
likely to have been required  to complete the work, I think its fair to include that cost.
To settle  the complaint, RSA should  pay 50% of the cost of Mr Hs claim, which is £4,390.52. 
RSA is entitled  to deduct the applicable policy excess and it should also add interest. Mr H 
paid a number  of different invoices on different dates. For simplicity I think  RSA should pay 
interest on the claim settlement from 1 June  2018.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr H said that dealing with the claim had caused 
him avoidable inconvenience.  If RSA had agreed to settle the claim along the lines Ive 
outlined when it should have done,  Mr H would have had the claim payment sooner. The 
addition of interest is compensation for being without the money  longer than he should have 
Ref: DRN24806557been. I think the claim is likely to have been settled by way of a cash payment as RSA would 
have been contributing 50% toward the cost of the work. So even if RSA had reached a fair 
settlement when it should have done,  I think Mr H would have had to arrange the work 
himself. For that reason,  I dont think RSA needs to pay compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons  above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Pay £4,390.52  to settle the claim, subject to deduction of the policy  excess,
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the claim settlement, from 1 June  2018  to the 
date this amount  is paid. *
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much has been taken
off. Royal  & Sun Alliance Plc should give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2480655