K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt accept a payment hed tried to transfer 
into his foreign currency account.
background
Mr S attempted to transfer £100  from his current account (held  with another bank) to his 
Barclays Australian dollar account. Mr S says he did this as a trial, prior to transferring a 
more substantial sum, because the exchange rate for Australian dollars was at a high for the 
year.
Mr S says that when  he checked a few days later, the money hadnt gone through.  He says 
he contacted Barclays who tried to transfer  him to its international division who did not pick 
up after 40 minutes.  He then contacted the other bank who tried to help him transfer the 
money online and over the phone but his Barclays  account details were rejected.
Barclays said it didnt reject the payment  the money hadnt reached it. It told Mr S the 
account was valid and there  were no markers on it that could potentially stop it from 
receiving payments. It offered Mr S £25 because of the length of time hed spent on the 
phone and on hold.  But Mr S decided not to accept this. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and requested information from both banks. He 
concluded that Barclays hadnt  done  anything wrong. He said the transfer had been 
attempted using the faster payment scheme   which only works from UK sterling accounts to 
UK sterling  accounts.  There  was no evidence that Barclays had ever received  the funds or 
had given him wrong information. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators  opinion. He said Barclays  knew  from the outset what  
he was trying to do and it should have identified the reason  for the payment not going 
through much sooner.
Mr S has also made us aware  of further  issues hes had with transferring money into his 
Barclays Australian dollar account since he brought his complaint to us.
As Mr S didnt agree  with our investigators view, his complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels very frustrated  that he wasnt able to transfer  his money when  he 
wanted to. But having considered the information from both banks, it appears that the 
payment didnt go through because Mr S had attempted to make the payment through  the 
faster payment  scheme  which only works for payments made between UK sterling 
accounts. And, importantly, I dont  think Barclays knew  or should have known  that this 
was the problem. 
Ref: DRN28243422Ive listened to recordings of Mr Ss telephone  conversations with Barclays. Its staff told him 
a number of times that he should  get in touch with the sending  bank to find out what the 
problem was with making the transfer. It hadnt received the payment, and there was no 
reason for the payment to be blocked. The account records Ive seen satisfy me that this 
was right.  
Im satisfied that the information Barclays gave Mr S was correct. I dont think  its reasonable 
to expect Barclays to have known why the payment wasnt going through.  It didnt have the 
information the other bank has since provided at the time. It wasnt Barclays responsibility to 
explain how Mr S needed  to make the payment through another banks  system.  And it did 
suggest he speak  to the other bank on several  occasions. 
 
I can also see that Barclays provided Mr S with the information he needed  to make 
electronic transfers  into his foreign  currency account  when  he opened it. It sent him a 
welcome letter which explained that his SWIFT  BIC, IBAN and bank address needed to be 
used. 
Barclays has apologised to Mr S for the time he spent  on the phone and on hold. And I think  
its offer of £25 for this was fair. 
Mr S has made us aware  that hes had further issues with transferring money into his 
Barclays Australian Dollar  account  since he brought his complaint to us. He says it has a 
bearing on this complaint  because Barclays have now said the other  bank could have 
transferred funds directly  into the Australian Dollar  account. 
From the information Ive reviewed for this complaint (including the call recordings), Im 
satisfied the information Barclays gave him was correct. During our investigation Barclays 
told us the money  couldnt be transferred into his Australian dollar account using the faster 
payment scheme.  It didnt  say it couldnt  be transferred directly from his account with the 
other bank  at all. And as Ive said, it wasnt Barclays responsibility  to explain how Mr S 
needed to make the payment using  another banks system. So Mr Ss comments about this 
havent made a difference to my findings for this complaint.
Mr Ss more  recent  concerns are a separate matter and will need to be dealt with as a new 
complaint. Weve asked  Barclays to respond  directly to Mr S regarding these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2824342