K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  wont refund a payment that he didnt  make  or authorise.
background
In March 2018 Mr K booked flights for a holiday he planned to take in late July that year.  He 
says that he made a number of enquiries about  possible  accommodation at the time but 
didnt make any firm bookings.  In July 2018 he received  an email, from a company unknown 
to him, to tell him that it would be taking payment for his hotel booking. He immediately tried 
to cancel this.
Mr K says that MBNA  told him that it couldnt stop the payment but he wouldnt be liable for 
it. It then wrote to him to say that it considered  he made the booking and provided his 
payment details so it wouldnt  refund the payment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld because she thought  that Mr K 
had authorised the payment.
Mr K disagreed. In summary, he said that MBNA  had told him he wouldnt be held liable for 
the payment.  He also said that he hadnt  disputed the payment as fraud but that the 
company should  never have taken the payment because he didnt  make  a confirmed 
booking. MBNA then told him it was withdrawing his credit  facility.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The basic  position  is that MBNA  can hold Mr K liable for the disputed  payment if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
Mr K says he didnt book this accommodation  and is seeking a refund. So my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or I not I think  Mr K authorised the transaction. 
For me to be satisfied that the payment was authorised,  I first need to determine whether it 
was authenticated.
Authentication is the use of a procedure  by which a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im seen the 
electronic records from MBNA  which show the correct card details were  used. Based on this, 
Im satisfied the payment was authenticated. So I now need  to consider whether Mr K 
consented to the payment being made.
In early March 2018 Mr K booked flights for a weeks holiday at the end of July. He says that 
he looked at a number of websites at that time for a suitable hotel but he didnt make any 
firm booking. He later decided to book to stay for two nights in the city he was flying  into and 
five nights at hotel in a different area.
Ten days  before he was due to leave  for his holiday  Mr K received an email  from a company 
that he says he didnt know. It confirmed his reservation for seven nights at an apartment 
and that payment had already been made. Mr K immediately emailed the company to say he 
had no knowledge  of the booking and asked for a refund. 
Ref: DRN20536192Mr K also called MBNA to ask it to stop the payment. He says MBNA told him that it wasnt 
able to stop the payment  and it would have to go through. And Mr K says MBNA told him he 
wouldnt be held liable for it and would receive a refund.
I have carefully looked at all that has happened here. I see that the reservation that was 
made was for the exact dates that Mr K planned to be away  and for the same number of 
people that was in his party. The booking was in Mr Ks name and the email address and 
mobile phone number given matched Mr Ks. The IP address from which  the booking was 
made was the same  as one that Mr K has used for his online banking. Given this, I dont 
consider that the booking was made by an unknown third party.
I see that the company in question sent an email to Mr K in March 2018  to confirm his 
reservation. It was sent to Mr Ks correct email  address. Mr K suggests that he didnt receive 
this, but Im satisfied that it was sent in March, which was when Mr K says that he was 
looking for possible accommodation. The email set out when payment would be taken (July  
2018) and the companys  cancellation policy. This said that no refund would be made  once 
the first payment had been made. Mr Ks genuine card details were  given to the company at 
the time this reservation was made.
Mr K says that he never  made  this booking and was only making enquiries. He thinks that 
one of the sites might  have passed his information  onto the company that took the payment. 
Im not persuaded by this argument. Mr Ks genuine personal details were  entered and the 
dates matched his intended holiday.  If Mr K was only making enquiries then I dont think  he 
would have entered his card details. And whilst I cant say why Mr K didnt receive  the email 
or whether it simply went into his junk file and was overlooked,  from all the evidence,  I 
consider it is more likely  than not that Mr K did make  a reservation in March 2018. 
On the due date of payment in July 2018  Mr K received another  email confirming his 
reservation and telling  him that his payment had been made  successfully. At that stage, it 
was too late to cancel his booking with the company to receive a refund.
Although Mr K has said he contacted MBNA  to see if it could help about  a week  before the 
payment was due I find the payment had been requested  the day before Mr K contacted  it so 
he was already too late. MBNA told him that it wasnt able to stop the payment. 
I consider that MBNA investigated whether the payment was fraudulent because Mr K had 
said he didnt recognise the name of the company.  But having  raised  a dispute it decided 
that Mr K had either made or authorised the payment.  I have also considered  whether MBNA  
could have tried to recover the money  from the merchant, but Im satisfied  that it couldnt.
Mr K has said that MBNA told him he wouldnt be accountable for this payment. I have 
carefully checked all MBNAs records and I find that MBNA did tell Mr K that it couldnt stop 
the payment but could only investigate it as fraud.  Im not persuaded that MBNA told Mr K 
that it would  refund the payment.
Following its investigation  MBNA decided to withdraw Mr Ks credit facility.  Credit card 
providers are entitled to decide for themselves whether  or not to do business  and if so on 
what terms. This is the legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement, with which  I cannot  
properly interfere  though it is required to treat Mr K fairly. MBNA wrote to Mr K to tell him 
its decision and said that the account will close once Mr K has cleared the outstanding 
Ref: DRN20536193balance. I consider this was in accordance with the account terms and conditions  so Im not 
persuaded that MBNAs actions were  unfair.  
For the avoidance of doubt my consideration of this matter is limited to Mr Ks complaint 
about the disputed transaction. The issue which he has raised later  about whether this 
matter has had any impact on his credit rating  may be subject  of a separate  complaint, but 
it is not appropriate for me to comment  on it here as MBNA has not had the opportunity to 
respond.
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed  but I find that MBNA has provided  sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that it may hold Mr K liable for this transaction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2053619