K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
The parties agree that the cover  was sold in a Lloyds branch.  
The policy was set up for Mr L only and provided cover for accident, sickness, and 
unemployment, subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £307.58 a month 
towards Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage repayments in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  
it cost in the region of £15.31 a month.  
At the point of sale, Mr L worked in quality control.  He told us he was entitled  to less than 
three months full pay if he was off sick from work and he didnt have any other means of 
meeting his mortgage repayments if he was off sick or if he lost his job. He did tell us that 
hed have been entitled to a death  in service payment from his employer and that would 
have paid out in the unfortunate  event of his death.  
Mr L said he had been diagnosed with alopecia, which was stress-induced.  The diagnosis 
was ostensibly  made  in 1990. I have not been made aware  that Mr L still had that medical  
condition when the cover  was sold or that he had taken any time off work because of it.   
I have been provided with some information  about  Mrs Ls health, but as she was not 
covered by the policy, this would not have affected Mr Ls ability  to claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ls representatives  believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs L and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN25356172The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN25356173The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs L 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN25356174Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
It was not specifically argued that Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs L they had a choice about 
taking the cover out. But I do note that it was argued the PPI was included  as part of a 
package alongside  the mortgage. However, I think its most  likely that there was a discussion 
around the PPI policy at the relevant time. I say this because the cover was for Mr L only 
and so its most likely  there  was a conversation about how Mr and Mrs L wanted their cover 
to be set up. So I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have thought it came alongside the 
mortgage if they had to make decisions about how the policy should be set up.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ive treated this as an advised sale because the cover would have been sold when  Lloyds 
was gathering a lot of information  about  Mr and Mrs Ls personal circumstances. I think  they 
could well have reasonably concluded  that Lloyds was recommending PPI after taking 
account of those circumstances. This means  Lloyds  had to advise Mr and Mrs L with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs L. I do note that the cover  was sold almost 25 years ago 
and so it would be difficult for Mr and Mrs L to remember  precisely  what happened such  a 
long time ago. The adviser had some limited information about Mr and Mrs Ls financial 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Mr L would have  been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations  which 
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet Mr and Mrs Ls needs. For example, there is 
nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr L had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ls ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr L 
not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay 
Ref: DRN25356175entitlement they told us about.  The sick pay would have lasted for less than three 
months, whereas  the PPI would  have  covered them  for up to 12 months. I have  
noted what Mr and Mrs L said about Mr Ls death  in service benefit, but as I said 
above, that cover would have only paid out in the event of his death. No payment 
would have been made if he was off sick or made  redundant. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr and Mrs L told us that 
Mr L had alopecia.  I havent been made aware that hed had to take any time off work 
because of this condition, so I dont think it would have affected their decision to take 
PPI out. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ls circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L was given a broad description of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr L 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would  have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs L agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ls. Ive considered  these  carefully and summarised  them as:
Ref: DRN25356176-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
L. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs L suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or not Mr 
and Mrs L would have  still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs L would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr L 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN25356177As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
they applied it. Having said that, it seems  likely  they would have been  told the cost before 
the policy started and they paid for it for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly 
at odds with their expectations  at the point  of sale, its possible they might  have raised  that 
with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have  found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs L would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ls 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to a disability  that happened during the 12 
months before the start date of the policy and for which Mr L had consulted or 
received treatment from a medical practitioner;  
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr L be totally 
unable to work; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  Mr L was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr L says he had a medical condition in 
1990, it is not clear  whether that condition was still enduring when  the cover  was sold and in 
any event, he doesnt appear to have needed  time off work because  of it. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think Mr and Mrs L had some good  reasons to take the policy 
out.
Ref: DRN25356178I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case, the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions. While this exclusion and limitation might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from 
taking out the policy,  as I said above, I cant say Mr L had a medical condition in 1990 and if 
he did, he didnt appear to have had any time off work because of it. On that basis,  I think 
they still had some good reasons to take it out.
To make a disability claim, Mr L needed to be totally unable  to work. I dont think  this is likely 
to be too different to what he would have expected to make a claim. So it seems  unlikely 
they would  have thought  they would have  been able to make  a successful claim if Mr L was 
still working. 
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs L that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr L would have  received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs L would still have thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr L be unable  to work in the circumstances  
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable,  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mr L was made redundant, or was unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs L would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs L found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN25356179Mr and Mrs L believes the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation,  as that would put them in a better  
position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Lloyds  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535617