K820x#14complaint
Sesame Limited did a past business  review on advice given in 2010 by their appointed  
representatives LEBC Group Ltd in relation to deferred benefits held in Mr Ws occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS). Mr W complains  that he didnt receive any compensation following 
the review.
background
Mr W had deferred benefits  in an OPS. His employer (H) was looking to reduce the liabilities 
in its pension scheme, so they wrote to Mr W on 15 March 2010 offering to enhance  his 
pension transfer  value by £14,920 if he transferred  his benefits to a personal pension.   
The enhancement  could  either be used to top up the transfer value of the pension or could  
be paid as a cash  lump sum (subject to income tax and national  insurance deductions).  
Mr W was also given the option to keep his benefits in the OPS. He was recommended  to 
seek independent financial advice before making his decision.
H appointed LEBC  to offer their advice services  to its employees.  Mr W told us that LEBC 
came to an initial group meeting. Mr W cant remember what  exactly  was discussed during 
this meeting. All he can remember that there was a cash incentive offered by his employer.
LEBC compared Mr Ws benefits  in the OPS with benefit projections  in a personal  pension. 
Their recommendation  to Mr W was to keep his benefits in his OPS and not take up the offer 
of a cash lump sum. In their recommendation letter of 18 May 2010 to Mr W they said:
Based on the offer received from H, you have  indicated  that it is your intention to
elect to transfer your benefits from H in order to obtain the enhancement  as a cash
payment to you. This is the sole reason for your desire to transfer your benefits.  I would
strongly encourage you not to transfer for these reasons, as it will have a detrimental effect
on your pension benefits at retirement. 
And
 It is important to remember that if you transfer  your benefits out of a final salary pension
scheme you lose the guaranteed pension  at retirement and the PPF protection, and in
return, you will receive a pension that is subject  to investment returns  and therefore has no
underlying guarantees. This is one of the reasons  why I have recommended  that you do
not transfer your benefits out of the H final salary scheme.
And
The growth rate required  to achieve  critical yield required for the enhanced transfer
value is possible,  however the growth  rate required  to match  the benefits if you take the
reduced transfer value  and enhancement as a cash payment  is completely
unachievable and will result in a reduced  pension  entitlement in retirement.
My recommendation is to retain your benefits  in the H final salary scheme and
not to transfer  and take the enhancement  as cash payment.  Your pension benefits  in
the H final salary scheme represent a significant proportion  of your pension
income in retirement  and you will be worse off financially in retirement  as a result of the
transfer.
Ref: DRN26426092Mr W then wrote a letter  to LEBC on 24 May 2010  saying  he still wanted to go ahead  with 
the transfer. He wrote:
I understand that the financial  advice  I have been  given today by LEBC  group. I wish to still 
take the offer from H staff retirement scheme dated 15 March 2010. I was advised
to not take this offer but still wish to proceed.
The transfer went ahead and Mr W received a cash lump sum of £14,920 (before tax). His 
pension was transferred  to a personal pension  with Legal and General (L&G) and invested 
into a managed lifestyle fund.
In 2018, Sesame conducted  a past business  review of the advice provided to Mr W by 
LEBC. As part of this they sent Mr W a questionnaire  to complete to obtain his recollections 
about what happened at the time of the transfer.
After reviewing Mr Ws case Sesame concluded  that the advice by LEBC  in 2010  not to 
transfer from the OPS  was suitable  advice. Mr W instructed LEBC  to go ahead with the 
transfer against their advice. So they didnt take responsibility for any potential losses  due to 
the transfer from the OPS to a personal  pension.
However, they admitted that the managed lifestyle fund in his personal pension didnt match 
Mr Ws attitude to risk at the time. He should  have invested in lower risk funds. Sesame 
compared the value of Mr Ws benefits in his personal pension in the manged  lifestyle fund 
with a benchmark of investments which represent a lower risk. They  found  that his 
investments in the managed lifestyle fund had performed better than the benchmark  by 
around £15,000. So even though Mr W should  have been invested in lower  risk funds,  he 
hasnt lost out financially as a result. Sesame  recommended Mr W to seek financial advice to 
review his pension  going forward to ensure his pension is invested in line with his financial 
objectives now.
Mr W says the questionnaire he was given by Sesame  was unfair and designed to catch  him 
out. He said lots of his colleagues had received compensation  for transferring away  from the 
OPS. He also questioned the pension values used by Sesame in their redress calculation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. She thought  Mr W understood he was going  
against the advice given  by LEBC at the time and that he was motivated  to transfer by the 
cash lump sum offered by his employer.  She agreed  with Sesame that Mr W should have 
been invested in lower  risk funds, but thought  Sesames redress  method of comparing his 
existing pension value  with a lower risk benchmark  was fair. 
Mr W didnt agree, so his complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26426093Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint broadly for the same reasons  as the 
investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mr W and Ill explain my reasoning in more 
detail below.
Transfer benefits from OPS
Based on the documents Ive seen I think LEBCs recommendation to Mr W not to transfer  
was clear. The recommendation letter  set out the reasons why Mr W should  keep  his OPS 
benefits and that he would be worse  off financially if he took the cash  lump sum and 
transferred his pension.  
Unfortunately, Sesame couldnt provide  much  information on what happened  after the 
recommendation letter was sent.  Our investigator asked Mr W about the letter he sent on 24 
May and he told us that the adviser  said he needed  to write a letter himself if he still wanted 
to go ahead against the advice. And this is what  Mr W did. He said:
At the time I was advised not to transfer  but there  was a big pot of money put in front of
me to do so. At the time the money seemed the better  option.
And in the questionnaire Mr W filled out during the review by Sesame, he said that the cash  
incentive swayed  my decision to go ahead and we had never been given such  a large 
amount of money,  so we went  ahead.
In the questionnaire  he was asked whether he had made up his mind to take the cash before 
his first contact with the LEBC  adviser  to which  he answered yes. He said: the large 
amount of money  on the table made my mind  up. Mr W thinks this question was unfair  and 
states that of course he only made  his decision after speaking  to the adviser  as until then he 
didnt know what the offer was. He believes if he had answered  no to this question,  he 
would have been compensated. 
I dont think the questions asked in the questionnaire were unfair or unreasonable. Sesame 
asked appropriate  and reasonable questions to find out why Mr W went  against their advice 
not to transfer  his OPS benefits.
As described  above Mr W was informed  about  the cash sum offer directly  by his employer in 
March 2010 which was before LEBC got involved. Therefore I think its quite possible that 
Mr W had decided to take the cash before he received any advice. However, Ive based my 
decision not just on Mr Ws answer  to this one particular question. Whether  Mr W made  his 
final decision  to take the cash before or after he spoke to LEBC, I think what matters  is that 
he was given a clear recommendation not to transfer and reasons why he should stay in his 
OPS. However, based on the information Ive seen its clear to me he was attracted by the 
cash lump sum on offer and he consciously decided to go ahead anyway. 
Ive considered whether LEBC should have  refused  to assist  Mr W with the transfer. 
However, the regulator doesnt require businesses to generally refuse acting  for clients after 
a negative recommendation. Its possible  for clients to proceed on an insistent client basis. 
LEBC did have to act in the clients best interest.  However, I dont think this necessarily 
always means refusing  to act altogether. I think LEBC took reasonable steps to ensure  Mr W 
understood what he was doing. As I said before I think the recommendation letter  clearly  
described the reasons why Mr W shouldnt take up the offer and what guarantees he was 
giving up when transferring from his OPS.  And in his letter,  which he wrote himself,  he 
confirmed he understood that the advice  was not to transfer. Mr W still wanted to proceed 
Ref: DRN26426094despite LEBCs recommendation not to do so and I dont  think  in the circumstances of this 
case they acted  unfairly  by helping him to execute  his wishes.  
I appreciate Mr W now regrets his decision  to take the cash offer and transfer out of his 
OPS. However, LEBC warned Mr W that he would be worse off in retirement  if he decided to 
transfer out of his OPS. And so I dont think Sesame is responsible for the impact  of Mr Ws 
decision to proceed  against LEBCs advice. Therefore  they dont need to compensate  him 
for any losses that result from the transferring out of his OPS.
Advice to invest into managed lifestyle profile in a personal pension with L&G.
Mr W says that after he had confirmed  he wanted to go ahead with the transfer, the adviser 
told him the pension  would  be transferred into a personal pension  with L&G. Mr W says he 
would have liked to transfer into a money purchase pension  he already held, however was 
told by the adviser  this wasnt possible  and the L&G plan was a good option.  He also said he 
wasnt told anything about the risks of the funds  he was being transferred into.
Ive seen the L&G application  form and it shows that Mr W received advice from LEBC.  This 
means they had to make sure the personal  pension  and how his funds  were  invested was 
suitable for him. 
Mr Ws OPS contained protected rights  benefits.  Sesame has provided evidence which 
indicates that Mr Ws existing money purchase pension couldnt  accept a transfer of 
protected rights. So Im satisfied Mr W needed  a new pension  plan to accept the transfer 
from his OPS. And I cant see any evident reasons  why the L&G plan was unsuitable. 
However, its unclear  how LEBC assessed Mr Ws risk profile at the time to decide that he 
should be invested in a managed lifestyle profile  which consisted largely of equities.  
At the time of transfer, Mr W was 39 years  old and only had limited  savings. He had no other 
investments and this pension  represented  a large  proportion of his retirement  provisions.  As 
he was still quite a few years away from retirement, I think  he was able to take some  risk 
with his pension.  However, I agree with Sesame  that the fund he was invested  in presented 
more risk than was suitable  in Mr Ws circumstances.
Sesames redress offer compares -as much as possible-  what  position Mr W would be in if 
he had been advised to invest into lower  risk funds in the personal  pension. They used a 
benchmark which is the same as this service would recommend in such circumstances, so I 
think its fair.
Their calculations showed he didnt suffer any financial  loss as his funds in the managed  
lifestyle profile performed  better than the benchmark representing lower risk. Ive seen the 
pension valuation from L&G which Sesame requested  to calculate any potential redress. It 
shows Mr Ss pension  value on 20 June 2018 as £76,061.04.  Sesame says they verbally  
asked L&G for updated  valuations on 16 August 2018 when they finalised the loss 
calculations. The value  used  was £76,420.76 which compared to £61,337.56 as value of the 
benchmark which showed Mr W gained  over £15,000 by being invested  into riskier funds. 
However, there was a delay issuing the outcome  of their review  to Mr W until January 2019. 
Sesame said they didnt revisit the calculations but said whilst the markets had dipped they 
didnt consider it likely that values had decreased  enough to wipe out the calculated  large 
gain of over £15,000.   
Ref: DRN26426095Ive asked Sesame  to provide updated  calculations using valuations from 29 January 2019 
when the review outcome was sent to Mr W. Ive seen evidence which shows L&G 
confirmed Mr Ws pension value on 29 January 2019 was £71,203.37 whereas the value  of 
the benchmark was £60,156.40. Looking at the updated figured Im satisfied that Mr W has 
not suffered  any financial loss by being  placed  in funds that were too high risk for him.
Mr W says the riskier funds couldve  led him to losing out. However, I dont think its 
reasonable to compensate him for any losses that he in fact hasnt incurred.
I appreciate that Mr W thinks his personal  pension value should be compared to the benefits 
in his OPS he gave up. But as explained above I wont hold Sesame responsible  for any 
potential losses from the OPS transfer.  And I think the redress method Sesame used for the 
unsuitable funds  within the personal pension is fair. As Mr W hasnt suffered any financial 
loss in this respect,  Sesame doesnt have to pay Mr W any compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and wont request Sesame Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2642609